ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. [[PHONE RINGING]] There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. One message: In a letter, in a letter. No 602-00-9 of 4 February 2016, I am informed of Decision No 63 of the Council of Ministers of 2016, which withdrawn the draft law with a proposal to the National Assembly for ratification of the Constitutional Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules and the Certificate of Contribution of donors under Annex No 2 of the General Agreement establishing the European Union Emergency Trust Fund for Stability and dealing with the root causes of illegal migration and displaced persons in Africa and its internal rules of procedure submitted for consideration by the National Assembly. Let's continue with: LAW PROJECT FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE CONVENTION FOR INDEPENDENT ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION IN TAX QUESTIONS CHANGED BY THE REGION OF THE CONVENTION FOR IMPLEMENTING ADMINISTRATIVE COOPERATION IN DANISH QUESTIONS IN POWERS ON 1 june 2011 I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. On yesterday we met the Commission reports and the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in the debate? I won't. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, which entered into force on 1 June 2011. Vote 116 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure for the bill to be reviewed and voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u3	A reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on the procedural proposal. They voted 121 MPs: 119, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Second reading report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u4	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Administration cooperation in tax matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, entered into force on 1 June 2011. Art. 1. It ratifies the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, which entered into force on 1 June 2011, and signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 26 October 2015 in Strasbourg. Art. 2. Determine the existing taxes to which the Convention under Article will apply. 1 according to Annex A to this Law. Annex A to this Law: "Bulgaria" ratified the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, with the following notifications:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u5	Statements? I won't. I put in second reading the reported bill together with Annex A, which is an integral part of it. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted unanimously, and then at second reading the ratification together with Annex A to it. Coming up next: LEGISLATION FOR THE RATEFICING OF THE MULTILATED AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE COMPETENT AUTHORITIES FOR AUTOMICAL CHANGE OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNT INFORMATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. We're listening, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u6	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of information on financial accounts No 502-02-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. At a regular meeting held on 14 January 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information, No 502-02-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015. The bill with importer The Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Feizy Bekir. The Agreement constitutes a multilateral framework on the basis of which all the signatory jurisdictions will be able to exchange bilateral information on financial accounts after submitting a subsequent notification under art. 7 of the Agreement. It was originally signed by 51 jurisdictions on 29 October 2014 in Berlin at a meeting of the Global Forum for Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, currently the total number of jurisdictions that have signed the Agreement is 78. The entry into force with regard to the Republic of Bulgaria of this international treaty will enable our country to participate in the common fight against cross-border tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud, will allow it to participate in the global automatic exchange of financial information and will provide the opportunity to obtain information on financial accounts of Bulgarian locals and foreign entities controlled by Bulgarian locals in the countries that have joined the agreement, among which are jurisdictions with preferential tax regimes. The agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the bill followed a vote, which ended with the following results: 17 votes for The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a Draft Draft for ratification of the Multilateral Agreement between the competent authorities for automatic exchange of information on financial accounts No 502-02-42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u7	There is a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u8	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a bill for the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information submitted by Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015 At a regular meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 October 2015 in Berlin. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Finance Minister Fezi Bekir. The Agreement constitutes a multilateral framework on the basis of which all signatory jurisdictions will be able to exchange bilateral information on financial accounts after submitting a subsequent notification under art. 7 of the Agreement. So far, 78 countries have joined the Agreement. The entry into force with regard to the Republic of Bulgaria of this international treaty will enable our country to participate in the common fight against cross-border tax evasion, tax evasion and tax fraud. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the Agreement will allow the country to participate in the global automatic exchange of financial information and will provide an opportunity to obtain information on the financial accounts of Bulgarian locals and foreign entities controlled by Bulgarian locals in the countries that have joined the Agreement, including jurisdictions with preferential tax regimes. The accession of the Republic of Bulgaria to the international initiatives of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to combat tax evasion through automatic exchange of information for tax purposes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this regard, the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code published in the Official Journal of the State on 4 December 2015 was also adopted. By the Law, the jurisdictions must have the necessary national legislation to implement the General Standard for the provision of information, thus being obliged financial institutions to collect and provide information about the accounts of foreign persons to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency. The agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No 502 02 42, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u9	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to share their opinion on the occasion of the ratification bill discussed? I won't. I put to the first vote the Bill on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information. We vote. They voted 121 MPs: 120, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, I will ask for a procedure.. The draft will also be dealt with in a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u11	Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u12	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information A single member. Ratification of the multilateral agreement between the competent authorities on automatic exchange of financial account information signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 29 October 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the second vote the Law of ratification. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. Unanimously adopted the bill and the second vote. Coming up next: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CLOSED AND ARMED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 14 January 2016. Mr. Iankov, report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 6 November 2015, the Council of Ministers submitted a report to the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, adopted by the Council of Ministers on the first vote on 14 January 2016. The Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is amended and supplemented by the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. According to § 1 "A proposal from the National Representative Angel Naydenov, made according to the order art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, i.e. 1 the words "Member State of the State of State of the Member State of State of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the European Union' shall be replaced by "Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the Member State of the European Union'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u15	That's it. Colleagues, speeches on the name of the Law, § 1 in the version of the Commission on the supported proposals of Mr. Naydenov and a group of MPs and under § 2 by importer supported by the Commission? Are there any statements on both paragraphs and the name of the Law? I won't. We vote. They voted 110 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u16	Before I proceed, Madam President, allow me to propose a procedure for admission to Mrs. Desislava Yosifova's Chamber of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u17	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. They voted 111 MPs: 108, against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u18	Paragraph 3. Proposal of the MPs Valeri Jablyanov, Emil Raynov, Dimitar Dubov, Atanas Merdjanov, Georgi Bojinov, Ivan Ibrishimov, Georgi Gokov, Manol Genov, Georgi Anastasov, Zhelyo Boychev, Atanas Zafirov, Krasimir Karakachanov and Dragomir Stoynev: "Paragraph 3, Art. 130, para. 1 to be amended as follows: The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Bulgarian Army independently or jointly with the armed forces of allied states that do not have a common state border with the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: "1." Paragraph 3, art. 130, para. 1 to be amended as follows: The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Bulgarian Army independently or jointly with the armed forces of allied states, members of NATO and the European Union at the same time. 2. In paragraph 3, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 130, para. 2, p. 2 drops out of cases under point 2. The Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, take urgent action if necessary. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Svetlin Tanchev, Georgi Kovachev, Stefan Kenov and Hristo Todorov: "1." Paragraph 3, art. 130, para. 1 to be amended as follows: The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Bulgarian Army independently or jointly with the armed forces of the Allied States subordinate to the Bulgarian Army. 2. Paragraph 3, art. 130, para. 2, p. 1 to be amended as follows: Under conditions and in order laid down in an international treaty guaranteeing the command role of the Bulgarian Army. 3. Paragraph 3, art. 130, para. 3 to be amended as follows: The Joint Action under para. 2, p. 2 with NATO member states is implemented within NATO's Integrated Air and missile defence system (NATINAMDS) in accordance with the applicable NATO documents, taking into account the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ianko Iankov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 130 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end by itself or jointly with the Allied States. 2. A new para is being created. 2 and 3: The actions under para 2 shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 1 shall be carried out: 1. under conditions and by order laid down in an international treaty; 2. aside from the cases referred to in paragraph 2. 1 or, where necessary, urgent action - under conditions and by order laid down by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. (3) Joint actions under para. 2, p. 2 with NATO member states are implemented within NATO's Integrated Air and missile defence system (NATINAMDS) under applicable NATO documents. 3. Previously on AMC's... 2 and 3 become respectively. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u19	Colleagues, I ask the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take charge of this matter to make an application. Mr. Zafirov was first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are adopting at second reading a law that caused a lot of tension in Bulgarian society and, unfortunately, raised many more questions than solutions. With this proposal, colleagues, we want to reduce with at least one of the fears of the Bulgarians. The Bulgarian is very scared, honourable colleagues. He is afraid for his work, for his health, for his home and property, for the future of his children. Now you have added one more fear to the one about freedom and our national sovereignty. How blind do you have to be, how deaf do you have to be, so that you don't hear the voice of your own people saying, "Don't do it! "! [[Comments from GERB and RB.]] How much do you have to be double-faced or you don't know your own history to put under a common denominator the planes of countries that you yourself defined as potential aggressors and rematchists to Bulgaria just 25 years ago?! What's more, you drew and played war on them! I'm talking about you, gentlemen generals, admirals and officers, in this part of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u21	Mr. Zafirov, calmly lay down your thesis. We'll hear from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u22	That's what I'm doing, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u23	You're going into...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u24	And don't tell me I'm going to offend an ally, because in the modern world, that term is perhaps the most perishable. [[Comments from GERB and RB.]] In history, 25 years is just a speck of dust. [[(Reply from GERB: Second reading is this!]] Understand, colleagues, there is a fear in the Bulgarian society that our neighbor is becoming more and more involved in the internal affairs of Bulgaria and does not hide its neo-imperial ambitions. And you, gentlemen in charge, are the catalyst for this fear with your inadequate behavior in recent months and with your refusal to defend our national interests and dignity. I can also give you many examples in this regard. First, the scandalous intervention of Turkish diplomats in the work of a Bulgarian party and attempts to pressure its activists. For such a diplomat and his work for a long time, we have asked the Foreign Minister a question and we patiently continue to wait for an answer. The scandalous changes in study materials, with the tendency to drop authors and texts that do not fit into our new role...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u25	It's not a political declaration, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u26	Mr. Zafirov, I am officially warning you that you are deviating...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u27	It's connected, I'm giving an argument.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u28	...from the subject of the debate. If you don't comply with my remark, I'll interrupt your sound. We're listening. [[Loud noise, lines and applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u29	Madam President, I am arguing our proposal and our fears. The enthusiastic ditherms of an already former minister and current prime minister's advisor at the presentation, not anywhere, but at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of the book of Turkish Prime Minister Davutoglu. The scandalous barter of Turkish vaccines! The scandal conference on the choice of the chief mufti! [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u30	Mr. Zafirov,... [[The National Representative continues to speak with microphones off.]] Mr. Zafirov, please return to the subject of the Law, all of you listen carefully, but speak on your proposal. You have a concrete proposal, argue and defend your proposal. You're not fit to argue so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u31	Madam President, I've used the word "scandal" seven times. I can use it 77 times, and only for the last month! Imagine if I went back to your department. All this, colleagues, I say it because it is logically linked to a big plan and it aims to destroy the Bulgarian national self-consciousness and turn our homeland into territory. And today's Law is part of this plan, dressed in these sweet and petting ear such locumer-shekern alabalisms. However, this does not change the bitter fact that we are about to become the only country to land voluntarily and purposefully its own combat fighter aviation and give the sky a lease. [[Noise and lines.]] In conclusion, I want to tell you one more thing: yes, you awakened fears, but you unlocked the instincts of the free and surviving 500 years Bulgarian spirit. This spirit will outlive your modern slavery, but will not forgive your betrayal to the sky of Bulgaria. [[(Applause, yelling:) Bravo! Bravo! (BSP LB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u32	First line please, Mr. Bojinov. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, learn the rules. After a speech is given a replica, a duplicate and then procedures are given.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u33	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! My colleague's speech caused such a nervous reaction in some of the people present in the Chamber because, Mr. Zafirov, you have built the basic thesis of your speech on the question: is there hypocrisy in the boundaries? And you set a specific example. I want to replicate you and tell you that you cannot run out of borders, because these same people are currently doing the will of another country, not raising a candidate of the Republic of Bulgaria as head of the UN [[beeps, lines and screams from the right]] because this country does not want the Bulgarian candidate to be the head of the UN! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u34	Mr. Bojinov, do you have anything on a party line to say in the hall?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u35	So hypocrisy has no limits, Mr. Zafirov! Don't get excited! Keep your cool, because you're dealing with serious national traitors. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u36	Mr. Bozhinov, I pay attention to the language of hatred for MPs! [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Not to mention more offensive qualifications. Second line, Mr. Slavov. Colleagues, I suggest we lower our emotions, make a normal debate, hear all the arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u37	Madam President, honourable Members! The speech of the speaker, I would even say, was not at all on the subject. We're not talking about healthcare, we're not talking about vaccines. We are also talking on the subject of the Law on Defense and Armed Forces, but I am personally worried about what I hear. Really, I guess some of my colleagues didn't wake up this morning or know if they've slept somewhere or more in the last ten years. We are not currently discussing Bulgaria's membership in NATO. This decision was made before you know how many years, including the left-hand side, was then supported. I don't know if they remember that. If we have to remind them. And they voted for it. We're talking about very different things here. We're talking airspace security, we're talking specific texts. Here you come out and recall some mantras from the time of communism, if I may remind you that this regime by law has been declared criminal. I see how timely we made these changes last week with colleagues Andreev and Dimitrov and so on. Colleagues, think of where you are and what time we are! We're not in the 20th century, we're not in the Warsaw Treaty. We are in modern reality, with partner countries being commented to protect our sky, with countries with which we have contractual relations, we have a strategic partnership. You want to be here with some populism to create problems, including with neighbouring countries. Well, who needs that? [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u38	For the third line please, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u39	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to something very interesting, as there are serious accusations of treason here, of national treason. Yesterday a young man blamed me for advising you to read. I, colleagues, will read to you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u40	No! You have a reprimand procedure for Mr. Zafirov. Read it to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u41	Yes, Mr. Zafirov, I will read to you because I feel very confused about the debate is under art. 130 of the Defense and Armed Forces Act, but I will read you Art. 131. What does it say, colleagues, art. 131, adopted by your party and in co-operation with the party "Attack"? Article 131, colleagues: The defence of the territory, territorial sea and airspace of the country shall be carried out by the armed forces independently or jointly with the formations of the armed forces of the Union States. Now tell me, isn't that the same text in art. 130? Isn't that the same text?! [[Replying and shouting.]] Now I ask you, colleagues, who is the traitor? Those who have already adopted this text in 2005 along with the party "Attack" are blazing all over the media how they had not given away our airspace. They here, both the water and the sea and the earth and all kinds of space have given me this text, and today you're talking about betrayal, comrade Zaferov?! In the previous debate at first reading, I have paid attention to you reading these laws carefully because you forget what you have adopted. Yes, today there will be a serious debate on this text, because there really must be a small correction to prevent you from being able to make such manipulative and populist speeches. I'm glad 239 MPs don't take offense at me for reading the whole law. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u42	A hole, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u43	Madam President, you have twice made a remark to me that I am not speaking on the ground, and you have not interrupted the last two lines, as they do not correspond in any way to our proposal. They're talking to me about the general spirit of the Law. Colleagues, I'm not talking about the general spirit of the Law. I argued our proposal. If you have not understood it, let me say it once again: we offer this joint security guard, colleague Bajraktarov, not from defence, you mistake the notions of taking place jointly with countries that have no common border with Bulgaria. Yes, some will say Turkey. That's right! We do not want Turkish fighters guarding the Bulgarian sky. And that was my argumentation. What's unclear here? [[Noise and lines.]] What didn't I explain correctly? What kind of references do you make here to I don't know how many years ago? Short, clear-cut behavior. I want to see very carefully how you will vote on this proposal and what are the counterarguments not to be accepted. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u44	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak. After him, Mr. Karakachanov. [[Noise and lines.]] You know you can't do that on the same subject, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! Today it is indeed a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, but in essence today we will vote at second reading on the granting of a concession to the Bulgarian sky. [[Heckling]] As strong as it may sound to you today, honourable Members, we as a country are becoming a front country, as we declare a symbolic war on the Russian Federation. In fact, I would like to make a comparison and address mostly the right-hand side of the room, as this comparison is historically meaningful. In 1941, December, this same National Assembly, this same part of the Chamber or almost unanimously the entire House voted by raising its hand to declare again the symbolic war of the United States of America and Britain and we all know how this symbolic war ended for the citizens of Sofia and many other Bulgarian cities. By the way, one of the main arguments of the People's Court against criminals for this war was precisely this act of the National Assembly. After a while, when you press the button to support all these proposals, remember what happened in this National Assembly with the declaration of symbolic war of the United States of America and Britain 70 years ago and several years ago. You will bear the same historical responsibility. And since the representative of the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria has just spoken here, let me say to him: yes, from today Bulgaria will become a front country and the name of your party will fully respond to the reality, a sad reality, unfortunately, in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines.]] What is the solution if we talk constructively, not just destructively and critically? The solution is very simple. This bill is directly related to the proposals to modernise the Bulgarian Air Force and to renovate our air park. In fact, the solution is very simple.. instead of buying new fighters and releasing fresh financial resources of 1 billion. BGN, we have to repair the old ones how old they are will say gene. Mihov, MiG-29 fighters, who have a flight resource not less than seven years. I know what you will say on the right side of this House that it is in accordance with the sanctions of the European Union. The decision on sanctions was adopted in the middle of last year, this is not possible............................................................................................ If I'm not mistaken, art. 16 says that the European Union's trade and economic sanctions against the Russian Federation do not include repairs and supply of spare parts, which means that we can do both the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which made an exception in these particular two paragraphs and therefore develop a trade and economic partnership with the Russian Federation. Saving this financial resource of 1 billion. BGN, which should be given this year for new fighters, will be a breath of air for the Bulgarian financial system. So, as you can see, I hope Mrs. Tsacheva does not interrupt me, I am speaking entirely in the context of the Defense and Armed Forces Bill. Since I am talking about declaring a symbolic war and about a front country, let me tell you in the right part of the House what your political friend, the famous American historian and political scientist Stephen Cohen said today, quote: The U.S... says he.. are pushing Europe to repeat the Caribbean crisis of 1961..................................................................................... With your decision in a moment, mostly from the right part of the hall, the most relevant part of the Bulgarian Parliament, you will in fact push Bulgaria precisely to participate in a front mission, namely to declare a symbolic war of the Russian Federation and to block the efforts of the European Union to normalize relations with the Russian country. The historical responsibility will be yours, especially on the right, and why not in the middle. Remember, I tell you, don't forget what the National Assembly did in 1941 with the same symbolic war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u46	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u47	Madam President! Mr. Enchev, I replicate you because there are two inaccuracies in your speech. The first is: you said that through this Law the majority in parliament will grant concession to the Bulgarian sky. This is not a concession because with it, even when it provides a resource that belongs to the state, Bulgaria receives money in the form of concession fees, and here Bulgaria gives its sky to another country for which it will pay, so this has an additional negative dimension. Secondly: I agree that it will be cheaper for us in the first years to maintain the aircraft so far by extending their lives and repairing them, but it seems to me that you greatly overestimate the abilities and will of the current government to make decisions in view of the Bulgarian interests and at its discretion. Such important decisions it usually takes under pressure from the outside and therefore it continues to govern. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] And finally, when we are talking about the right hand part and trying to revive anticommunism, this is done for a simple reason - history shows that when discontent increases, hatred, an impression of an enemy should be created, and these are always the roots of fascism or some similar regime that must control and direct popular discontent. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u48	Second line? I won't. You have the opportunity for a duvet, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u49	I agree with your remark, Mr. Stoilov. Thank you for this opportunity to take the floor again. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I have a specific proposal. It was done by the MIG Corporation only a month and a half ago, which said it could perform this repair and the aviation resources of our military aviation would be extended by at least seven years. In fact, I would ask if, of course, there was an opportunity, General. Miho Mihov "The former commander of the Bulgarian Air Force, take the floor and clarify from a technological point of view how this will happen: Suitable for flying MiG-29, only because of a necessary repair, which is being carried out within a month and a half to two, you are ready to sacrifice 1 billion. BGN at least 1 billion. Bulgarian leva to upgrade the Bulgarian air park?! Mr. Stoilov, I fully agree with you, but the responsibility will be entirely with you, in the right part of the Chamber and in the middle of the Chamber, which will vote on this decision, without, I say for the second time, to take an example from the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which referred to this article of the trade and economic sanctions of the Russian Federation, which allows repair and supply of spare parts, without any problems for a country member of the European Union, and without this being treated as a violation of sanctions by a country of a member of the European Union. [[GERB lines.]] Even this proposal you do not wish to debate the company's offer.MIG-29, which works very well with the Polish state, although at the moment, you know, because of the sanctions this cannot happen. And one more important thing, you are taking this decision now under the pressure of a proven russophobic, I would say bulgarophob. In fact, his Bulgarian phobia is seen precisely in what is going on in these days "his conflict with the Deputy Minister of Defence, the representative of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, if I am not mistaken, or by your party, as if it didn't matter at all. [[noise and lines]] Since it's about money. And when it comes to the national interests of Bulgaria and your government, it is about money, concessions, commissions that you will take, or rather your circle closer to the Ministry of Defence, precisely from the deal for the purchase of a new fighter for the Bulgarian Air Force, in which there is nothing wrong, but not now, not at this time, not in this state's financial state. Minimum 7 years can be used MiG-29 fighters and the amendment you are making today to the Defense and Armed Forces Act will become completely redundant. I mean, I'm offering you something constructive, not destructive, but offering something constructive to the right, reactionary part of the room is pointless. You will be responsible for this symbolic war. You will be responsible for turning Bulgaria into a front country. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u50	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u51	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I propose that when speaking to colleagues and advertising to one or another company, whether it is a manufacturer of an airplane or another, at least say in their statement: following product positioning, or following a minute of advertising. [[Applause from GERB.]] The other option I propose is to strictly apply the Rules and not allow them to do such things because it is truly shameful for the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u52	My fellow Members, with a high tolerance threshold, I am trying to guarantee a normal debate at the second reading on this bill. I call on all MPs, despite the undeniable emotion that is normal to be put into the debate, to have more arguments on the proposals in their particulars that we are discussing, stating that I and the management have no tolerance in hypotheses of discourse, or frank political propaganda. Let us concentrate on the specific texts. This is the last time I'm calling! Mr. Stanilov, you want a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u53	I come out to say that I am personally affected by the speech of Mr. Bajraktarov, and to remind that in 2005 this Law was voted by the ruling parties NDSV, DPS and BSP. "Attack" was a radical opposition. This is what your entire party knows, including Mr. Simeonov. He very well remembers how he was standing in our parliamentary room and we were talking to him, so he shouldn't be wallowing the opponent with elementary fictions, with lies. Personally, I've never allowed myself to throw shit out of the stands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u54	The word for speech is Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u55	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to join your appeal, because you are absolutely rights. We have turned the debate on this paragraph into some sort of scandal about or against NATO. I think that question is long gone and there is nothing to comment on. I therefore propose that we concentrate on the texts that have been proposed. I'll comment on the text I signed. I keep saying that for everyone to make it clear what this is all about. This is not about denying or praising NATO. It's about something very practical that I'm going to explain by reading the text. The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Bulgarian Army independently or jointly with the armed forces of Allied States, which do not have a common state border with the Republic of Bulgaria. I think the text is very clear. There's talk of allied states here. But there's one thing I think you all understand, but I don't know why you're pretending you don't understand what this is about. We are talking about something that just a week ago caused the resignation of the Minister of Education a topic on which the Bulgarian society is extremely sensitive and on which all senseless experiments are in education, whether in foreign policy or in defence, give rise to and impose only a negative attitude of society towards the institutions and in no way contribute to constructive dialogue. It is about the fact that, as a result of all the long accumulated problems between Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey, given also the policy that this country conducts, a policy of open neo-Osmanism and panturism, the aggressive policy that it leads to its Middle Eastern neighbours, because it is clear who organises the war in Syria, neither Bush nor Putin nor Obama, organizes it the Turkish government of Erdogan, the policy that leads to the Balkan countries, saying that it will interfere with their internal affairs, I think it causes quite legitimate fears in the Bulgarian society. So let's calm down the debate and concentrate on the substance. We also had this debate in the Commission. There some of the colleagues voted against with the argument that we are allies. Colleagues, Turkey and Greece were allies, but there is a problem called the Cyprus problem, which has not yet been solved.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u56	Cyprus is a separate country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u57	It doesn't matter. So what if it's a separate country?! Turkey and Greece were allies, and you know what Greece and Cyprus are like as Bulgaria and Macedonia are. If you want, I'll give you a history lecture. Let's not get it wrong. Nevertheless, we see that the problems remain unresolved. Therefore, nothing prevents the tranquility of the Bulgarian society from adopting such a text. Of course, the arguments that are put forward are absolutely accurate, that is to say, the arguments......... that there are bilateral discussions that Bulgaria as a sovereign country decides who will invite for joint protection of its airspace. He can invite Romania, he can invite the United States, he can invite Italy. That's clear. We're talking about creating unfounded fears in society. We are obliged to anticipate them by voting on these amendments to the Law so that we do not allow these fears to generate tension. And something else. In the future, some Bulgarian government for some reason can make a similar wrong and I would say a disastrous move for the Bulgarian state independence and the Bulgarian state. That's what this is about. I very much ask BSP colleagues to concentrate on the text that we have signed and not to bring the debate into NATO against NATO because it is unnecessary. Bulgaria is part of NATO, part of the European Union, has its union commitments. However, this does not exclude protecting its national interests according to its views and ideas. That's what I'm talking about. This dispute and this scandal about or against NATO only undermines the debate on the relevant proposal and will in practice lead to nothing useful. That was my speech on the subject. I appeal to colleagues from GERB and the Reformation bloc, who did not support this proposal, I say it clearly and calmly, these are the only considerations for which I have put my petition to leave the Bulgarian society alone. As long as we have given him the opportunity to create unnecessary problems and to move forward. I even know who the contract will be signed with. But that doesn't mean anything. We are currently discussing a law in principle that will act in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u58	Are there any lines to Mr. Karakachanov? Here's your first line, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I am glad that we finally got the debate back on the subject, not to fall into various emotional squabbles. I have a question. I understand the motives on which you tabled your proposal. But what do we do with the other neighbouring countries of Greece and Romania, with which we have written not only common rules on how to carry out the joint "Air Polysing" or airspace security? We have two entrys by decision of the National Assembly the law for ratification of these agreements. How exactly will we continue to work together with Romania and Greece, which are also our border countries? Do you propose with your proposal that we also denounce these two international acts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u60	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u61	You are extremely right as logic, but if we get into the actual situation, you will see that Greece is currently disarming. I will not use the term, but Greece is a country that is unable to solve its own problems, let alone participate in protecting our airspace. We won't insult them if we turn them off in a text like that. [[Radio.]] Romania will also hardly be keen to send its last LAGs, I apologise, they bought F-16, to send them to guard our airspace. Here, on Mr. Kazak's line about Macedonia, I will answer with a joke. I was also thinking about Albania, because you know... [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u62	The word for speech is Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u63	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to make a proposal in plenary, which I made in the Defence Committee, which has been examined. True, it was not accepted, but unfortunately not reflected in the Report. This is a proposal which I made in the Commission in accordance with art. 80, para. 3. My proposal is in art. 130, which we are looking at now, para. 2 to be added by the words: "The Joint Action under para. 1 shall be carried out with the leading participation of military formations, armed forces and equipment by the Bulgarian Army and an additional point in the Additional Provisions to give interpretation to the leading participation. This is a leading participation in joint actions with the armed forces of the Allied States, with joint actions in carrying out the tasks of security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria with the predominantly use of crews and aircraft of the Bulgarian Army. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I think this is a proposal which, to some extent, appeases the extremes of the current debate and the existing proposals of the Ministry of Defence, respectively, of my fellow Members from the various parliamentary groups. What is the point of this proposal? The point of the proposal is to ensure that when carrying out joint tasks there will be a place for the Bulgarian combat aviation in the formats where the missions on Air Polysling are carried out in the Bulgarian airspace, and not just any place, but a leading place which I have given as interpretation in the Additional Provisions. In fact, this is a direction of reasoning that I understand is shared by the command of the Armed Forces in the face of the command of the Air Force and the Chief of Defense, respectively. They have asked for an interpretation of the concept of joint actions under "Air Polysling" and I think that the desire for this interpretation is somewhat reflected here. What are the reasons why I should make this proposal? In fact, they are rooted in the concerns that sound to one extent or another at the first reading, and now in the various proposals that are available on the draft at second reading. These are concerns that the Ministry of Defence's proposal conceals its own concern that at some point due to the inability to ensure the fitness and technical fitness of the Bulgarian military aviation, we will not be able to participate in the tasks with our fighter planes. In fact, this is a proposal that conceals to some extent the end of the Bulgarian military aviation and this creates all the concerns, emotions and proposals that exist not only in the plenary. We need to see this and admit it. In fact, this proposal creates an alibi that Bulgaria will ensure the performance of the tasks under the "Air Polysing" in the common airspace, including in particular in the Bulgarian airspace, but without the participation of the Bulgarian combat aviation. Honourable colleagues, what ensures that the joint implementation of the tasks under the "Air Polysling" does not include only ground equipment, management and surveillance systems, without the participation of the Bulgarian crews and the Bulgarian combat planes? Nothing! Nothing guarantees the participation of Bulgarian combat aviation! These are the roots of all the proposals of this heated debate that we have also had in the Commission, which we are still watching in plenary. I think that with the proposal I am making, to some extent we are suppressing this tension and guaranteeing the present and future of Bulgarian combat aviation. Once again I will say: there is no other country within NATO where the mission is being carried out, in the unique situation in which Bulgaria is located. There are countries that do not have their own combat aviation and there are rotational tasks by the Allied Armed Forces; there are other countries that have combat aviation but do not have problems with technical and airworthiness and fitness. Only Bulgaria has concerns that due to management powerlessness at some point our military aviation will be grounded. Can management powerlessness be an excuse for a result measured with the end of Bulgarian combat aviation?! This is one condition which, through the texts I propose, will refute these doubts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u64	Can you make the offer in writing? Replices, coworkers? I won't. There's a word for words, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, I would like to express dissatisfaction that the Minister is not present. Of course, international commitments are important, but in this case it is about a key Law on its field of activity, on the other hand... in the first-reading discussion, it was here, but silent as a fish. It's good that he's gone now anyway, so we know why he's not talking. I would like to do, rather, to justify the proposals that I have made, because I think they are an elegant way out of the situation we are in. In addition, they provide new and different opportunities for the development of Bulgaria's co-operation with other NATO members. What do I mean? From the beginning of the discussion it became clear what are part of the fears of Bulgarian citizens and that in the end we should take them into account as legislators. Of course, in the interests of the opposition, it is likely that you will accept the Law as it is for tomorrow's headlines, such as those that were after the adoption of the first reading to whom the Bulgarian sky was given. I think it is our common responsibility to bring comfort and try to find the solutions that will help us to achieve maximum functionality on the one hand, on the other hand, to reassure Bulgarian citizens. I believe that the proposal that I have made for this joint security to be carried out by NATO member states, which are also member states of the European Union, has a double meaning. You are well aware that, although slowly, European security and defence policy is gradually developing. The creation of such a provision in the Law will allow and oblige future governments to cooperate more closely within NATO precisely with EU member states, which are part of the Alliance, so that we can achieve greater synergies and opportunities for joint action that will also help in the future development of European security and defence policy. There is nothing discriminatory about this text. I believe that this in itself is the appropriate direction in which the Ministry of Defence should act. As far as we have not witnessed adequate action so far, I think that a restriction in the Law would be useful, moreover, that it would still involve future governments. I urge you to support this text. It does not change the meaning of what you are trying to achieve. At the same time, it provides additional guarantees for us the opposition, but also for the Bulgarian citizens. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to point two, which I propose and I believe, Mrs. Tsacheva, that it should be voted separately because it has nothing to do with it. The provisions of the Law create ambiguity, which has never been explained, namely that, on the one hand, joint airspace security will take place on the basis of an international treaty, then it follows that outside the cases referred to in point one, that is, outside the cases of an international contract or where urgent action is needed. I believe that the only cases in which such joint security may be required outside cases when it comes to an international treaty with another country are urgent cases. So this union is irrelevant. I've made an offer to drop a case at all, aside from the cases in point one, because that's understandable. This has not been supported by the Commission, perhaps because it has been voted along with point one, I would suggest that we now vote separately. I stress again, so, by the way, we somehow leave a loophole to the Minister and the Council of Ministers, which to me is inexplicable. It gives serious opportunities to surround the meaning of what will be accepted here today. Finally to say that it is really not pleasant for any of us that Bulgarian aviation is placed under the obvious inability to perform its functions [[the President signals that time has run out]] , but if you accept the proposal that I have made, which much of my colleagues support, you will receive both my and the support of these colleagues for this provision in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u66	Do you have a written proposal you're making? Proposals on the Commission's version shall be made from the stands. You are proposing a separate vote on points 1 and 2 and only this procedurally, without any editing in them. Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? First line, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u67	Dear Madam President, dear Mr Vigenin, honourable Members! I agree with you that as legislators we are obliged to respect and face the fears of Bulgarian citizens. It is not, somehow, ethically before we create completely artificial and propaganda these fears we are talking about giving the Bulgarian sky as if someone would take it and take it home and put it above their own sky. [[(Noise, shout and lines from BSP LB. A line from BSP LB: And with the forests it happened!]] This is about guarding the Bulgarian airspace, I repeat, the Bulgarian airspace! [[Reply from BSP LB.]] I like the spirit of Mr. Vigenin's proposal. In my opinion, it is very fair and reasonable. The logic currently in the international situation is countries with which we relate not only the North Atlantic Pact, but also a common security policy of the European Union and perhaps the future European army, much more logically being part of this joint security of the Bulgarian sky. What is lacking in your proposal, in my opinion, is still the country that gives the advantage of NATO's budget, namely the United States, which are our strategic partners with which we have joint military sites under Bulgarian command. Somehow shutting them down sounds illogical. By fully understanding the spirit of your proposal, I would include the United States as an opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u68	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u69	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vigenin, in relation to what you have proposed, you are off the case list. In para 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2, p. 2, you missed perhaps one more argument about this thing, namely the presence of outside cases in point. 1 and the opening of the door, as you said, given that the security of the airspace of Bulgaria includes an anti-missile one, it can be assumed that this will happen, but it can be allowed and opened the door with a decision of the Council of Ministers in some, perhaps inconclusive cases to begin to have elements of the US and NATO anti-missile defence in Bulgaria. For this reason, I ask you very much, by arguing this thing, do not miss it, because really, when there are international contracts, there is no way out of the cases under point. In this case, the Commission considers that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u70	Third line? It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stanimirov, I understand the logic of your concern about the possible role of the United States, but I think we have a very well developed partnership in this area, and here we are talking about a particular problem. As far as I understand it, I cannot speak on his behalf, as it was said in the Foreign Policy Committee, the Minister himself did not mention the United States as a country which would be part of these joint efforts to protect Bulgaria's airspace. So I see no reason for such concerns. I don't think we should explicitly add one side or another. It is true that three quarters of NATO's budget comes from the United States, but does not mean that these funds must necessarily and must be included in our partnerships in every field. Moreover, I stress that in the future we must prepare for a more active role of the European Union in the area of security and defence, on the one hand, and on the other, I think that such a partnership has a much greater meaning, as you have also emphasised, with the countries with which we relate not only military cooperation, but also countries with which we are much more bound in line with other partnerships, particularly within the European Union. In this way, I stress, we will resolve a strategic issue and also purely political in terms of the situation created and the reluctance of the Minister of Defence to state clearly here, before the Bulgarian Parliament, and to the citizens what are the possible partnerships he plans in the coming months regarding the security of the Bulgarian airspace. As for Mr. Ermenkov's line, of course, we can think about these issues, but I wish, as far as we are in an advanced phase right now, and I don't know how much we can get into editorials here, at least what I've suggested, to be accepted. Because, again, a hole is being created in the Law, which, I'm afraid, malicious or otherwise correct ministers can use in a way that will violate the Bulgarian interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u72	The word for speech is Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u73	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I was thinking of starting my speech more spaciously with this to remind you that for 12 years we have been in NATO, that Bulgaria's allies are the United States, Germany, France, Greece, Romania, Turkey including; that fighter aviation is not in good condition and so on, the common things that have been said here, only because of the fullness of the exhibition and for those who listen to us and are not engaged in the subject, not to get the impression that someone else is guilty of what is proposed by the Draft Law. Still, I'm tempted to mention one thing. At the moment we are not bragging, but at all, and I did not hear anyone in this room now, and at the first reading, to explain Bulgaria what helicopters there are, Bulgaria what cars there are more than 700 units of a contract with them; what new transport planes there are and so on. However, we all complain that there is no fighter aviation and we are headed there to deliver new ones or restore the functioning of the old ones. Yeah, well, excuse my fellow Members on the left, I'm not comfortable standing there in the hall listening to your so morale from this stands, not to mention that you're guilty of that. Let me remind you that more than four thousand days have managed the start of DPS, BSP and so on, there is a very nice graphics Internet. Let me remind you that 2008 at eight billion surpluses and at nearly 3% gross domestic product for the Ministry of Defence, none of you have thought to point out the problem and to buy fighter aviation, and today you are explaining: what is the Ministry doing this, why is it proposing that airspace security be protected with this option, if we need to have the use of Union solidarity. You're not saying that, but otherwise you're very pathetic from here, you're very good at talking, you're very good at fooling those who aren't on the subject. But because I wasn't comfortable listening to the general talk and I'm going to go straight to the proposal and make it clear to those who didn't get it, though, because the topic is specialized. What do the coworkers suggest? They propose that in the Bill, in the proposal made by the Council of Ministers, there should be some supplements. I'm going to sum it up and put it like this: all this, this security detail, of course, as it has been in art. 130 it is said that airspace security is carried out by the Bulgarian Army or by the Armed Forces and we are now adding a point together with the Armed Forces of the Allied States. From here on, after this point, colleagues propose to put a comma and add, for example: yes, with the allied countries, but which do not have a common state border with the Republic of Bulgaria. We exclude, we said which countries.. Turkey, Greece, Romania, which do not have our borders. We're shutting them down. The other proposal of Mr. Vigenin: both members of NATO and the European Union. Well, both don't work. There were some arguments, I would just add: how are we going to put a condition on those who will eventually come to this hypothesis to help us guard the airspace, we will exclude them? [[Noise and endorsement lines from BSP LB.]] There is no country in NATO that can set such a condition. For those who probably do not know and call from place, NATO's common space is protected by all countries at the same time. It is NATO-wide, it is not Bulgarian airspace, Romanian, Turkish and anything else. It's NATO and we don't make the rules, and in this case we just say out loud to our allies: excuse me, allies, but if we have to, in the hypothesis that our aviation, which we said, is not in good condition, accidentally can't do something to guard the airspace, to lift a couple of fighters, then, please, let a contract be a further written point, an international contract under art. 85 of the Constitution, where it will enter the National Assembly and we will decide which will be the state. It will not be Turkey, do not worry if it bothers you so much, although I do not understand it. Then we'll decide who comes to help us. You're rebelling against this?! Moreover, Mr Vigenin is saying something very strange and is trying to appeal to him here at the same time as NATO and the European Union. Well, aside from Turkey and the United States of America, what do you think I said that about? The United States of America, fellow Members, is our strategic partner. What kind of sign are we giving them? Did you know that the joint facilities that we have four so far in our country, 90% of what is being done on them, are being carried out with the United States of America and that this is very good. But I'm not sure that they want us to, we just want them to come and do what they can't possibly do in this hypothesis, it's not clear because it costs a lot of money. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] What's the government doing? The government is doing something very simple. You are also saying let me say this because it is very important and thus insulting all who are involved in this, both by professional and political leadership. You say: yes, fighter aviation may collapse into the ground. Maybe even professional leadership agrees. If we could write somewhere in the text that we'd be leading, so that we wouldn't just be involved with ground equipment, we'd have aviation. Your government answers very simply. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It makes it impossible at the moment to continue the operation of MiG-29. I'm graduating, Madam President. Along with this, with fast paces, and we say it many times, he has a mandate and is trying to make sure that there is a delivery of new planes. That's what we do. This is what we did in GERB's first government, and this is what we are doing now. What are you doing? ▪ Just talk and go back and return us to the Warsaw Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u74	Here's a line for you, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u75	Mr. Radev, I am very tempted to tell you that I have not listened to a more cohesive and more traitorous statement than this tribune in a long time. There's only one thing I'm going to take from your speech as a line. You say, " They will hardly come because it cost a lot of money. " Why don't you say we're gonna pay that money? We'll pay for it! Bulgaria will pay this money, they will not pay us! Tell me, go out and make it clear how much this Air Polysling is going to cost, and why, for God's sake, this money instead of putting it into modernization, strengthening our fighter aircraft, we're going to give it to foreign pilots who are going to build their nads here in Bulgaria? Why? Explain this thing to me! This doesn't make any sense! That's why I use the term "betrayalal," nothing personal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u76	Second line, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Radev, I take the floor for a reply to disagree with your accusations regarding the management of BSP in 2005. and then, I suppose you mean 2013 "2014." I will miss the period from 2013 to 2014, but I will only point out that in your time, the defence budget has been reduced by 40%. This was the second largest reduction within NATO after Estonia. You do understand that with these cuts and restrictions, there is no way to think about realizing the project to acquire a new type of fighter plane? Moreover, in 2014, the Commission's work had to be completed, which is unknown why it is continuing to be extended and we are waiting now March to see what this Commission's choice is with regard to the technical parameters of aircraft. First, I would stress that the contracts for the delivery of transport helicopters and aircraft were carried out before 2005. Very often I hear reproaches that you have to put in the background. This choice of transport planes and helicopters was the choice of military leadership, military expertise and part of you were in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army and the Armed Forces. This was not initiated as a political decision. Third, let's keep in mind that at the time our fighter aircraft was 15 years old. In one lifetime of operation in the order of 35.40 years, you believe and you are convinced that this project to acquire a new type of combat plane was not the first place? That's part of the solution. Do not throw reproach here for today's problems that create your management.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u78	Third line. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u79	Dear President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Radev! As you know, there is a common tale that the path to hell is always full of good intentions. I have listened carefully to your speech and I really cannot understand the logic to vote on these changes at all today. If we listen carefully to you and be misled by your speech, in practice, our NATO membership treaty takes us literally and the sovereignty of the state. Why should we accept these changes, because at any moment here they can enter any NATO aircraft and protect our airspace? For this reason, let us not vote at all to reject these changes. Colleagues make a sensible proposal to create a balance in this thing, which will be adopted today, here at second reading and not create a cause for quarrels and in the future some historical contradictions have spread, if I may call them that. I don't see the point of sitting here and convincing us that almost everything is normal and tomorrow it's quite peaceful that both Greek and Romanian and Turkish planes come here and pay for this thing. It's no use! It is therefore indeed better to reject these proposals at second reading, not to support them, including proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u80	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Zafirov, who will pay this money? Yeah, I'm not gonna go into details explaining how much an Air Polysyntg costs and when others come to do it. We don't get there, we have fighter aircraft now. We are one of the countries that we have, we are not the case of northern Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, so it is unlikely that it will come to that. Even if it does come to it, which is why I mentioned it, it would be less money. Less money than if we put it in old planes now. Mr. Naydenov, you say we cut the budget by 40%. Remember, there was a global financial crisis back then. Naturally, it also affected a country like Bulgaria. I would like to remind you of you, you must know, our government, the first GERB government, spent, paid by December 2012, will not forget it. Pay old paydays. Yours. You say: "Yes, but then the professional leadership... "which is, by the way, part of the political room, then they told us and we bought what we were told. Is that why we should apologize today, too? Professional leadership tells us something else, and we'll do what they tell us. Political leadership can make such a decision that is forward-looking, which makes this management, in my opinion. It does just that "No" if we have to give a guarantee to the Bulgarian citizens that they will not be left without Air Polysling. Mr. Ivanov, sovereignty and we don't give it away with this... Read art. 131 and I'll ask you just one question: we don't have time to develop it, I hope, if you want in a private conversation. We're talking about planes now. I've mentioned it several times under a Surdine, literally, we're not talking about rockets, we're not talking about combat vehicles, so what if we even have planes. Why don't any of you who've been in charge for so long now don't stand up and tell me if we have rockets for those planes. Do we? So what if NATO comes and comes with their planes? They'll come with their missiles. I'm talking about NATO in general. With which a state may conclude a contract for such protection. That's why no one's talking. We're talking about airplanes, a populism that excites public opinion, we're talking about an aviation that we've wanted for many years and we want it no less than you, and we're doing what we can in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u82	Mr. Mihov has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u83	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are discussing the so-called improvement of the Law with what has been discussed in the Defence Committee and what has just been set out by the Vice-President of the Commission. I believe that this Law, which comforts me, not only is it unacceptable for our parliamentary group, but it is not applicable, which I justified in my speech in the first vote. The procedures are not specified and many of the things we are betting today are, in fact, hiding the inability of a number of defence ministries and governments to provide the so-called ordinary task of Air Polysling. It has nothing to do with art. Art. 131, Art. 130. Article 131 should remind us that we are talking about the activation of the system "Defense" when there is a military threat or war and it is triggered art. 5. Then, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the following with today's improvements. If we allow neighbouring countries not to participate, to participate only simultaneously members of NATO and the European Union, that is, 22 countries, as the National Assembly, we are opening diplomatic problems which are not only military diplomatic but also a purely diplomatic problem in the future. Let's imagine that we have to trigger 130 members, or 5th. We, with today's decision, have ignored all neighbors and we want art. 5 to activate us on what basis these people will come immediately first or so and whether they will vote, as agreed in NATO, consensus to activate art. Five? Here we must think very well about these improvements that are being proposed. Secondly, we should not involve peoplesychology strongly, but, as he feels, they all go on this topic of peoples psychology. I have already categorically said that we are most likely to adopt this Law today, but in this way we are concealing the inability of those I have been talking about since 2004, and we are creating a comfort in them that if tomorrow the aviation actually went bankrupt and capitulated, we have taken some measures, as they say, in any case, but this applies to Grandpa Vladika. Technically. Things aren't acceptable. If today the MiG-29 has to co-operate with other aircraft of the type "Fantom"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Romania, which did this experiment with Canada, made sure it didn't work that way. That's why I'm going back to my first words. I believe that the Law will pass it, the international treaty is the one that can sober us up with whom and how we will conclude the treaty if necessary. And most of all, I believe that it will not be applicable because today's government must take short-term measures to improve the state of our aviation. - Renegade. - Yeah. This task means the civil aviation that flies over Bulgaria and we earn a lot of it. A flight costs more than $400 if someone deviates and captures our strategic sites, with our aviation we will reflect it, we will not allow it, but it is not certain that other countries will not allow it. I therefore call on you, by adopting the Law, which I will vote against, in principle, to actually think about the two moments: its applicability and its international treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u84	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u85	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The main argument that has been heard so far in favour of changing this article to the Law and allowing joint protection of our airspace by importers of this amendment is that the contract will most likely not be implemented. Excuse me, could that be an argument for the legislator? We are to pass a law and most likely it will not be fulfilled. We adopt laws to regulate relations between public and interstate, existing and emerging. We don't pass a law that won't be fulfilled. You know, when you report this to the public, what do you think he's gonna think of us?! [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] I would like to address the matter in substance, as I am one of the importers of the amendment, which limits the possibility of Bulgaria's neighbouring countries carrying out security of our airspace. I believe that this issue has nothing to do with the Atlantic values or Bulgaria's membership in the blocs, even our current allied relations. This issue concerns the preservation of the war-political balance in the Balkans at the moment. Here Mr. Radev said something that was controversial in his statement that airspace is common. In a sense, he has reason, as it is clear what air space looks like in modern war. What's the question? The question is: this joint airspace, in which Bulgaria appears in the center of the Balkans in the center of the Balkans! In military policy, in strategy, geographical location is extremely important and providing such an opportunity to a neighbouring country, any country, for joint security of our airspace, debalances the military relations in general in the Balkans. Since the issue was raised here for a reason by Mr. Mihov, about the diplomatic consequences and our foreign policy relations with neighbouring countries: what does Bulgaria mean to provide one of the border states with its airspace, for example, to the Republic of Turkey? What does this mean for the Hellenic Republic? Or should we provide our airspace to the Armed Forces of the Republic of Serbia, which will most likely become a NATO member in the foreseeable future? What does this mean for the Republic of Romania? [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] Look, this is a solution with huge consequences. I agree that there is such an aspect, Mr. Mihov, but also what you suggest our amendments will be dropped, it seems to me that they will cause much less diplomatic turmoil than if we accept what is currently being proposed. I respect your principled position against it, but I believe that you have contributed much to the adoption of this amendment in the Law. As to the issue of our political relationship with the allies. Bulgaria's allies in the North Atlantic Pact are allies based on a collective agreement. It's a collective contract! Not individual, not between the individual states, a collective contract! That's why everyone says: collective security system. And the question arises: to what extent is what we propose compatible with the collective security system? Isn't that the question we're asking? It seems to me that in the current situation this is fully compatible with the collective agreement, because what we hear is that the executive with a separate contract wants to settle the issue of air security, that is, we have another legal basis on which we will settle these relations anyway. I sincerely believe that Mr. Borisov's government will review its defence policy and release the Minister of Defence. [[Replication by MP Tsvetomir Mihov. The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.]] Because today we are in this situation as a result of his policy and his individual actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u87	Thank you. By finishing, I mean: think of Bulgaria in this situation, do not think of the allies! [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u88	- What's the line? Mr. Ismailov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I would like to put in a little clarification regarding your speech, so I took a line. It is, I quote, a NATO peacekeeping mission, not for defence, and ensuring the integrity and integrity of the Alliance's airspace. You talked here about balance in the region, you talked about a state of war and so on. These are completely different states and things. What are the conditions and balances in the region in recent years after Crimea, after Eastern Ukraine, after Syria? In recent years, check if you have information, the statistics on what is happening above the Black Sea airspace of the Aviations of non-NATO countries, how much has activity increased? That's what this is about. I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u90	Second line? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! The International Treaty, which is enshrined in the Law, really gives me reason to say that the Law is not applicable and such an interpretation of the signing of an international treaty means the sanity and preparation of those who will sign it, not to accept it a priori or that I want the Law to be adopted, and then to correct it with the international treaty. My first opinion was that it was not applicable because the procedures in the Ministry of Defence, instructions and regulations were not developed. And in this sense, we are led to adopt the Law when procedures and problems are yet to be considered. That is why I believe, Mr. Zablyanov, that things with the amendments are much more dangerous at the moment than to bet on the international treaty with whom and how we will implement this co-operation, which is not clarified in principle even. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u92	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ismailov! Of course I'm making a difference in these two defense and security functions, even though I'm not a narrow specialist. What you make as an argument for increased military activity in neighboring regions of Bulgaria or even fighting war in neighboring regions of the Balkans, I think it is irrelevant to this legislative activity of our National Assembly. I say to this legislative activity! This Law and the proposals that we propose to it, the amendments are addressed to Bulgaria. They don't care about anyone else! Excuse me, who is it that concerns you? Here I would like to challenge something that was also heard in the previous arguments that Bulgaria almost did not solve this issue. Who's gonna answer that question? The Bulgarian State will solve this issue! And you and I here are the Bulgarian state! And we can say this one we want, that one we don't want. That's what the country is for! And then we will be respected by our own citizens. And when we want something before they ask for it, then... We're all being watched at the polls, aren't we? I therefore call on you, I do not believe that what you will do today is a gigantic feat, I do not think that anything who-knows what will happen if you accept the amendment we have proposed. The Balkanisation of relations in the North Atlantic Pact is a possible option. At the moment, I think it's not bad to think about this possibility in view of the future. That's why I'm looking at our amendment in terms of neutrality rather than in some other kind of relationship than in terms of military union relations. It seems to me that our proposal, Mr. Mihov, as you said, cannot allow a contract to settle this relationship. Bulgarian history is full of such contracts! It's full of contracts like this! Let's not list them here, there are history specialists bigger, military history. With contracts signed by several people who put us in national catastrophes. That is why it is the National Assembly, that is why we are elected 240 people here, that is why we are talking from this tribune so that by writing it in the Law, tomorrow we can not Nenchev, his sister-in-law, Penchev and so on, who have found themselves in this chair, to bring the state into war! That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Procedure, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I think that enough has been said under this paragraph, and far more than was necessary. That is why I propose a procedure to end the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u96	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u97	Madam President, I know that there are no more entries for speeches. However, it is a matter of principle. The issue is principled because in this National Assembly it starts to become a traditionq when something does not appeal to the government when discussing issues that are of national interest and protect the common people of Bulgaria, its dignity, its nationality, its statehood, problems to be swept away and put under the rug as if they did not exist. Colleagues, wake up! You have been chosen here not to stop the speeches, but to listen to each other as arguments! There is nothing easier than the votes you have to end every single speech in Parliament. But you won't be able to stop people on the street from telling you what they think of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u98	Whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u99	I suggest the contrary opinion of what Mr. Mihov suggested.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u100	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal to end the deliberations under § 3 and to vote. They voted 133 MPs: 96, against 34, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The debate is closed. We're going to vote in groups. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Valerie Jablyanov and a group. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 143 MPs: 41, against 74, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 148 MPs: 42, against 71, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Svetlin Tanchev and group. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 142 MPs: for 16, against 57, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposals under § 3 in the version of the Commission's report. The first procedural proposal is Mr. Vigenin's for a separate vote on the item. 1 et c. 2 and 3 together by § 3 in the Commission report. We are voting on Christian Vigenin's proposal. They voted 142 MPs: 50, against 67, abstention 25. Mr. Vigenin's offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Angel Naydenov's proposal in plenary in para. 2 for change in art. 130 under Paragraph 3 of the report after the text......................................................................................................... 3 are carried out to add with the leading participation of military formations, weapons and equipment by the Bulgarian Army and after which the two points are placed the text continues with points 1 and 2. They voted 145 MPs: 53, Against 55, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 143 MPs: 96, against 34, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Negative vote please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against the Commission because with what we have just adopted, we have proved that Bulgaria can be an even more decomposed yard than what it is today. With what we voted on today, we signed the bankruptcy of the Minister of Defence and the entire government to ensure normal protection of Bulgaria's borders. With what we've accepted...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u102	Not us!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u103	Like parliament, I'm sorry, Jorro! Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u104	Colleagues, in the parliamentary group, speak to Joro, to Mitko. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u105	I'm sorry. By what you voted today for..... you have proved that Bulgaria can be any but not Bulgarian; you have proved that in Bulgaria anyone who wants to protect us can come, including people who have traditions for five centuries to do so. I ask you very much, when you meet with your constituents next time, tell them what dignity means to you and listen to what they will say to you, because you are obviously a stranger to the national dignity of you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u106	Mr. Yankov, report the two texts that remain.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u107	Dear colleagues, actually! "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version for the name of the division: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u108	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have a proposal for editing the last § 5, which states that the law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Gazette. I put aside what we will apply after it has become clear that even the regulations are not ready, which need to be discussed. But I am making a proposal for a different version:....................................................................................................... It has already been said that preparatory action is needed. Parliament, at least its majority, voted for a contract to repair Bulgarian aircraft. If this programme is successfully implemented, it may not be necessary to apply this law urgently in the amendments you have made. In addition, the proposal to postpone for next year, I do not hide, there are political motives, because then most likely it will no longer be this defence minister, it is possible that there will be another government and it is almost certain that there will be another president. That is, there will be a very different environment in which to rethink the decisions voted on today. My last argument why it should be on June 1st is because it is Children's Day, and with the changes you have adopted, you are returning the Bulgarian aviation in its children's period. Thank you. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u110	- What's the line? I won't. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Mihov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I'll use one statement for two procedures, if you'll allow me. The first procedure relates to the fact that at 11.00 of the Rules of Procedure the parliamentary control begins and there remains very little left of the Bill to extend the time, which may be ten minutes, until the final adoption of the Bill. The second procedure is to end the debate on this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u112	There's no way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u113	Are there any other statements? I won't. Mr. Naydenov, your proposal for the Additional Provisions for a new item. 24 was provided that leading participation was supported, and now this proposal is off the table. I put to the vote Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal in § 5: They voted 133 MPs: 36, against 82, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Anblock, we vote on the Commission's proposal for the name of the division of..Concluding provisions................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They voted 130 MPs: 95, against 21, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, 15 minutes off. Parliamentary control begins at 11:15 p.m. with debates on the questions of MPs and a vote on a draft decision. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u114	Colleagues, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New requests for the period from 29 January to 4 February 2016 A question has been received from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to Desislava Taneva, Minister of Agriculture and Food, on an up-to-date policy of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for the creation of order in the land relations. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 12 February 2016. A question came from the MP Slavi Binev to Bozhidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, about privatization policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 12 February 2016. There has been a request from the MP Christian Vigenin to Daniel Mitov, Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on development assistance. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 12 February 2016. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MP Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on six issues from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Stefan Kenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. On behalf of a group, please, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, I strongly disagree with the way parliamentary control is organised, and in particular the fact that Mrs. Tsacheva returns most of the questions asked to the Prime Minister. In numbers, that's how you put it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u116	Ms. Ninova, on behalf of a parliamentary group, matters not included on the agenda may be considered. There is a deliberate procedure in our Rules, when a question is returned, in what order it can be challenged before the Conference of Presidents, so that a declaration in such a sense is inadmissible and I will take your floor away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u117	Madam President! [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] If you do not comply with my note, I will proceed with our regulations and regulations. Take procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u119	Thank you. Out of 48 questions asked 31 are returned and answered 9. Out of 23 questions 18 are returned and answered 4. You can appreciate one person when you compare them to another. We made this comparison with three governments backwards. 2005-2006 55% of the questions are answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u120	Mrs. Ninova, conduct procedure! I told you: there are texts in the Rules. If you consider, as you use this order, that your question or question has been unduly returned, they shall be put to discussion at the Conference of Presidents every Wednesday and you shall be answered for the decision of the Conference of Presidents. Such procedures in the manner of conduct can be done until there is an explicit provision in our Rules for those who disagree with the way in which their question is being moved. The fact that you do not prepare your questions in order of our Rules to address them is not the management's problem, since it is competent, after each meeting of the Conference of Presidents answers you. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Please release the stands! Release the stands! [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Release the stands, I give you my final warning! If you do not comply, I will call off the sitting, for you are violating its order, with which we will put an end to today's parliamentary control. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Mrs. Ninova, please sit down and take my word for it. I know you have a convention coming up, and I know you're running a personal campaign... [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Mrs. Ninova, take your seat! [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Will you take your seat? I will not give you the floor for procedures that are purposely governed by the Rules. Your colleagues attended the Conference of Presidents. Meet the transcript. They refused to read your objections in detail. Deal with the problems in your group and then engage the whole Bulgarian citizens. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak to off microphones.]] Of course, you have that opportunity. Thank you. Thank you. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u121	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, my procedure is in the way in which you are currently conducting the sitting, as you are rudely violating the Rules of Procedure and withdrawing the right of a Member of Parliament, Vice-President of a Parliamentary Group, to read a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. [[GERB lines.]] This is a declaration because it is about the trendy behaviour of the President of the National Assembly in the systematic hiding of the Prime Minister from parliamentary control. The very reference made by Mrs. Ninova is sufficiently indicative and convincing for the desire that the leadership of the National Assembly should constantly hide, under any pretext, the participation of the Prime Minister in the compulsory parliamentary control. Please do not allow such treatment anymore and do not hide the Prime Minister as well as relevant ministers, because in the form of dealing with the Rules and various rotations there are ministers who systematically, almost two months have not answered current questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. As a participant in the Conference of Presidents, if what you have said is true, it means that you are also entering the circle of the people who, I quote you, are: the hiding Prime Minister and ministers. Report on the debates on the questions of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov: Colleagues, I remind you that at the asking of the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hassan Ademov was answered in the meeting on 29 January 2016, Friday. At the same meeting 65 MPs there are numbered 66, but a mistake has been made - one colleague has signed twice, from the parliamentary groups of BSP left Bulgaria, Movement for Rights and Freedoms, Bulgarian Democratic Center, as well as non-members of a parliamentary group of MPs have submitted a proposal for debates on the questioning, together with the draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for today, 5 February 2016. The proposal for debates on the inquiry and the project were sent to the MPs in electronic form as early as 29 January 2016, on Friday. The issue is registered at 10:37 p.m. I'm reminding you of the procedure. It shall be given the floor of one of the importers to present the proposal for a debate and the draft decision within 10 minutes, which shall be outside the time allocated. If there are other draft decisions submitted by Members of the National Assembly, they shall also be submitted outside the allocated time. I should announce how the total 60 minutes under our Rules are allocated between the parliamentary groups and the non-members of a parliamentary group. The parliamentary group of GERB has 13 minutes, BSP left Bulgaria 8 minutes, Movement for Rights and Freedoms In view of the size of the parliamentary groups, the possibility of all of them participating in the debates is guaranteed. I remind you that at this time the groups are subject to the lines and procedural questions, except those which relate to the manner in which the sitting is conducted. The time of the groups does not include the minutes for the duplicate of the MPs who have made speeches. This one hour does not include the time for position and response of the Minister, who is necessarily involved in the debate under the procedure. The debates are held only on the subject of the questioning and its answer, and on the draft decision, I say the project, as it has only received one. Proposals for amendments to the Decision Project may be made. After the final debate is announced, the vote shall be put to the vote. On behalf of the importers, please provide us with the reasons and the draft decision you have submitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u123	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm presenting the motives for our Project Decision. Under the Health Act, one of the most important obligations of the Minister of Health is the implementation of the common compulsory immunisation policy. Ordinance No 15 on immunizations in the Republic of Bulgaria lays down the persons subject to compulsory immunization, planned immunizations, reimmunizations, order, manner and time limits for their execution. A direct obligation of the Ministry of Health is to provide the necessary amount of vaccines to carry out immunizations in the country. Unfortunately, as a result of an improperly planned and weak organization of your management, Mr. Minister, the Ministry has reached a situation of lack of vaccines for the implementation of the mandatory Immunity calendar for 2015. A similar deficit has emerged for 2016. There are children in 2014 and 2015, who have not been immunized against hemophilus influence B, missed two sets of 6-year-old children for re-inoculation for diphtheria, tetanus, boner and poliomyelitis. Your management errors and deficiencies put the health of Bulgarian children at risk. This is the main reason to ask such a question, to ask today's debate and to propose this Project for a solution. In your defense, you are accusing pharmaceutical companies of improper behaviour that they did not appear at open procedures by the Ministry of Health. You are filling us with all possible information, mostly oral, about the actions you have taken on this matter. I've made a brief chronology. What is the question in 2014? In 2014, the first procedure for the delivery of vaccines was opened on April 1st for 17 products, which included both 4- and 5 valence vaccines. On July 17th, a contract was signed for 80,000 vaccines, 4-valent ones. The entire quantity was delivered by the end of the year. A second procedure has also been opened, following the change of the immunization calendar, on 8 July for nine products, including a five-component and six-component vaccine. A contract shall be signed for the petative vaccine on 7 October 2014. The entire quantity of this vaccine shall be delivered by the end of the year. By the way, the price of the five-component vaccine, Minister, is BGN 57. Last Friday in response to our questioning you said that the difference in the price of the five-component and six-component vaccine, you see, was BGN 54. It can't be BGN 54. By the way, I checked the prices from the last negotiation of your Ministry and there is evidence that the five-component vaccine is available at a price of 39 BGN, the six-valent one is 56 BGN. The difference is BGN 17, but by adding another component that should be added to the five components for hepatitis B, and by adding the two procedures that the personal physician should make, in general, things are relevant, without counting the other difficulties we create, ease in the case, the Bulgarian parents. These are the procedures for 2014. Let's see what happens after you take over the Department of Health. On 29 December you announce a procedure for the delivery of vaccines under a framework agreement for four years for four-, five- and hexavalent vaccines. For some of the positions are not participants, this is the case, the procedure was finalized at the beginning of March 2015. Now notice what's happening. The following procedure, or direct negotiation of vaccines, was opened on 23 October 2015. This is seven months later, Mr. Minister. The question is: what have we done during these seven months to secure the necessary vaccines? It is clear from the government agreement, which was signed and which scandalizes the Bulgarian public for the delivery of Turkish vaccines. I recall, it was about a decision of the Council of Ministers, which empowers the Ministry of Health to deliver 100,000 doses of five-component vaccine On the other hand, our country must export 5 million BCJ vaccine against tuberculosis. After the scandal on the basis of Turkish vaccines, you claim, Mr. Minister, that this hepatitis B vaccine is not intended for the execution of the immunization calendar, despite the report to the Council of Ministers, despite the very agreement where you have written that it will be used for the immunization calendar in our country. You know very well that the medicinal product is not allowed to be used in the country, it contains thiomersal a harmful dose in a package that is contrary to the regulatory requirements in our country and is not included in the Immunology calendar. The vaccine was not introduced in accordance with the law. The Executive Agency for Medicines has not authorised or agreed on the implementation. It should not be applied on the Immunity calendar and should be placed on the Bulgarian market. Even more inexplicable, Mr. Minister, is the information you delivered last Friday, in which you claim that the Ministry of Health has conducted public procurement and the conclusion of a framework agreement for 2015 with various suppliers and a deadline for implementation to obtain the necessary vaccines, including among those suppliers there is such a vaccine for Hepatitis B. Then the question remains: what is this vaccine doing on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? Many other questions remain: has the Ministry of Health and the Drug Executive Agency agreed with the imports of the relevant vaccine, Pentaxim and Euvax and the corresponding quantities? When and how did this happen? The big question: is there a vaccine of Pentaxim, produced by the producer concerned, Mephaar, Turkey, a permission to use under the proper order of the Drug Executive Agency? This is the big question that causes panic and turmoil in Bulgarian parents, Mr. Minister. Everything would have been fine if you had taken out only one document of the Marketing Authorisation in Bulgaria for this medicinal product, which is the Turkish vaccine. And this topic would have been completed, but such a document, issued by the Bulgarian Drug Executive Agency, turned out to be none at the time. You're showing... I, by the way, many of my colleagues are ordering the French vaccine. I also bring the original French vaccine, Mr. Minister. [[Loud noise and lines.]] The producer in question, you know very well that the producer in question "Mephar " Turkey, there is no European GMP and, as such, its products cannot be sold and used on the territory of the European Union, including in Bulgaria. This is why it does not have a registered product in the territory of the European Union. The claims you are saying about the inspection and the documents you show concern only the inspection by..Sanofi Pastor............................................................................................. and the use of the product in Turkey. This vaccine has not been subject to mandatory control of a reference laboratory to which any batch of vaccines intended to be used on the territory of a Member State of the European Union is subject. And you know it very well. And the certificate from this laboratory is necessary when issuing the Marketing Authorisation. You know very well that this vaccine, they're inside two components, there's only one document... [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u124	Commercial advertising, Mr. Bayraktarov, but I can't interrupt it. It's 10 minutes. What do you want me to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u125	Such a component is available only for one delivery. [[Noise and lines.]] After all, the big question is: can't good intentions, Mr. Minister, justify breaking the law and the rules? And in response to our request from last week, Mr. Minister, it became clear that on 14 December 2015 by Decision No 977 the Council of Ministers agreed to conclude a new agreement with the Republic of Turkey, to re-export 1 million vaccines for tuberculosis BCW and therefore to be able to import 40 thousand doses of five-component vaccine from Turkey. This is inexplicable after the entire scandal, after the prosecution's investigation, Mr. Minister, so my request is to explain what it took six months after the first agreement with the Republic of Turkey to give a mandate at the moment to sign a second agreement on very controversial products. Finally, perhaps a few of the major issues that concern this debate: what is the readiness for 2016 because that is the point of challenging this discussion today? In our reply to our question from last week, you claim, I quote: "For 2016 the Ministry of Health has concluded framework agreements for some of the types of vaccines contained in the country's vaccination programme and for the rest is planned an open procurement, which will be officially uploaded to the Ministry's website on Monday. Only, Minister, you didn't specify who Monday was because it's been a week and she's not on the site. What I have done as a check of the Ministry's website I see the latest open procedure of January 25 for the delivery of 20,000 doses of four-component vaccine, note for the needs of the 2015 immunization calendar! Adding your claims from last Friday that we have the necessary amounts of vaccines by April 2016 remains the big question: what do we do when we have not started the appropriate procedures for 2016, and how will the mandatory Immunization calendar be provided? All of these chaotic and incompetent decisions put the health of Bulgarian children at risk. Immune prophylaxis is violated, allowing interruption of the immunization calendar, including resorting to its change according to the available vaccines and not according to the needs of the Bulgarian children, which is scandalous. The Bulgarian parents' trust in the health policy of compulsory immunopization has been shaken irreparably, as you know, for decades. That is why we propose the following decision to the attention of the National Assembly: The Minister of Health is charged twice a year to the Minister of Health in January and July to present a detailed report on the provision of the necessary vaccines for the implementation of the country's Immunization calendar to the National Assembly's Health Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u127	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the manner of conduct, as the viewers of the Bulgarian National Television, the MPs and you have personally just witnessed an unacceptable act, which is prohibited by the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. [[Relations from the MP Mihail Mikov.]] A representative of political power, a representative of the National Assembly made from this tribune advertising of a medical product more, breaking the Law, for which I will urge you to refer to the Financial Supervision Commission, opposing this product to another with similar qualities, which is prohibited by the Law, and the Rules prohibit it. [[Noise and lines on the left.]] In the future, I would ask you, Madam President, to react immediately, because this product, in particular, concerns the health of Bulgarian children. The advertising was also used to introduce an element of tension on large groups of Bulgarian parents. This is about more than 100,000 Bulgarian children. [[Relations and calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Colleagues, debates are open. Please, no lines! The word for speech is Mr. Enchev. [[Replications of the MP Mihail Mikov to the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u129	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Why is there a crisis with lack of vaccines in Bulgaria periodically? I think that in a global plan, the explanation is one.. producers of biotech vaccines worldwide are only three, as production is complex, expensive and time-consuming, and quality control procedures are numerous. The technological process, according to experts, takes six to 12 months. In recent years, of course, all these producers have been overloaded, and some of the factories also have production problems. To overcome all this, most European government conclude long-term contracts for the delivery of vaccines when making their immunization calendars. However, in Bulgaria, honourable Members, any deficit is solved by fire and there is no long-term contract. Why isn't there a long-term contract? Because, in my opinion, in a fire situation, corruption is the best. Corruption can have another name here. It's called a "consignorship" or a "concessionation." Choose which of the two phrases you like. And now specifically on the topic of Pharmacovigilance according to experts, although it comes as a donation, the vaccine should be the vaccine we are talking about here today, the vaccine should be analysed in a European laboratory. In accordance with the Law on Medicines, when an unauthorised product is imported into the European Union and whole lots for a large population, the Member State must ensure that all conditions of European legislation are met. Otherwise, by skipping the Drug Agency at import, with the lack of analysis, by holding as a reserve of an unauthorised vaccine, which happened here, Mr. Moskov's ministry signaled that it was looking through the fingers of European drug regulation and procedures for proving the quality and safety of vaccines. Therefore, the responsibility for the donation is entirely the Ministry, which also had to translate the leaflets into Bulgarian and to make sure that parents were informed that an unauthorised vaccine was applied to their children. Why wasn't all this done? [[Reply from Minister Petar Moskov.]] Even more doubtful is the second part of the barter First, the barter as a concept is too grocery and no one in the world, and in our country the National Revenue Agency also does not accept this kind of barter when the prices of goods each determine them themselves. Furthermore, Mr. Minister, the BCJ vaccine does not cost BGN 4.50, but there is such a cost. In a deal, the market price is viewed, and for the BCJ vaccine in Turkey it is 8 dollars, or about 14 BGN. It's almost four times as much. For 5 million doses, that's 70 million. BGN, i.e. exports, Mr. Minister, of the BCJ vaccine to Turkey at cost has damaged the state-owned company producer with an unrealized income of 47 million. lv. So I ask Minister Moskov: How many losses did Bulgaria suffer from the bartering deal with Turkey with donated vaccines?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u130	Please, on the draft decision. Look at the draft decision, Mr. Enchev, you're deviating from the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u131	Yeah, I'll get right on the subject with the last sentence. Second, under contract the BCJ vaccine was to be delivered, Minister, to the Turkish Ministry of Health in Ankara, but was taken and transferred to an unknown and unlisted company in Adrianople. Will you deny that, Minister Moskov? Finally, I will say in conclusion that Dr. Moskov, unfortunately, made disturbing moves in violation, stressing this, of the European regulations, which the Bulgarian children left at risk, for panic not to speak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u132	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I would like to appeal to everyone involved in today's debates to really try to be as delicate as possible not to exploit the political fears of Bulgarian parents, the concerns of Bulgarian doctors, because it is most important that we support with national responsible thinking vaccine prevention. All other subjects concerning infringements of regulatory regimes, administrative infringements are subject to other authorities. Here, from this tribune, it is most important to support everything we have achieved in the years as preventive measures to protect the health of the Bulgarian population. I would remind you that the new Immunization calendar, with the inclusion of modern cellular vaccines, was the work of the first government of Boyko Borisov, with the Minister of Health Prof. Ana Maria Borisova, when, despite the financial difficulties and the crisis, 30 million more were given in order for Bulgarian children to have these vaccine prophylaxis preparations available to all European children. That is why I believe in time that everything that we have achieved together, namely the introduction of the figure of the health mediator, which will allow us to reach Roma communities and achieve a higher coverage of vaccines in these circles, which guarantees the health of the entire nation; the achievement that we have made with the decision all parents to submit documents for regular immunizations and preventive examinations, so that they can receive children's supplements, all of this was our joint work and it was dedicated precisely to prevention, which guarantees the health of our children. Of course, there are concussions in the process of delivery of vaccines. What is important from this debate is that we draw the conclusions which, as a legislative framework, prevents the delivery of vaccines from being a little longer-term, is there a problem in the various procedures under the Public Procurement Act, to which the supply of immunoprophylaxis preparations is also subject, is there, of course, a problem in the functioning of the administration? All this should be the subject of today's debate, not whether the vaccines that have been administered to the Bulgarian children have a problem. As a doctor who has made more than 100 of these vaccines, I guarantee they are the same quality as what I have seen. [[BSP LB]] , and what was provided to us as documents by the Ministry of Health. I want to reassure my fellow doctors and try to place this responsibility on you because the doctor thinks with the images of his patients. I've seen thousands of worried parents these weeks. Because of the subject that has been raised, the debate must be clearly directed in another direction. I've seen thousands of worried colleagues who are sure of the preparations that provide them with regional health inspections that have applied them for immunoprophylaxis. It is extremely important to remember how great an achievement it is that we have the opportunity to protect children from more diseases, because statistics say that the cases of haemophilus meningitis in recent years in Bulgaria have been eliminated in children under two years of age, and this is an achievement for which we have contributed. Vaccine prophylaxis, vaccines are one of the greatest discoveries of medical science, along with antibiotics, in recent years, and we should in no way compromise people's belief in the usefulness of immunoprophylaxis, of vaccine prophylaxis to deal with the large epidemics and pandemics that have occurred over the years. We should not allow the raging of anti-vaccinal passions and I hope that in the next speeches my colleagues will adhere to this because this is the responsibility of everyone involved with the healthcare system in Bulgaria. And to show that we strongly support any transparent examination of the procedures and development of the activities of the Ministry of Health, we will support the draft decision proposed by our colleagues, but for greater stylistic accuracy I will propose a light editing and it will be as follows: The National Assembly has decided: instructs the Minister of Health twice a year in January and July to submit to the Committee on Health a current report on the provision of the necessary vaccines to implement the country's Immunity calendar. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u134	Any lines to Mrs. Daritkova? First line, Mr. Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues, please don't make any noises like that from the auditorium.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u135	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I absolutely cannot agree with Mrs Daritkova's statement that it is not important here how things are being carried out, but why they are being implemented. Colleagues, the National Assembly should be an example of not only creating laws but also creating prerequisites for them to be respected. Any other thing that is being said is more appropriate, and when the National Assembly gives a principle that things should be done as appropriate, let us not wonder that the right in Bulgaria is somewhere lame.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u136	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mrs. Daritkova? You won't use it. The word is Mr. Bayraktarov to speak after him, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The reason for my speech is a series of untruths and lies out here, from this tribune. [[Comments from GERB: "The map! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u138	Please, the map, Mr. Bayraktarov. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, the map, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u139	Oh, I'm sorry. I will be absolutely factually justified by many calls, many questions from the voters of the Patriotic Front and created by artificial hysteria in parents. On 21 January this year, in the Committee on Health as a member, I asked Mr. Minister a question about all the cases related to vaccines. Moreover, after a very detailed reply was given, backed by documents, to the media, I would like to stress that almost all the major media were on this Commission, I insisted that the shorthand by the Commission be published, with a special procedure. To this day, I don't know what the reason is, this shorthand is missing from the Health Committee's website. The information from it would have created additional peace and would have given many answers. The first answer that would have given this shorthand to people: are these vaccines prohibited? No, they are not prohibited, but it is exploited that they are not allowed in the commercial market for free sale, because in the Bulgarian legislation there is a clear way to pass this vaccine: the Ministry of Health, RZI, a personal doctor. This is the way and it is respected. The second question, which was not given to the people if the minister had acted as an ordinary administrator, following the letter of the Law...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u140	Like a bureaucrat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u141	...as a bureaucrat, I would even say he would violate hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian parents according to art. 7, para. 1, t. 4 and they shall be able not to receive child support. No one tells people that, because if they don't comply with t. 4, that is, their children being immunized, they are not entitled to these benefits. In other words, those on the left who thought too much about the children would deliberately stir up a social war and tension because the minister, if he had behaved like a bureaucrat, should not have delivered the vaccines. Yes, there would be compliance with both one law and procedure and harming hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian parents for whom these benefits are already a matter of life, as the minimum to receive them is BGN 350. I guess the MPs on the left, most of which are millionaires, have no problem spending 350 levs. for a bottle of expensive liquor. But for a lot of parents, that's a lot of money! And thirdly, I would like to emphasise, every month, members of the Committee on Health, part of which are three MPs from the BSP and three MPs from the DPS, can ask these questions, but they did not. As in this case, we explicitly waited for them, but they did not ask the question about the vaccines to the Minister, so I had to ask him. [[Laughter and excitement in BSP LB.]] And I thank him for his complete and accurate answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u142	- What's the line? Here's your first line, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u143	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I would like to and I could show you how to get to the transcript from the meeting which is uploaded on the website of the Committee on Health. It's already there. It is accessible to all Bulgarian citizens. If you have difficulty, I am at your disposal because here you have failed the people's representation and the citizens. We're not hiding information. All transcripts are uploaded to the site in due time. In addition, I would like to specify something as a practitioner, when there is a difficulty in delivering vaccines or other reasons that are not from the commitment of parents to conduct children regularly at preventive examinations, they receive a document and receive their children's supplements.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u144	Second line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, we MPs on the left are asking ourselves a serious question.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Laughter]] Was she brought in...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u146	Mr. Popov, I'm saving you time so that your colleagues can make meaningful arguments. [[The President turns off the microphones. People's representative Philip Popov continues to speak to off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u147	There's no debate!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u148	It's not about the debate. Your colleagues will use the time. [[Loud noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Colleagues, I'm asking for serious treatment of the Project Decision. If he decides, Mr. Bayraktarov will answer. [[Reply from MP Mihail Mikov.]] Colleagues, please don't let this debate get messed up. With a serious remark to you, I ask for seriousness in the debate! Please order in the room so we can hear Mr. Bayraktarov's ass.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Daritkova, I'm sure my computer literacy is much higher than yours. [[Laughter]] This one, so I don't need you to explain to me how to get to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u150	Colleagues, we've gone into a regime of personal qualifications and insults. I'm asking you for serious treatment!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u151	There's no need for you to explain to me how to get to the transcript. By 10:30 p.m. on February 5th, I repeat, "February 5th," i.e. today, this shorthand was missing on the website of the Health Committee. I can prove it to you in an indisputable way. Plus, there are witnesses from the MPs. If you want, I can give you the name of a colleague of yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u152	Don't, because we're going into personal explanation mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u153	This is Dr. Pavlov, with whom we checked to see if the transcription was available. The coworker can confirm that. So you have deceived and continue to deceive the people's representation. Secondly, the answer that I can give to this question will be given through the eyes of a wise man who unfortunately is not among the living, but he said so: "Forgive a man and a strong wind stop do not! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u154	Come in for a statement, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, in your numerous public appearances you have called your opponents who speak on the topic of "Vaccins" I quote: "Sluts, low-life riffraff, witches."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u156	Mr. Ademov, I expect a similar tone of speech from you at the very least.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u157	I quote, Madam President. You even allowed yourself, as a minister broadcast by a democratic political formation, to threaten them with a prosecutor's inquiry. In my opinion, this language and style are inadmissible for an executive representative. I would therefore like to address you in the most kind way possible: the honourable Mr. Reformer, the delegated representative of the ruling opposition in the executive power! [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]] The opposition's attempt to bring peace, clarity, transparency and calmness to the issues of the Immunity Calendar, you characterized as an attack on the ruling majority, speculation with fears and private motherly feelings in the name of affected political and business interests. To provoke a problem, to develop it consistently, step by step, and diligently, to break procedures and laws, unprincipled and unpardonable to violate European norms, to create a huge public scandal, and then to try to shift the problem from the sick to the healthy head means dishonesty! Dear Minister, good intentions cannot go through a violation of the law in a democratic and law-abiding state. I'm saying this by referring to a statement from the Attorney General. Especially severe and with a wide negative public response was the scandal with the illegal import of the two vaccines intended for the immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. Quite indiscreetly and inconclusively on the move you have attempted to change a large part of the pre-ordered positions. Because of the pressure on the facts, you have repeatedly changed your positions, I would like to ask you a few questions: First of all, in the two tender procedures carried out and failed in December 2014 and February 2015, did you set clearly ineligible conditions for a short delivery period and a penalty of 20% in case of delay or default?! Secondly, why didn't you respond to two proposals for assistance from the company's chief, Sanofi Pastor, for Central Europe to provide 71,000 doses of four-, five- and six-valent vaccines within one month?! Do you know the difference between delivery time and expiration date? Here are the original papers! [[Shows documents.]] Third, do they have a marketing authorisation in the European Union and Bulgaria, including the two vaccines In fourth place, the Prosecution's letter of 13 January 2015 to the IAL reported officially that no analysis of compliance with the manufacturer's specifications has been carried out regarding the received vaccines, as medicinal products have not been authorised in Bulgaria. The provisions of the special law are not complied with when the donation is made and the delivery is actually carried out outside the prescribed order in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Seven days later, a second letter coming from your subordinate Drug Executive Agency (IAL) stating something quite different. The state prosecution, in turn, wants to find out which of the 12 European Union reference laboratories examined the vaccine in question within seven days. Your comment is curious, Minister! In fifth place, in a report to the Council of Ministers regarding the bilateral donation agreement, you claim that the vaccine is intended for children from the Immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. Are you going to deny that, too?! On the move, picking up the post hard, you made a new mess: you said this vaccine was for refugees or for mass disasters and accidents. A report from the Agency for Refugees shows that in 2015 only 279 are children of different ages from a total of just over 5000 refugees. Do you think that "Euvax B', which is administered to newborns for prevention of hepatitis B, by the way, for its part, hepatitis B itself is transmitted only by blood and gender in quantities of 100 thousand, corresponds to 279 or not?! You owe an explanation for both the relevance of the quantities and the content of thiomersal in a single dose package. Give a clear answer, because your conflicting explanations are the real cause of fears and concerns. Dear Minister, with your actions on the immunization calendar you have admitted severe legal and administrative violations. The Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office has given you and your subordinate IAL for non-compliance with vaccines that are not authorised to be used in the country. You failed your colleagues in the Council of Ministers and lost their trust. More importantly, you have lost the trust of Bulgarian citizens that your team can reform the health system. You have created a spectacular public scandal with European response and every experience through numerous, desperate and contradictory explanations to get away as a kind of white ninja from this incredible mess is doomed to failure. In this situation, the most honorable way to preserve dignity and honor is proud to say: "Ah, Caesar, the newest counsellor congratulates you! " - Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? There are no lines. [[Mister Moskov wants the floor.]] Minister Moskov, before that there are two written statements. Let's hear it and then I'll give you the floor. [[Mister Moskov insists on taking the floor now.]] Now you wish to come in, Minister Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u159	Because it's Latin, Turkish, Russian, it's a lot. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament who have submitted the hearing procedure! To say that in relation to the way in which the procedure was set, the draft proposal for a solution and the change proposed by some of the MPs, I was really ready today to talk about the real problems of vaccine prevention, what are the fears that need to be met, what should be the measures of the state in solving them, which for me is the meaningful conversation. I sincerely regret that in the course of this discussion, somehow between a general joy in this House, outside this really serious and important conversation, and I support on my own behalf, whether I support it or not, it does not matter, that the draft decision of the National Assembly should indeed have such a hearing in the Commission by the Ministry, because it is important that this information be adequately translated by the Members of the National Assembly, where their voters listen to them. Fears that are planted in connection with vaccine prevention, concerns are a much bigger problem than the problem of who the minister is and what the majority is, whether we put our children in a situation that puts them at risk. Unfortunately, the discussion has returned to where I hoped it would not return to this wide, loud joy and spreading of various epithets; people who are watching and listening to them at the moment to slip, by the way, that something was wrong with the vaccines in Bulgaria. You will allow me once again to respond point by point to all the false claims that have been made here and before. I sincerely hope that at least some of the MPs who have signed the document for the hearing and for this procedure are actually looking for the other, the serious conversation, and not what is happening here. First of all, on what is the petative vaccine, Pentaxim, imported as a donation from Turkey. The company's first document, Sanofi Pastor. I will try to argue the whole chain from production to imports into Bulgaria, with the necessary documents, as obviously needs for the tenth time. But let the Bulgarian citizens know, listen and be calm about it. Quoting: "Formulated non-sold product of "Tetraxim" is the product of "Sanofi Pastor" France. It is supplied by France to Turkey, where the final product is filled in pre-filled syringes and packed by "Mephar" the Turkish factory under a production contract under the license of "Sanofi Pastor." The component of the vaccine is produced and released from the "Sanofi Pastor" France and is delivered to Turkey as a final product. So from France to Turkey goes the same product that otherwise comes from France directly to Bulgaria as part of it additionally... [[Replying and shouting.]] Excuse me, you'll listen to me! I have been good at listening so far, which is also my duty in Parliament. That is to say, from France in Turkey following an official request from the Drug Executive Agency, a letter from the "Sanofi Pastor" France, their headquarters in Lyon, it is clear that the same product, which is otherwise finally packed in France and is coming to Bulgaria, now part of it, is finally going into a syringe in Turkey, another part being repacked in Turkey. This becomes absolutely clear from this document. The next moment is related to this same product. It is very interesting that when Bulgarian citizens seek to overcome the deficits of Bulgarian healthcare in Turkey, we are not worried about the quality of healthcare in Turkey, which, believe me, is quite high. Now all of a sudden, there were doubts whether the plant in Turkey has the necessary characteristics to be able to meet the quality for the implementation of the Bulgarian children. So let me say, the Turkish plant, Mephar, has a set like this. [[shows documents]] I can then give them from GMP documents, i.e. documents, certificates of good manufacturing practice. A good manufacturing practice, I quote, is a European norm is a good manufacturing practice. It is a system of principles and rules that ensure the proper functioning of each stage of the production process, guaranteeing a quality final product. The certificate of good manufacturing practice or GMP shall certify the conformity of the production process with the system of good manufacturing practice rules. The presence of its mark on the product shall ensure that all elements and requirements of the production process are complied with. A good manufacturing practice-certificate is issued by a national competent authority to a producer that responds to the principle of good manufacturing practice under European law. Good manufacturing practice is part of European legislation and certifications whether a production power does so or not. Apropo, between these certificates of good manufacturing practice of Turkey's factory, which additionally completes in syringes part of the vaccine produced in France, and whose clients are the 50 largest pharmaceutical companies worldwide that sell in Bulgaria, Bulgarian companies, including for packaging pills, this is their business, to these people. There are certificates issued by Germany, England, Switzerland, Romania and other countries, respectively. So much about whether the good manufacturing practice at the Turkish plant is wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u160	Nobody's questioning that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u161	I don't know who's questioning what, I'm talking about factology, because a lot of things have been heard in this room. [[Reply.]] Not me! I know they're not true, and you know it too. I say it about Bulgarian citizens, spectators and listeners. Is there a document to certify to us what this vaccine is? This is the original of this document, issued by a licensed representative of [[shows him]] This is his Bulgarian translation of a sworn translator. This is part of the documents with which this product comes to Bulgaria, otherwise it could not be, i.e. the state knows what it receives. We have pre-convinced ourselves of this, but let's say that they must be a mandatory part of the certificates with which a certain product comes. Summary protocol for conjugated vaccine, i.e. Pentaxim, not to read in full if you want. Who gives it away? Here is the logo of Sanofi Pastor. The quality department of the product. [[shows him]] and ordering the Sanofi Pastor............ The manufacturer's certificate here says who is the manufacturer, Sanofi Pastor, with address: II, Avenue Pon Pastor, in Lyon 690007. This producer in Lyon, the only one who makes this vaccine, certify on behalf of the manufacturer what the final product, which is packed in the Turkish factory. And it says, "With the present, I hereby certify that a conjugated hemophilus vaccine...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u162	It's a five-component vaccine... That's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u163	I'm sorry, I'll read it, Mr. Chairman. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u164	You read other things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u165	Please let the Minister develop the thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u166	To distract your concern to distract your legitimate concern, because I am convinced that you cannot speculate on people's fears, but you just want the full explanation, I will now give it to you. I am convinced, Mr. Kardzhaliev, that you are not doing this for political reasons. I hope that when I read this, you will see for yourself. I hereby certify that the conjugated haemophilus type B vaccine related to the diphtheria, tetanus vaccine, cellless cocluse and non-activated poliomyelitis lot No P 1 5004s and so on is the number of the entire batch, manufactured and tested according to the procedures set out in the marketing authorisation form. This includes that the control texts of the active substance comply with the requirements of the European pharmacopoeia monograph 1934 and the 800 878 and 910 series of the World Health Organisation (WHO) Technical Report. This includes that for all materials derived from animals, sheep, bovine animals, as the vaccine is made in general and used in the production or composition of the abovementioned batch of the product, all measures have been taken to demonstrate compliance with Directive 2001/83 of the European Union amending Directives 2003/63 of the European Union and 2004 of the European Union. Again, according to the manufacturer's certificate, which manufacturer claims to be Sanofi Pasteur, living on Avenue Pon Pasteur in Lyon. Is there such a difference, is there no Turkish vaccine? There's a French vaccine that, in this case, some of it's been repacked. The packaging was made in Turkey in a factory with GMP certificates. In confirmation of this, the following is also the opinion of the Drug Executive Agency (IAL) in this regard. The vaccine is implemented in accordance with the Immunization calendar and the legislation of the Republic of Bulgaria. As we have already informed you with our opinion of the inspection, the vaccine with the commercial name "Pentaxim" is included in the Immunity calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. It has a partial place of production operation in the Republic of Turkey and is identical according to the composition of the vaccine released in France under the licence agreement. The Bulgarian regulator, member of the EMA, is identical to the one released by France. They're still here for each of the batch numbers, because they're from different lots...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u167	Minister Moskov, just to tell you that the time is limited and to ask you what you have to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u168	If the questioners meant that the time was limited, they did not ask 15 questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u169	Yes, of course, you have a chance. More focused and brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u170	No, I'll be thorough. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, if the procedure doesn't allow it, just take the floor away from me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u171	Three more four minutes if you can fit in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u172	I don't know if I can make it. I would like to answer each of the questions as thoroughly and clearly as possible in order to satisfy the concerns or questions of the part of the MPs who are not seeking a political dividend, but looking for reason, meaning and the way in which the state does not fall into crisis positions in the future and does not fall into the hands of commercial interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u173	Just to say that in the end, you'll still have a chance if you're willing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u174	I could have one. I hope that so far we have finished talking about what contains the Pentaxim, which is legal for the Bulgarian children, and that it is the same as the one that is always done. Whether there is a violation of the commercial interest of the Bulgarian representative, I would not commit to a specific response. I hope that the Members of the National Assembly would not be expressive of commercial interest. The second issue that arose was related to the decision of the Council of Ministers on the basis of which the draft agreement with the Republic of Turkey was established. Regardless, I will not address the MPs specifically, but it was also in most of the speeches. And here I was accused of misleading, lying, losing confidence in the Council of Ministers, and I don't know what it is about art. 3 of this Agreement. This is the Turkish document. I'm in a hurry to say that there are, in particular, two agreements. They're not in the same agreement because it's not a counter deal. He doesn't have that kind of temper. They are two separate agreements. Bulgaria has a particular humanitarian problem, Turkey has another. The two neighbouring countries have found a way to help each other in a state of humanitarian crisis. To what extent art. 3, which is quoted, as far as I understand, the two vaccines will be delivered by the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria within one month of the day of the signing of the Agreement and must be used to implement the Immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is where the Minister and the Ministry are associated with some type of poor execution of the document, misleading or lying. So we're done with quality and composition for Pentaxima. It's about what I think Mr. Boychev said about the second type of vaccine,................................................................................................. The second type of vaccine for which I repeatedly, in the course of some changed positions, and I have always claimed that it was not sought by the Bulgarian side.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u175	Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u176	Wait a minute! It is not sought by the Bulgarian side. In the course of the negotiations, I try well to explain. If you think there's no need, just hear me out and tell me I'm wrong. In the course of negotiations with the Turkish side, just to say that on the day when the Bulgarian delegation, which went not very publicly, because against such an opportunity Bulgaria to find its own solution and not depend on certain commercial interests, there was quite a serious resistance. At this very moment in the Turkish Ministry of Health...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u177	We're not against the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u178	Excuse me? Yeah, at that very moment...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u179	Minister Moskov, do not engage in dialogue with the Members of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u180	At that very moment, on the same day, only before us in the Turkish Ministry of Health were the Minister of Health of Spain and Croatia with this same request to Turkey. Is the PHARE plant available for immunization calendars in these countries? He was denied to these countries. Let me just say that in the first letter, we were denied too. I have not heard this thing lead to a problem in Turkey or Romania or Croatia. As far as it says here that the two vaccines, i.e. all these vaccines... We've been looking for 100,000. At some point we have understood that we can cause interest from the Turkish side by the fact that we can respond to their humanitarian problem, because they have sought all over Europe and around the world BCW and have not found one. The conversation about the way we produce and sell the BCW may have to be a problem with these discussions that were preparing this solution within the Commission. I don't want to enter now with what contracts is the Bulgarian enterprise tied to, why, is it good for the state? We're looking for a way out of this situation. However, during the negotiations, the Turkish side, because it has experience with hundreds of thousands of refugees on their territory, said it has the opportunity to give us additional doses of hepatitis B vaccine, not as the object of an oncoming donation from a Bulgarian country or something. We have adopted this thing precisely from the point of view of asking in advance the Interdepartmental Commission on Refugees, and it has told us that there is no prospect in terms of how this information is collected in this Commission, how public it is and how not public it is, I do not know, but the result is that there is no close prospect that the refugee flow will decline. On the contrary, even there is that other such outbreaks are expected. That's why we took this vaccine. Let me say this because the statement is that because it says here: "For the execution of the Immunization calendar of the Republic of Bulgaria" to say that this is Decree No 15 of the Ministry of Health. It is clear that the Bulgarian Immunization calendar consists of mandatory Immunization calendar and recommended immunizations. The mandatory immunization calendar includes the vaccine "Pentaxim" and we have taken it for the purposes of this part of the Immunization calendar. This is an official regulation of the Ministry of Health. I didn't write it, it was written by colleagues, I don't know, maybe Dr. Raynov, I don't know!? For the requested immunizations, among which the "Hepatite" is included, I will not read it all. By the way, there's some rabies here too, Mr...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u181	I ask you to finish this speech so that I can finally give you the floor again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u182	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'm really asking for time so that I can...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u183	Please, so that I can give you the floor at the end, as there are four other Members of Parliament to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u184	I know that your procedure does not require the inclusion of the time of my answers and speeches in the general time of the procedure, so I really ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u185	There's still a limit. We can't do this for the rest of the day. So I recommend a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u186	Since the subject is so important that it sparked a parliamentary debate, let's...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u187	I recommend a few more minutes so I can finally give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u188	We came to the conclusion that the Immunization calendar contains a mandatory part of which is the Pentaxim. It includes recommended immunizations against Hepatitis B and it says: for non-immunisational individuals and those at risk of a different nature, including traveling in and from regions with endemic activity of the infection concerned and others. In this regard, we also have a protocol from the meeting of the Expert Committee on Immunoprophylaxis and regarding the possibility to use this... [[Reply.]] What? I only talk to facts. With regard to the possibility of using the vaccine on the territory of the country, the Council unanimously decided to listen to me now: The vaccine is not suitable for use in children. The vaccine is not suitable for use in children. It is something that we already know because it contains thiomersal and so on. There's another theme of thiomersal here, let's not open it. Regarding the use of the vaccine in adults: After the granting of a marketing authorisation by the IAL, always and only one thing can happen then, age groups can be defined to be immunized as an immunization scheme, since the vaccine is paediatric, the need for two doses to be administered. I mean, each one of these people, who, as Regulation No 15, writes in order to quote precisely because you accuse me: "Faces traveling in or from regions with endemic activity with the relevant infection....................that we are talking about persons from the refugee flow who have severely disturbed immunization calendars without clarity why and what it is about them. So much for the ruling of the Council of Ministers and what an Immunity calendar means with a mandatory and recommended part. On the subject of whether the Ministry of Health... The government has made these donation actions by Turkey to secure the immunization calendar by ignoring the possibility, through a public procurement, of happening through a Bulgarian marketing authorisation holder, I will say the following. First, the will of a trader with a marketing authorisation holder to remind me that this is a term that actually gives the right of a certain commercial representation to trade with the medicinal product concerned in Bulgaria, so whether you have the opportunity or not to respond to the tender announced by the State is your presence at this tender. At this auction, neither of them are two, I don't know who said three companies that produce this thing didn't show up eight out of all the auction positions. I can also quote who they are. That's the expressed willpower you can or can't say after that, since you didn't show up for auction you didn't say, "I can't all, say 200,000 that are needed, petative, I can 70 and I'm....... because the position is up to 200,000 or I'll lie to you about how it was announced, i.e. about the need for the expertise of the competent doctors. You say: I can 70 and the state buys them. You don't appear at the auction, and then you write a letter: I might be able to deliver something. This, to make it clear to the Bulgarian citizens that it is not a problem of the state, is as if Mr. Ademov, you would tell your wife that you want to marry, to have such a procedure and you would not come to the wedding, after which to announce [[DRF lines]] That you didn't actually come to the wedding, [[DSS and DSS lines]] But your wife doesn't have to worry about it, because you're okay to continue some kind of cohabitation with her. That's the same thing. It's so unacceptable in public. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u189	Tell me about the penalty and don't talk nonsense! You're talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u190	Now let me give you the specifics. Bullshit? What nonsense?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u191	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u192	Now let me give you the specifics. Let me say that the opportunity, respectively, for companies to deliver these things, is very bad and it is not only Bulgarian. Some, I think Mr. Boychev asked if there was a European solution? No, there is no European solution because this is not a Bulgarian problem. I will then tell you what the conclusion of the European Commission is and how it is European. Even for the contracted vaccines, here you are from one of the companies I will not quote, unlike other people, who she is, who she is for the vaccine she is for one of those vaccines we are talking about. They are asking us politely for the exception of Pentaxim to bring to Bulgaria packages in English, French or Spanish, for the execution of the Immunization calendar, that is, even something for which there is a contract, they cannot respond to those formally placed by the Law, as you say, requirements, we have agreed with these things that they can be delivered in English, French or Spanish, respectively we will translate them, as we did with Turkish. The difference is that in one case it was Turkish on top, in this case it will be in English, French or Spanish. I can go on for a long time...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u193	Thank you, Minister Moskov. I know you can keep going, but really time is important. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u194	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u195	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u196	No, I can't give you a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u197	How can you not? [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u198	No, it wasn't your colleague who mentioned it, it was a minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u199	It's a resignation minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u200	Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, we strongly support your efforts to curb the logory in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u202	Thank you, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u203	I ask you, except as a quantity, that speakers be corrected in the context of the discussion. We heard about the wedding, heard about various vaccines, heard ads about a Turkish firm, and that's what we heard. I did not understand on the draft decision is there any relation to the previous one, and I ask you, those who are speaking later to rule on the draft decision which is the subject of today's debates. Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u204	That's right, Mr. Mikov. I'll remind them. I would also like to remind you that Minister Moskov is here at your request, and that is why I am really trying to balance, to give you enough information [[BSP LB]] I'm also trying to put some decent framework on these statements. Of course, he'll have a say in the end. Here's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, with regard to this case, I think you should not show self-esteem to a person who has some moral advantage. Your advantage in this debate is only that you have an unlimited amount of time in which you can speak and dominate ours at a time. All you said before is manipulation, but I have my subjective look, you your alibi. With regard to truthfulness, verification of truth will be carried out in the prosecution and then we will see what the truth is. The whole truth is in the letter from the Chairman of the IAL to the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u206	I'm asking for a personal explanation, not to develop a thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u207	He accused me, and I'm making an appropriate personal explanation and you took me seven seconds, Mr. Chairman. Everything you have said is a lie about both the legal import of the two vaccines and the composition of the Penthaxim and the certificate of quality GMP, the certificate of the respective Pentaxim. There, for only one component which is produced in..Sanofi, there is a certificate and with regard to thiomersal, which is 430 times the mercury content in acceptable quantities. Everything you've said, including imports, permission to import from the IAL, is granted... [[Mister Moskov stands by the stands and shows the documents.]] Please, we're at arm's length, please sit there!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u208	Minister Moskov, please take your place!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u209	Here's mine. [[Shows the documents. Noise and lines, banging on banks from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u210	Please, eye contact somewhere else! Minister Moskov, take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u211	Is that a lie?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u212	It's a lie, of course!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u213	Lie? Sanofi lied?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u214	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u215	Sanofi lied to us?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u216	Here's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u217	What's the truth?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u218	Here's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u219	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u220	Here's the truth!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u221	Minister Moskov, take your place and do not interrupt the MP!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u222	Please extend the time for 30 seconds. In this debate, you have pronounced yourself a complete populist, a refined populist...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u223	Please, no qualifications! Expose your thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u224	You put us in a virtual world where there are illusions where there is an alibi where there are dreams, but there is no truth! We think of you, dear Minister, as a former Minister of Health! [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u225	Please, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Grades outside the personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u226	This gaffe is immediately resigned in other countries. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u227	The word for speech is Mrs. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u228	Mrs. Chairman, colleagues, let's calm the passions a little bit. Dear Minister, before we comment on how this donation was made, imports from Turkey, I think we should ask ourselves a very important question and it is: why did it come to this? In recent years there have been serious difficulties in providing vaccines by the state to carry out the mandatory Immunity calendar. The reasons for this are different and they started back in the time of Mr. Oresharski's government and, of course, delayed affected this government. As we know, there are only two companies that could participate in these vaccination competitions. In the end, however, certain quantities were delivered in autumn 2014, but in April 2015, it became clear that we are again facing a problem related to the Immunization calendar. Today, this campaign, which is being conducted against the Ministry of Health and this government, is, in my opinion, professionally prepared and, to a large extent, fulfilling its objectives. That's why I think it's the Ministry, Mr. Minister, and I'll tell you why. If you had gone out in a timely manner and explained to the Bulgarian citizens what it was about, the way you did this in the Committee on Health on January 21st, I think it would not have come to this situation, because in fact the whole Bulgarian society [[the President signals that time has run out]] there would be enough information on the problems that are being posed and that they are interested in. What's happening right now is actually an escalation of tension, because in the media...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u229	The time determined for the group is over, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u230	Yeah. I'm coming, Madam President. There have been extremely many malicious topics in the media that this is an illegal donation, that these are poisonous vaccines, where, naturally, any one of us who is a parent would be worried about what happened. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u232	I just want to say...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u233	You don't have time to say anything. Mrs. Kovachka has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u234	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The World Health Organization appreciates that today immunizations in the world protect each year from death between two and three million people and protect more than illness, suffering, disability. Vaccines are a great discovery of modern medicine. They are an indispensable weapon of prevention and have radically changed healthcare. Therefore, it is natural for any problem related to them to cause widespread public and professional discussion. The problem with the vaccine deficit and the donation of vaccines from Turkey has been a topic of public discussion in the media and social networks for several months. Due to the specifics of the topic and additional factors such as politicisation, poor communication of regulators, delay of reaction by the Ministry and others, this process has already chronicled unnecessary and sharpened. Dozens of shows and maybe hundreds of articles flooded media space. As part of the democratic process for more transparency, this is good, but, on the other hand, this is a very sensitive topic for parents, raises concern and, unfortunately, works in favour of anti-vaccinal moods and hence against public health. That should be taken into account in our debate. In our opinion, it is time to unite around a common position so that public opinion can be reassured and the process of investigating administrative violations is normally completed. There are two points around which we can look for a common position, and these are, firstly, that vaccines produced in Turkey, received and donated, are safe, which must be reaffirmed, Mr. Minister, by national consultants and by drug regulators in short term. Secondly, existing administrative violations and problems related to the process of donation and imports of vaccines from Turkey must be investigated, proved and sanctioned. For us remains an open question on the subject, which I will allow myself to ask before you, although in part of the answer you have given it, but I think that the short answers - even with "to" and "not" - will be clearer to the public and will create peace. First of all, this is the vaccine..Evaks B.................................................................................................................... Secondly, what is her future when it becomes clear that it will not be used in our country? Does the agreement with Turkey allow it to be used in a third country because there is a need for such a vaccine in countries whose legislation does not prohibit its use? What is the shelf-life of the vaccine, can it be returned to Turkey under the contract? And, of course, many questions about: is there a translation of the leaflet of These are questions that are currently being asked in society. Imports of vaccines from Turkey focused on the country's overall policy related to immunizations and it should not cover up other existing problems. Of course, we can't put the sign on any home: here there are no problems. However, there are no problems in this policy. In short, our Immunity calendar in the mandatory immunization section is comparable to the European countries and the United States. Unfortunately, it has not been implemented in its recommended vaccine unit, according to Ordinance No 15, which you have quoted since 2006, with a latest update precisely on recommended vaccines since 2012. For example, we have one of the lowest influenza vaccine coatings in the European Union. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Two seconds?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u235	Two seconds can, but twenty can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u236	Thank you. Honourable MPs, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center will support the Draft Decision and we hope to strictly observe not only the Immunization calendar in the mandatory part, but we will also monitor the recommended one, which is extremely unsatisfactory for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Private applause from the BBC.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u237	Any lines to Mrs. Kovachka? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Valentin Pavlov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u238	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The last few weeks we have witnessed the actions of a small group of MPs on the left side of the House to fear their speeches and, of course, their actions. Even today, we are witnessing statements from this tribune, continuing in this direction. You tried to spread fear into parents about how dangerous the vaccines imported from the country are. You tried, fellow Members, even if you spread fear in our children, those who don't understand anything, but hearing the word "Vaxin" begin to ask a question about how dangerous it is, how scary it is and whether the worst will happen to them. You tried, my fellow Members, even if you put fear in the doctor's words, but here you hit a wall. Here you hit a stone because the Bulgarian doctor is a professional, the Bulgarian doctor is well prepared and would not allow himself to do anything that will deliberately cause or endanger the health of his patients and at least our children. Since here, from this tribune, and not only here, you've all traveled around the maximum number of TV stations and media to speak untruths, it was better, honourable Members, to go to the doctors' offices, to see what it's about there, to see that there is no such thing. Yes, the tension that you created really had it in front of these offices, but patients trust their doctor and do not trust people like you, by the way, much of the people fearing are not doctors. A doctor's profession is a calling, honourable colleagues, and it should not be in this way, having the opportunity, from such high tribunes, to cause this fear. I thank Minister Moskov for the detailed explanation in the Commission on the 21st. Thank you even for today's speech, although it was limited in time. [[Laughter]] ... Don't laugh! Don't laugh! This is a debate that needs to be heard by everyone. After all, as you have noticed, the Ministry of Health is working with documents, not simply working with a story in a picture or a retold. Dear Minister, I have only one question for you, despite Friday, although the interest is obviously not so great anymore. If the state hadn't found a way to solve the vaccine issue, what would have happened now? I'm done and my request is for what I started with: don't play, dear colleagues on the left, with people's fears! We from the Reformation Block will support the Draft Decision with the corrections made by Dr. Daritkova because we are for transparency and because we are for truth and truth to exist in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u239	Thank you, Dr. Pavlov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Dr. Raynov, after him Dr. Kuchukov. These are the requests for speeches so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Moskov, ladies and gentlemen! I had prepared a longer statement, but a lot of things my colleagues have said legally, so directly. Mr. Minister, you've issued your own permission to talk about the unscathed product. Period. At times, I felt as if you were speaking as Turkish Minister of Health, praising a Turkish firm. And we come to the sacral moment: where is the IAL's permission to use the medicine in question in Bulgaria? Where is the marketing authorisation of the medicine in question in a European country? Mr. Minister, in one of your interviews, you said that because there was a pan-European crisis throughout Europe to deliver the vaccine in question, did you put the issue before the European Commission, before the European Health Commission, to have you put the issue of the issue of vaccines? Would you point to at least one European country which, in the same way, imported and used the vaccines in question? Who are these countries, Minister? I remember, yes, that you were talking about how you would make common auctions with Romania and tomorrow with other European countries. Thank God you didn't let them down the same way, because there would already be rain of resignations in these countries. Minister, are you sure that this action did not break into Bulgaria's national security but in the security of the European Union? Are you sure this didn't happen? What is the information, is it true that at this time in Brussels the European Health Commission is not dealing with the case in question, Mr Minister? Further on: here on a daily basis, colleagues, we have witnessed votes, ratifications, donations, for example the global anti-tuberculosis and AIDS fund. Why didn't this contract, Minister, pass through the Bulgarian Parliament? Why did you walk this whole saga was a donation contract, then it was a barter contract, and then it turned out to be a pretty criminal scheme? Mr. Minister, the vaccine saga is clear to everyone. I'm talking about the petative vaccine. The Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office came out with its Those who break the laws are called lawbreakers. There is another word in the Bulgarian language that you know very well. It's not just the petal vaccine. Colleagues, all the time, we forget the opposite side of what we export, what we donate. Apropo, according to what is being imported, both vaccines are also paid VAT. There are expenses incurred by the state for something we will not use, as it turned out. The second part is what we brought out. As far as I can remember, the production process of BCW is nine months. I find it very strange the speed with which these vaccines were produced to move to Turkey. I find it very strange that he was in such a hurry and one of the four lots was delivered with a fake fake document. He was in a hurry. Why? Maybe he was aiming for some kind of PR reaction somewhere to give someone a hand, get shot and so on. Mr. Minister, here in this Parliament, we have all witnessed attempts at some lobbying changes in the laws. But this is the first time we've witnessed law enforcement. You, apart from a citizen who has to obey the law, are now called upon as a minister to control compliance with the law! And you set an example that is indicative of the crushing of the law, Mr. Minister. We get to the vaccine in question, we return back to the anti-hepatitis, with the high levels of thiomersal. Mr. Minister, at first you said we didn't want to, they put it in our hands, VAT paid. Subsequently, here you read that this vaccine, the National Vaccine Prevention Board, decided that it could possibly be used for travelers outside and inside, but if there is a permit from the IAL. And you know that an I.A.L.A.A.A.D.'s consent to this vaccine can't be obtained posthumously. Mr. Minister, this action of yours with this vaccine and how it will be applied to foreign citizens shows your thinking, which started a year and a half ago, a year and three months ago, with the division of people into monsters who live I do not know where you are and those who are allowed to live; those who will be socially significant and socially irrelevant. You have also just divided those who are in Bulgaria into those who will have access to quality vaccines and those who will have access to low quality vaccines. Mr. Minister, this smells like fascism! And finally, Mr. Minister, because you share it repeatedly and part of these defenders of yours that we are the ones who abuse fear. No, you're the one who abused the fear of the citizens, covering up your criminal dealings! You're the one who breaks trust in immunoprophylaxis in the country and it's at a time when anti-vaccinal movements raise their head! You are the one who did not want to bet the health of the Bulgarian children again in the interests of your deals. And finally you can lie to one person, how it was, for life, many people once, but all of you can't, Mr. Minister! And then there's another sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u241	On the draft decision, as Mr. Mikov called!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u242	Obedience to the law gives freedom, Minister! Remember that. And we from BSP left Bulgaria and we will support the draft decision together with the specifics that made my very respectable head of the Health Commission. [[Applause from BSP LB and single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u243	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. A line? I won't. The word for speech is Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u244	Thank you, Mr. Raynov. - What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Dr. Kuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u245	Madam President, thank you for introducing me as a doctor, because my speech will be medical, not political. Dear Minister, there have been thousands of fairy tales here, the result of which I am not talking about the other actions taken will be mainly on the minds and minds of Bulgarian citizens. I do not know what is achieved from an administrative and political point of view, but a mistrust has been achieved, a fear of immunization. I will not draw any conclusions as to who is responsible for whether the Ministry, whether the political forces, but this is a fact. For me, it was an important question, which I think we have an answer to, that vaccines are safe. There are organs that will tell if the procedures have been violated. Here is my criticism and my recommendation to the Ministry of Health. By the way, I gave it to your predecessor, but it didn't follow. In our public space, on the Internet and in any other forums... baby mommies and baby daddy, and so on, there is a strong denial of immunization, there is a strong fear of people that, you see, after immunizations paralyze children, wriggle, fall into comas, die. These are things that all of us doctors know are not true. But these are things that the Ministry of Health did not bother to once come out and explain what is done with these vaccines, what should be done, why they are done and how safe they are. This thing, if you don't, all your efforts to import vaccines, to provide vaccine prophylaxis are in vain because people are starting to quit. Therefore, my call is: let this discussion remain at least this. Let us begin to explain to people why it should be done and react adequately to any negative trends in this regard. Thank you. [[Single applause from AG to ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u246	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kardzhaliev the group has almost a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u247	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to say what was the purpose of this question, of this debate, and ultimately of this decision that we are proposing. I am a hot supporter of all conventional methods in medicine, including vaccination. That's what I'm saying with the responsibility of a parent. But this is the kind of area in which we should not tolerate, but we should punish irresponsible decisions and crimes and violations. That was the point. Not to panic the people and the parents. We managed to see panic in the eyes of the minister, this mannerism, all this theatricalism. [[the President signals that time has run out]] All those things you said. Dear Minister, my last sentence is this. I told you at the time that you were morally unfit...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u248	Please, no grades!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u249	...and now I complement that you are now both functional and morally unfit for this post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u250	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Mr. Minister, five minutes. [[Radio.]] Collected by the previous 20 minutes, I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u251	I'm trying to answer the questions. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the statements by BSP and the DPS, I think it is absolutely clear what this is about and what it has been about in recent weeks and months. It's about a political attack. Whether they are its initiators, whether they are so ruthless that they can ride the initiators who have political motives, this is now a separate issue, but I hope that I have succeeded clearly, precisely and with documents to explain the security, quality, composition of vaccines that apply to Bulgarian children. To the few questions asked, in essence, Dr. Kovatchka, to tell your question: Never the vaccine "Euvax B " does not have a leaflet translated into Bulgarian because we have no intention of applying it to Bulgarians. I'm sorry, call it fascism, call it what you want, from the vaccine, which we have purchased for Bulgarian children with taxes, I will not spare for another. If this is a reason for my vote of no confidence, turn it on. Be safe! In other words, the answer is: No. Otherwise, do we have a chance? Yeah, a lot of countries around us want this thing. But until we have the clarity that we will not need it in connection with the refugee flow or something that is happening, we will hold it until 2017 at the latest, when it is subject to destruction. Separately on the question of what-how much it cost. That's where the versions of the importers went wrong. I know, by signing under one document along with other people, I think pretty much the same thing. One of the importers said it was worth 70 million, another cost 4 million, there was a third version. Let me tell the truth. It may not be good from a diplomatic point of view, because indeed Turkey, as a neighbouring country, helped us and not helped other countries. Maybe we had something to give Turkey to help us too. The value of the exported BCZ-Vaxin is less than 500 thousand. lv. I can tell you the exact number. The value, and in the way in which this thing is sold by the subsidiary of the plant in Nafar respectively, that is, 15 dollars, which is much less than the price at which this same vaccine is registered in Bulgaria by the Bulgarian holder of a marketing authorisation, is over 3 million. In other words, Bulgaria gives a donation that can be calculated as less than 500 thousand. We're getting something worth over 3 million. The vaccine, the Bulgarian BCJ, was sent by Bulgarian truck. At the first moment we wanted to, maybe you thought it was mercantile and stupid to deliver it to Adrianople, because the road is shorter. Turkish authorities have requested that it be delivered to their RZI analogue in Ankara, delivered there and nowhere else it has gone and has not been. Because I heard about some middlemen and some other shit. I can accept anything. What the opposition is talking about is obvious that there is no obscene thing that cannot be pronounced, no soul that cannot be harmed in the name of their political goals. The main commitment of the State and the Minister is to ensure and ensure the immunization calendar. The Bulgarian Ministry of Health and I, as a minister, have provided and guaranteed the Bulgarian Immunization calendar. That's no reason to worry, looking for an alibi. Don't worry that when I'm close to you I'll hit you, I want to show you some documents. This is an excuse for Bulgaria to say that it has done its job, unlike other countries, as I will tell you now. Is there any commercial interest being disturbed? Maybe! Do you think there's a procedural pass? This is the work of the Administrative Prosecutor's Office may say it, may not, but our opinion is that there is none. But did we guarantee the children's immunization calendar when the countries around us couldn't? Yeah, we did. And, yes, it's part of national security. And, yeah, that's why I'm proud, and I'm not worried about the pacquili on my behalf. Now a few words about whether there could have been a European solution. Since we took office, because let's not forget here from the gentlemen on the left I have heard that changes in the Immunization calendar have occurred since this government came into force. The government since the beginning of 2014, when I was on the street, has changed the immunization calendar, and instead of the petative vaccine that the company hasn't imported, has put in a quadruple for newborns. That's not a problem. This is a possible solution, and it should be viewed as such and not be swindled in your political intrigues. These are possible solutions that each administration according to capacity, opportunities, ambitions has sought and found. What is the issue in the European Union, because this is invigorating incompetence? This is the official report of the Directorate of Health and Food to the European Commission. [[Shows document.]] He says: "In general, the supply situation is linked to uncertainty. " Eight countries have been listed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Eight countries have been listed that have discontinued the regimens, have discontinued their secondary immunizations, which have postponed a new antigen, have given priority to the formulation of the vaccine. We and Romania are quoted as countries that have found a solution to this thing without changing their immunization calendar. Let me tell you that in England right now, the European Commission's report shows that they have a petative vaccine with an expiration date until March of this year. It's England! The manufacturer of this vaccine changed his immunization calendar. All the countries around us have caught up with immunizations. The Bulgarian government not only solved the first problem, but also made it possible to have certain arrangements with the companies, on the basis of which we started from the end of last year postponed with two years of immunization of the six-year-olds. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Can I have three more seconds to read what's coming?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u252	I think it's all clear. You answered the questions in the debates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u253	I just wanted to say what the Expert Council has in mind as a public procurement, because that is the point of the debate.. to know what the objectives of the state are and what the needs are. I am prepared to tell you, perhaps to the Commission, what quantities of vaccine, with what valences and with what preliminary guarantees from the industry we will declare at public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u254	Thank you, Minister Moskov. Colleagues, are there any speeches from the groups that have time? There aren't any. The debate is closed. Before going to the vote, I recall the whole text of the draft decision together with the editorial proposal made in the House by Dr Daritkova, and then we will vote: Project! DECISION in relation to the debate on question number 554-05-121 of 11.12.2015 by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Dr. Emil Raynov, Dr. Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Dr. Hassan Ademov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov obligations of the Minister of Health according to art. 58 by the Health Act implementing the common policy on compulsory immunizations included in Immunization calendar The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 101, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Health to provide twice a year in January and July with a detailed report to provide the necessary vaccines for the implementation of the country's Immunization calendar. The Committee on Health of the National Assembly. Since the editing is not very clear, rather stylistic changes were proposed in the Chamber that sound like this: supposes the Minister of Health twice a year for January and July to provide (so far the text is identical and follows the change) in the Committee on Health on a current report to provide the necessary vaccines for the implementation of the country's Immunity calendar. I put to the vote Mrs Daritkova's editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u255	We're withdrawing ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u256	We vote, fellow Members. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. [[Single applause.]] Editorial proposal accepted. I am now putting to the vote the full version of the draft decision together with the newly adopted editorial changes. Colleagues, we're voting. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The decision has been adopted unanimously. I thank Minister Moskov for his participation in the debate and the debates on the Draft Resolution. We move on to questions and answers to the other ministers. I inform the National Assembly that Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Justice, has an urgent commitment to which I have informed the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov, who has a question for her. The control begins with the answers to Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water. The first will put its question to the people's representative Chavdar Georgiev about the risk of flooding in the area of Svilengrad municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u257	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Floods occurred in 2012 and 2014 in Svilengrad and Svilengrad. After the first snowfalls this year, the situation has also become complicated and the border crossing point has been partially flooded, alarming regional mass media. You can see there's a repeat of the floods. It is evident that in this year 2016, we already had a complicated situation, which talks about some trend for the development of water in the region, which suggests that it is necessary to make an accurate and clear assessment of the risk of flooding and the negative impact of water. You, Madam Minister, as an authority responsible for applying flood risk assessments, do you have any clear idea of the risk of flooding in Svilengrad, or do you just pray that the Lord is favorable to this region and to Bulgaria at all? What monitoring is carried out in relation to this risk? If there is an official flood risk assessment, are the necessary preventive measures planned and taken? If a flood happens again, will you take responsibility for the damage you have done because you have not done your preliminary work on prevention and control? I ask you these questions to get you out of the peace and comfort of the ministerial chair and to direct you to the risks that ordinary people in Svilengrad suffer most of all. People are worried and do not see what is being done by the state authorities to prevent such phenomena. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Once the flood occurs, you will have many excuses for why, how and when it happened, but then it will be too late for preliminary work, preventive measures and control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u258	You'll have a chance to say a line. For a response Minister Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u259	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, Bulgaria is fulfilling its obligations under the European Flood Directive. It requires Member States to implement a long-term planning approach to reduce flood risk by developing flood risk management plans. The competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water is the need to engage the resources of the administration, in particular the pool directorates, in order to develop flood risk management plans. The pool directorates are developing plans for the four swimming areas. The first two stages have been completed, a preliminary risk assessment has been carried out and maps of the threat and flood risk have been drawn up for areas identified with a significant potential flood risk. The completion of the third stage of the risk management plans for a period of six years shall be worked on, which shall address all aspects of the management. In the management plan of the East-West-West-West-World, Svilengrad Municipality is within the scope of a specific area with a significant potential flood risk, named the Maritsa River. The area is identified with high risk and covers the territories of the municipalities of Svilengrad, Harmanli, Simeonovgrad, Lyubimets from Haskovo District, including the village of Kapitan Andreevo and the border crossings Kapitan Andreevo. Municipalities are involved in the development of flood risk management plans from the earliest stage. So far, each of the stages of the development of flood risk management plans has been made public and has been consulted by the general public, including municipalities, at specially organised meetings by the pool directorates. In order to provide timely information along the Maritsa River there is an early flood warning system that provides predictions and at certain threshold values signals with three levels of warning, alert risk and alarm are announced. That is why information is being sent to all district administrations and the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. Along with long-term planning, the Ministry of Environment and Water also carries out preventive actions. In order to prevent the harmful effects of water in the Ministry, an operational unit has been formed. The weather forecast for precipitation, data and forecast for flow of rivers and warnings of dangerous phenomena shall be analyzed daily. This information shall be sent in a timely manner to all regional administrations and the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, who have the obligation to notify the mayors of the settlements in due time. In the event of an emergency, the 24-hour operation of the unit shall be activated. In addition, with the funds of the new Operational Programme, the Ministry of Environment and Water provides an opportunity for the implementation of Priority Axis "Prevention and management of flood risk and landslides" which will provide opportunities for municipalities to take protection measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u260	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. In the back you can further develop the answer. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u261	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, I am not pleased with your answer! You said things that are well-known that Svilengrad and other municipalities of Haskovo region are at high risk of flooding. The question is: what will the state do? You specifically, as Chairman of the Water Coordination Council, what funds will you ask of the Council of Ministers so that they can be conducted, that real preventive measures are implemented so that no flood is allowed? Yeah, it's clear that people are worried there, because they can always get flooded. How are we going to reassure them now that the state is taking care of them? That's my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u262	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Minister Vasileva, you have the floor for the duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, you, as a former member of the Ministry's management, should be familiar with his competences and know that the plans for managing the risk of flooding are based on concrete measures, as well as the institutions responsible for this. For the implementation of measures related to protection, the responsible institutions, when it comes to the territory of the settlements, are the municipalities and outside the settlements of the settlements. In this sense, as I mentioned, the Ministry, through the financial instrument that manages the Operational Programme "Environment" gives institutions the opportunity to receive funding to support the implementation of measures aimed at preventing the risk of flooding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u264	Thanks for the douche. Next, a question from MP Tasco Ermenkov about the state of dams in Sliven District to the Minister of Environment and Water. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u265	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the end of 2015, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office carried out a control check of compliance with the provisions of the Water Act, the Disaster Protection Act and the exercise of the powers of the control authorities authorised to carry out that control. After completion of the verification, repeated problems and weaknesses have been identified which contribute to the adverse consequences of disaster situations, namely, there is no timely or no technical maintenance and repair of hydrotechnical facilities at all, much of the dams continue to be in partially malfunctioning working condition, there has been once again the presence of vegetation in the beds of rivers and dams, the disposal of domestic and construction waste in rivers. The verification report also shows that there are obstacles to ensuring integrated water management in the interests of society and protecting people's lives and health, which is one of the main tasks of the Water Act. Violations create prerequisites for adverse effects in floods and disaster situations. During the verification of the activities of the pool directorates, district and municipal administrations, carried out by the Appeal Prosecutor's Office and in the district of the District Prosecutor's Office, eight dams in transmissional technical condition were found, four dams were in malfunctioning, inoperable technical condition. It is natural that the people of the Sliven region are worried about this state of affairs. It's natural they want to have information. In this regard, as Minister, Mrs. Vasileva, I ask you: can you inform me about which dams exactly? What is their condition and what preventative measures are taken to prevent a disaster and to avoid harm to residents of Sliven district?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u266	Thank you for your question, Mr. Ermenkov. Answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, given the questions you have asked, I would like to make an important clarification. First of all, the actions and measures that have been taken by institutions that have a bearing on the prevention and management of the risk of flooding and the protection of the population have been made public. In this regard, measures were taken both in terms of increasing and carrying out effective controls to ensure the conduction of river rusla and in terms of controlling the state of hydrotechnical facilities. You know that a single national body has been formed to be in charge of this "The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision." The important clarification also concerns an element of your question concerning the term "Potentially Dangerous Dams." According to the regulations, dams which are identified as potentially dangerous do not mean that they are technically defective. Potentially dangerous dam is a dam located near settlements, highways class-1, railways or important businesses, i.e. one that is important to control and check. Annually, the regional governors shall appoint inter-agency committees consisting of representatives of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population of the Ministry of Interior, the Irrigation Systems "EAD," NEK EAD, the enterprise "Downgrounds and Stunts" and the water companies, the respective pool directorate, the respective RIEW and the representative of the respective regional administration. They carry out spring and autumn inspections of designated potentially dangerous dams. The findings of the autumn inspections of 2015 are that in Sliven district of the verified potentially hazardous dams there are no technically faulty dams. As a result of the checks carried out in the country in 2015 by the inter-departmental committees in Sliven district were identified as technically malfunctioning four dams, in the municipality of Sliven three pieces, and in Kotel one municipality. According to the data of the "Irrigation systems" with the municipalities of Sliven and Kotel contracts have been concluded for their temporary decommissioning and in this sense the repair activities have already been completed and the dams are decommissioned, meaning they do not constitute a risk. With the additions to the Water Act, as I mentioned, the control of the dams is carried out by the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u268	And thank you for your answer. The line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have received an answer about the four dams which are in malfunctioning technical condition, but I have not received an answer for the eight dams in transmissional technical condition, which are based again on the prosecution's finding. Very please, perhaps formally, in the question that I have asked to make a terminological error, but to be specified, it is about eight dams that are mentioned in the prosecution's report. Moreover, this report concludes that almost nothing has been done since 2014 until the time the report is released, so I urge again. Thank you for the information that four dams are already in normal condition. I'm interested in what happened to the other eight in a transmissional technical state. Are we waiting for them to happen, as here the prosecution uses the term "incorrectly functional state of operation" to stop them and take them out of operation, repair and return, or will measures be taken? What measures do you think they should take if it is not clear at the moment what is happening? And once again, I ask you, indeed, to monitor and monitor, as here and the prosecution recommends, when you find any violation, to impose the appropriate sanctions against natural and legal persons who do not fulfil their obligations to manage the dams, so I am partly satisfied with the answer of one third of the 12 dams you have answered for four, if you can for the other eight give me information now, if not, I will be pleased and in writing to send it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u270	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Minister Vassileva, you have the floor. Few expectations go beyond Mr. Ermenkov's question...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u271	Perhaps rather a clarification should be made, as Mr Ermenkov himself quoted in his statement the findings to which the prosecution refer are the result of the checks in 2014, but I, as I announced, double-checks are being carried out in the year. Following the last inspection in autumn 2015, as I mentioned, from the dams located near the settlements, there are no technically faulty dams, and therefore the four beyond those established in a technically defective state are decommissioned and according to the information we have from As far as the sanctions we are applying are concerned, it has been announced that we have carried out a number of checks, ongoing, subsequent controls with the imposition of fines. With regard to the conduction of the river blondes, which is within the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water, fines have been imposed when establishing unregulated landfills that could cause subsoils of the rivers to amount to nearly 200 thousand. lv. With regard to dams, as I have repeatedly mentioned, the competences are of the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u272	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here comes a third, final question for you about today's parliamentary control. It is from the National Representative Vili Lilkov and is about the announcement of a protected area Kamchia " BG 0000116," and Ropotamo "BG 0001001," under the Habitats Directive and ensuring the preservation of dunes. Here you are, Mr. Lilkov, to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is actually about ensuring the preservation of the dunes in the protected area. Dear Minister, in 2014 and 2015, the Ministry of Environment and Water announced drafts for the announcement of protected zones "Kamchia" and "Ropotamo" under the Habitats Directive in relation to the Biodiversity Act. Interested parties had to submit their comments in writing within one month and then sign their orders. The two protected areas should protect the two largest complexes with preserved dune habitats in Bulgaria, which, unfortunately, by replacing and selling today are in fact private property. My question comes down to this: in relation to these facts, please answer me when will the orders for announcing the two zones be published and do you intend to take advantage of the opportunity to contribute to the preservation of the dunes by zoning the two sites of the Natura 2000 site and introducing a complete ban on any construction in the dunes area in these territories? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u274	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Minister Vasileva, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, the legal order for issuing orders for declaring protected areas is listed in art. 12 of the Biodiversity Act. The Ministry of Environment and Water shall have the obligation to draw up a draft order for the designation of protected areas pursuant to art. 12, para. 1 of the Law. For the protected zones referred to by you, the "Kamchia" and "Ropotamo" for the conservation of natural habitats for wild fauna and flora, such drafts of orders have been drawn up in accordance with art. 12, para. 3 of the same Law, they are granted public access. A notice is published in a central daily, where the protected areas are located, where the draft orders are available, which regional environmental inspection and leads the citizens have access to them, and the period within which the interested parties may provide the Minister of Environment and Water with written opinions, objections and proposals concerning the prohibitions and restrictions on activities referred to in the draft orders. In addition, regional inspections in Varna and Burgas have notified all regional and municipal administrations, including the mayors of the settlements in whose territory the protected zones fall for the initiated procedure. A number of objections, proposals, comments from private individuals, NGOs, local authorities and other institutions have been received on the proposed regimes. The Ministry's obligation is to comply with all the opinions expressed and to find a balanced approach. The Ministry's priority is sustainable management in the use of the areas within the protected areas, but the network should not be seen as a restriction, but as an opportunity to implement sustainable activities that are in line with the object and objectives for the protection of the areas. In this regard, a number of meetings have been held with representatives of stakeholders, where we have come to the general conclusion that the objectives of legislation must not change. There must be an improvement in the implementation in the field of the Natura 2000 area. The imposition of restrictions by administrative means alone is not the most successful approach to achieving the objectives of This is the position we have repeatedly expressed. Taking into account the extreme importance of protected areas for the protection of biodiversity in the European Union and given the need to define a model and bodies for the management of protected areas, the Ministry is about to choose an approach to its sustainable management in providing a broad public discussion within the framework of a project to be implemented under the operational programme. At present, six protected habitat areas have been declared by the Minister's orders, public access to projects for 30 protected areas has been provided, and final orders are being prepared. As regards your specific question regarding the introduction of a complete ban on any construction on dunes, in the orders for the announcement of the protected zones "Kamchia" and "Ropotamo" as a trigger measure, I believe that the one introduced by art. 17a of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is a legal imperative with more weight than such a ban in a common administrative act. In accordance with art. 17a of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast Construction, the placement of moving objects and facilities, as well as the change of purpose and the establishment of limited property rights on dunes is prohibited. It's an explicit ban. Taking into account the legal regime already in place and taking into account the fact that other activities outside it may also have a negative impact on dunes, we have provided for additional prohibitions in the project orders for the areas in question: bans on driving outside existing roads; bans on the introduction of non-local plant species; and prohibitions on the destruction of natural vegetation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u276	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Lilkov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u277	Dear Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer, but I have actually learned from him that you are relying on other legislation to resolve the issue I am putting in place, and you do not intend to introduce a special regime for these areas with additional measures to keep the dunes from building. In other words, the Ministry of Environment and Water will not take advantage of the opportunities given to it by environmental legislation to ban any type of construction in the dunes. Is that what you're saying?! [[Replicate from Minister Ivelina Vassileva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u278	Thank you. Duplica, Minister Vassileva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, absolutely not. As I explained, there is an explicit ban on construction, which results from the Bulgarian legislation. This is an absolute imperative, which means construction on dunes is not allowed. Not only that, through the measures we lay down in the draft announcement orders, we also provide additional protection by means of additional measures that I have quoted. For example: driving outside existing roads; bans on the introduction of non-local plant species; and prohibitions on the destruction of natural vegetation. The government's priority is the preservation of the dunes and this is what we show with all our actions in the years and during the first term of the government of Borisov, and so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u280	Thank you, Minister Vasileva. This was your last response to today's parliamentary control. I wish you a good job now. Next are questions to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. The first one is from the MP Cornelia Ninova on providing wood for the production of barrels. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, to develop the question of barrels. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u281	Mr. Chairman, am I being ironic?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u282	No, it's just interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u283	And today, colleagues have asked me what a strange question I've asked. Madam Minister, I find it serious for the following four reasons. First, I would like to help the Bulgarian production. Secondly, I would like to help small and medium-sized companies in Bulgaria who support themselves from this production. Thirdly, I would like to help the Bulgarian exports because these barrels, which I will talk about, are being exported from Japan all over Europe to Latin America, and from this work in Bulgaria and the budget, money is entering. And fourth, last but not least, of course, I am elected a member of the Sofia district, Botevgrad municipality, Vratschesh village, where the centre of this production is, and it is important for me that people in my constituency have a job, to have production, to have a livelihood. So for these four reasons, I think I'm asking this serious question. What's the problem they gave me? They can't acquire raw material to produce their produce. Their explanation is that, after you oversold the wood auctions and sold huge quantities of different types of wood, they are not able as small and medium-sized enterprises to participate in these large auctions because they do not have the financial resources. Even if they associate and find them, buying a mixed type of wood, they have nothing to do with it, because they only need a certain type of oak for their production. The rest can neither sell it nor use it, so that money would be thrown to waste. Through me, they ask you how can we find a solution to this question? What's the problem with them not getting that raw material? Is there anything we can do together? We, if we have to, something to change in the Law, or you with a regulation, but to do so to preserve a traditional Bulgarian production, which, as I said, is known around the world, provides money in the budget of Bulgaria, livelihood and jobs of the people in Bulgaria, and in this case I have an interest in my constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u284	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Dear Minister Taneva, please come in for an answer. You have the floor of the stand to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u285	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Ninova, yes, it is really normal for you, this is certainly a topic in your constituency, because in this area, according to our own data, there are the most producers of barrels. As a matter of fact, both your colleagues in the parliamentary group have, and I have been surprised enough by this question, I have never been asked one before. What can I say? A very interesting question, we even learned very specific requirements, which has the production of barrels in Bulgaria, which is made by small producers. The wood that is most suitable for the production of barrels is of the oak tree type According to the existing forestry plans of state forestry farms and of state hunting farms from the envisaged average annual use of oak timber around 25% is suitable for the production of barrels, or approximately nine thousand cubic metres. However, the plantations from which such wood can be obtained are unevenly distributed in the country, mainly concentrated in Strandzha and Eastern Balkan Mountains, i.e. not in the region where this production is typical. In general, the resource in the Bulgarian forests in this direction is really limited and is in areas where this type of activity is not done. In 2016, according to the approved annual wood use plans, state-owned forest enterprises will offer on the market this year also about nine thousand cubic metres of wood, which can potentially be used to make barrels, and is distributed to state enterprises: North-Western state-owned enterprise The sale of wood acquired from state forests is carried out following public open competition procedures. All information about this is available on the website of the Executive Forest Agency www.iag.bg, where you can be informed about the date on which these auctions are scheduled. In addition, under the 2011 Law, with subsequent amendments, these rules have not been amended, tenders are allocated to packages both for local processors and for large ones. There is a division, and I have no way of agreeing that in some period of time they are overturned, let alone now in this term. To answer your question whether these nine thousand cubic meters were enough, I had to say how many Bulgarian barrel producers use such wood and how many barrels are produced. Unfortunately, Mrs. Nino, I would accept if you had other official sources, but we did not find official statistical information on the volume of barrel production in Bulgaria. And to answer you as precisely as possible, because of your question from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we started by information of our forestry farms to determine how many barrel producers in Bulgaria are because there are no statistics about this officially. We found mainly in the village of Vratsesh, which is in your constituency, in the village of Skravena and the village of Trudovets. We found in our own study in response to your question about 70 producers, of which 30 are slightly larger. What we have found is that there is a larger producer in the village of Skutare, Plovdiv region. According to our data from what we found from our own research, they use about 600 cubic metres. m. such wood of 9000, which will be played annually, for their production. The only authority we have not addressed is the National Revenue Agency to see what data is imported from VAT on this item. I don't believe they're any bigger than the ones we did on our own. According to these two figures, this means that sufficient production will be offered in auctions, which we have found.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u286	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your extensive response. Mrs. Ninova, you have the opportunity to reply. I left a slightly longer answer, as it is important for the region from which you have been chosen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u287	I am glad that my question has given me reason to be interested in this sector, to begin research. Please then, however, arrange a meeting between you and the Association of Companies that produce barrels. They have their own organization, Association. Then I'd like you and I to set up a meeting, take them in, and have a professional chat with the experts. What I learned from the answer is that there is a sufficient amount of this raw material in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, it is scattered in different places as tender procedures, that is, we will tell these people to monitor their auctions and to appear on the different forestry farms, to play for those quantities offered there. Isn't that right? [[M Minister Desislava Taneva's reply.]] Do you commit that this wood is sold separately and not in a package?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u289	That is, we will tell them to report, to participate and to buy it, but it is very important that there is no need for a change in law or regulation to separate this wood from the other one they think is interfering with it so that they can obtain it. That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u290	There's no legal document.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u291	So there's no problem. Okay. Thanks for the answer. By the way, people are listening to us, so they already know what your answer is. It remains between us to arrange this meeting with them to proceed to details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u292	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Taneva, please report to the microphone the commitments you made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u293	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Ninova, yes, there is absolutely no need for any legal or legislative change in view of the way the packages are offered at the auctions that are public and anyone interested can find them on the site. Secondly, we have always worked in open communication with the industry. Order them to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on Tuesday. We'll hear the problems. This was the maximum information we collected with our powers and resources for production in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u294	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question to you is from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev on damage found in an audit report of the State's "Simitli," 2015. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u295	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question was asked on 8 December and I am well aware that since then there has been a change in the situation that you will explain to us, but for the Bulgarian citizens who are looking at us, I would like to ask the following question: it is an audit report carried out in the State-owned holding Madam Minister, my questions are as follows: What action has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food taken on the basis of this audit report? Why is there such a lack of control and such slow action, given that the report is from a few months ago? And perhaps the most important question is what do the audits of the other state forestry farms show? Because these damage, which in this case is not very much.. 57 thousand. BGN 548. According to this report, multiplying them according to the number of state forestry farms and increasing them in terms of their size, it is actually about millions of levs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u296	Thank you, Mr. Kadyev. Dear Minister Taneva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u297	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kadiev, on the occasion of the finding that the question has been asked for a long time, yes, I would also ask, if there is a procedure, today to answer all the questions that are on schedule. There's 10 of them. We are also waiting for order with legislation in the National Assembly. Some laws have been waiting for almost a year. So the process isn't as fast as we'd like it to be. Regarding your questions, first of all, I would like to say that under the Forests Act on the occasion of the case you are referring to, it is very important to emphasise that the audit has been carried out by an internal unit, an internal audit in the relevant state forestry, in this case the South West. According to the Forests Act, our internal control of the activities of the divisions is carried out by internal audit units in state forest enterprises. The report you are quoting is such and has been carried out by a team of precisely such an internal audit unit. What action did we take? You probably already know. The Director has been suspended, he has been detained with the enforcement guarantee under the management contract, and a signal has been sent to the prosecution together with the report, which is from an internal financial control unit. On the second point, concerning the alleged lack of control by the Ministry, I simply reiterate that this control and this finding have been established by the Internal Audit Unit and not by an external audit institution. This audit shall cover a period of 4 years from the management of the undertaking, regardless of who was the director. Since the establishment of the Internal Audit Unit, audits of all 38 territorial units of the undertaking have been carried out at the South-West State Enterprise so far, and two holdings have been audited again in 2015. On the basis of the results of the checks carried out and in relation to the conditions of the management contracts concluded, the lodged guarantees of 11 farm directors on the territory of the South West forestry undertaking for detected infringements have been retained. For the period from the establishment of the undertaking to date, the internal audit units of the six state-owned enterprises have made 232 audit commitments, with only 73 in 2015, representing nearly 35% of such checks carried out in the last four years in the same order. All audit reports shall make appropriate recommendations and, on the basis of them, appropriate measures have been taken. I move on to the third question, what the audits of other state-owned forest enterprises show. Due to infringements committed and damage caused in 2015, inspections of the internal audit units of the undertakings themselves have detained the lodged guarantees of a total of 61 directors of forest units of the enterprises. For particularly serious infringements of the regulations for actions undermining the prestige of enterprises and abuse, 9 of them are subject to penalties of up to five monthly gross wages. For established indicators of fraud in 13 of the audited sites, signals have been sent to the relevant prosecutors against the responsible officials for seeking responsibility and are also released. Seven of the audited sites have received alerts from the Agency for State Financial Inspection. All these data regarding the results of these checks, again I would like to stress, have been carried out by internal financial audit units.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u298	Thank you, Minister Taneva. Here you go, Mr. Kadyev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Taneva, my congratulations to the internal affairs units because that's their job. After all, that's why they get salaries. The painting you've painted is a dramatic 13 signals to the prosecutor's office, suspended salaries, a few signals, a lot of criticism. All this shows one thing in the forest sector has huge potential for corruption, which is unfortunately used by people who benefit from lack of control. My recommendation to you and I hope, continuing now, in fact, the most important is not what has been so far. You gave the D.A. a nice piece of work. What is important is the measures that are taken forward so that people who are in internal affairs can not just do it once in four years and return to this topic after four years. After one year, for example, let's talk to you again and then tell me: "This time instead of thirteen checks to the prosecution we have sent three because the other ten are already in order. Clearly, corruption cannot be stopped at a hundred percent. The question is that it should be pressed all the time to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u300	Thank you, dear Mr. Kadyev. Minister Taneva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u301	Dear Mr. President, Dear Mr. Kadiev, I would just like to finish with facts what are the results of our activities, which I think clearly show our political vision of how the sector should be managed, what we are looking for and what we expect is what the society expects, namely lack of corruption, transparency, publicity and protection of the Bulgarian forest. I would like to say that in a year and two months of management by 163 forest managers of state forest enterprises, we have released 76 or 47% of the management; 6370 is the total number of employees as a whole in the system in the six state forest enterprises. Of them with various penalties, including exemption, there are 343 employees in this period. The battle against corruption would only be successful if the efforts were united. Secondly, it is also very important when we make public the way the system works. The Forest Executive Agency did so in 2015 and now each of you who is interested on the page of the Forest Executive Agency can see everything "both the auctions for which I replied to Mrs. Nino and any truck that moves with wood and you have doubts about the way it comes from it, can open the system and see if this vehicle is carrying legally harvested wood; call the wire. 112 and check immediately. Some of the cases that have been solved, including in the media, are precisely because of the information system that we have introduced and the publicity that we have created. I would also like to say in advance that all this has an effect, the most noticeable of the financial result. The profit for 2015 will be nearly four-and-a-half times more than that for 2014, subject to a moratorium on wood trade outside for nearly three months and a fall in prices. We expect close to eight million leva results that are operational data. Each indicator of each of the State-owned forest enterprises for 2015 is higher and compared to 2014 for most of the higher than its creation. lv. more revenue, 32% more afforestation, in times more forest roads made in general than the last 25 years, 177 km, started 535 at the beginning of the year, twice increased investment to help the natural renewal. When the results are accurate and come out certified, audited, we will formally present them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u302	Thank you, Minister Taneva. I hope Mr. Kadyev received the necessary information. The next question is from the MP Velizar Enchev on steps from the Bulgarian side to restore the Bulgarian-Russian trade and economic relations before the fall of sanctions of the European Union and the US against the Russian Federation. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u303	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! During a business visit to Moscow by the director of the Bulgarian-Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Assoc. Dr. Zhelyo Dobrev is holding a meeting with the management of the Federal Veterinary Veterinary Supervision Service. During this meeting, the Russian side officially informed the Bulgarian representative Mr. Zhelyo Dobrev that Germany, Hungary, Greece and Cyprus are actively preparing for the moment when the sanctions of the European Union and the United States of America against the Russian Federation will fall. These sanctions will almost certainly fall in the middle of this year, only four or five months from now. Those European countries wish to have a forwarding position to export their products to Russia upon termination of sanctions. To this end, they have issued official requests for inspections of their companies by... Rosseljozzensozor...................................................................................................................... since'......................................................................................................................... Madam Minister, are you planning to take action on the example of these European countries in order to regain the lost Russian markets because of unfair sanctions against the Russian Federation? If you have accidentally taken such sanctions, would you inform the National Assembly, as it is about the interests of hundreds of producers of agricultural products in Bulgaria who are suffering serious damage from this embargo, not to mention the damage to the Bulgarian state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u304	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Dear Minister Taneva, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u305	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Enchev, Dear Gentlemen of the National Assembly! I mean, our country has never wanted to end any relationship, communication with the Russian side, as our traditional partner and really key to certain types of farming, and we have never done it. We are trying and continuing to work towards the day when we will restore our normal relations to trade as we have always had. I can answer that right now. On 6 October 2015 from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we sent a letter to Mr. Kachov, Minister of Agriculture of the Russian Federation, in which I made a proposal to my colleague to establish a joint working group on cooperation in the field of agriculture. Thanks to the efforts of representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food during the 15th meeting of the Bulgarian-Russian Intergovernmental Commission for Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation, which took place on 27 January 2016 in Sofia, it was decided and recorded in the minutes of the Commission meeting to establish a joint working group for cooperation in the field of agriculture. The Working Group will consist of representatives of the two agricultural ministries, which will address specific issues and problems of bilateral cooperation in the field of agriculture and food safety, and in particular: exchange of information on the veterinary and phytosanitary control of the Russian Federation; exchange of experience and information in the implementation of modern methods for laboratory analyses in the wine sector and consideration of the possibility of implementing joint projects with partners from Russia in the field of wine production, and control of the quality of wine in cooperation with a view to stimulating innovation in the field of cereal, fruit and vegetables production; exchange of scientific and technical information and plant genetic resources. The two countries agreed that the first meeting of the working group would be in the first half of 2016 in Bulgaria. From the information we received from the Ministry of Agriculture of those Member States in your question, it is clear that they have not submitted official requests for inspections to their companies by the Russian services. Before the embargo was imposed, Bulgarian enterprises traded their goods with certificates agreed between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union, given its powers in the Lisbon Treaty and the Customs Union, which was formed by the Russian Federation, Kazakhstan and Belarus, respectively, the Russian Federation. When the embargo is lifted, it should be abolished for all Member States of the European Union and each Member State should use the approved certificates agreed between the European Commission and the Customs Union, respectively the Russian Federation. Immediately after the introduction of the ban by Russia, an extraordinary meeting of the Council of the European Union on Agriculture and Fisheries was convened, during which all countries said that the Russian ban was a European problem requiring measures at EU level. Measures are also needed to deal with indirect damage with equal treatment of all producers. I hope, like all producers, that the time will come faster when all manufacturers, consumers, consumers will be able to restore their traditional markets, respectively products they have consumed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u306	Thank you, Minister Taneva, for the answer. Dear Mr. Enchev, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u307	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Obviously, Madam Minister, we speak in different languages and use different information sources. Officially, it claims: Germany, Hungary, Greece and Cyprus have submitted applications, a question for the purpose of FOS supervision to carry out inspections of their companies by this institution, as I repeat once again, the export licences issued so far or, more precisely, for imports of agricultural products into the Russian Federation are invalid. I don't know where you got that information.! What business has your merchant attaché done in Russia? On this occasion, I'd like to give you some up-to-date information from last night. Bavaria's Prime Minister Horst Zeehofer had a meeting yesterday with Russian Head of State Vladimir Putin, and during it it it was precisely the time for the fall of sanctions, and Bavaria from the Federal Republic of Germany, as the largest province, is most interested precisely in solving this issue. So, after the European Union's engine, the European Union's economic engine, the Federal Republic of Germany, is putting ahead of this question, since, as the prime minister of the independent state Hungary, and not the dependent Bulgaria is putting this issue on the export of agricultural production, you did not give me specific data in your response for steps taken, besides a joint meeting of the Russian-Bulgarian Economic Commission. A joint meeting that was planned a long time ago. Let me remind you of what Viktor Orban said on this issue: the European Union shot itself in the leg with the sanction against Russia, and we must prevent what is going on. Milos Ziman the Czech Republic, however, compares with the Visegrad Group, you know, Prime Minister Borisov is invited to participate in the meeting of the Visegrad Group of the Prime Minister of Hungary Orban. According to Milos Zeman, EU sanctions are counterproductive and you must take ahead measures in the next three or four months so that we can be among the first to receive such permits and the corresponding quotas for agricultural exports. This is not only about the interests of Bulgarian farmers, it is about the interests of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u308	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Madam Secretary? Here you are, you have the opportunity to duplicate Mr. Enchev's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u309	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Enchev, I don't think the languages are different at all. I answered you very precisely and specifically. Again, I confirm that everything that the Bulgarian State and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food can do at the moment is being done. Secondly, I would like to make it very clear that we need to talk about dropping these sanctions as a whole for the European Union, because the losses for Bulgarian agriculture from the introduction of the Russian embargo by the end of December last year are estimated at nearly 274 million. BGN, which is mainly indirect effect, compared to the direct loss of this amount of only 20 million. lv. The direct market that the embargo proceedings in Bulgaria in the Russian market are currently being assessed at this rate. However, the fact that the embargo affects the entire European Union, part of the countries in it, has been 70% of them, targeting the Russian market, has brought an excess of these products, which has pushed down all the prices in the European Union, from which the producers of these goods are suffering throughout the European Union. If this is not repealed as a whole for the European Union, we cannot expect that it could be very different.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u310	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question for you today is from the National Representative Antony Trenchev on strengthening control of compliance with the restrictions introduced by the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game in the Republic of Bulgaria for the use of large pellets. Dear Mr. Trenchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u311	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable colleagues, on 12 December last year another incident occurred in Bulgaria during a hunting trip when a hunter shooting at wild game hit a border police officer. I will only recall a few of the incidents that occurred during the hunt: a 20-year-old young man was wounded during a hunt in the Trun village of Ryanovtsi; another man suffered a hunting accident in the area of Milevo (Sevliev village of Koupen) in November 2015; again in December last year a former head of the road management died during a hunting trip near Malko Tarnovo. I'm stopping here because there's really a lot of accidents. The Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game in Bulgaria introduces a restriction on the use of pellets with a diameter of more than 6 mm in the production of group hunting of wild boar with smooth-bore weapons. It is a public secret that many hunters in the country do not comply with this ban, which is often the cause of incidents during hunting trips. I also had several conversations with hunters who shared that the ban was often violated. As another such, they pointed out the frequent use of alcohol during hunting trips. My question is related to the ban introduced by the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game in Bulgaria: What measures will the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to increase control in hunting groups to comply with the ban on the use of bullets with pellets, the diameter of which is over 6 mm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u312	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev, for the question. Dear Mrs. Taneva, please come in for an answer. It's a question about hunting season. A lot of people are interested. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u313	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Trenchev, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, since the introduction of the ban in the 2012 Hunting and Game Conservation Act on group hunting of wild boar to use only bullet-type ammunition until now four meetings of the Hunting Council of the Forest Executive Agency have been held at which measures have been discussed to limit the incidents during hunting trips. In this regard, the following actions have been taken: - the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency issued an instruction on safety during hunting and activities with hunting weapons and ammunition in 2012. - each year prior to the opening of the group hunting of wild boar, the regional forestry directorates shall assist the hunting associations to hold a meeting with the managers of the hunting trips in relation to the organisation and conduct of the hunting, the reporting of hunting permits and the safety measures, as required by the Hunting and Conservation Act and its Implementation Rules; - It was ordered by letter dated 4 September 2015 prior to the holding of a group hunting of wild boar, that the hunters be instructed to comply strictly with the safety rules and fire requirements for the introduction of hunting trips. During the period 3 November, 13 December 2015, a group of wild boars were hunted, inspections were carried out on 3944 hunting groups and 48 804 hunters. 2049 employees of the Regional Forest Directorates and 316 employees of the Ministry of Interior took part in the checks. Three violations for hunting by prohibited means have been detected from the checks carried out. Staff of the Executive Agency for Forests, Public Enterprises and their Territorial Divisions shall not be entitled to carry out an inspection of hunting weapons and ammunition. Such verification can only be carried out by the Ministry of Interior employees. In the future, our joint inspections with the Ministry of Interior will continue during the group hunting of wild boar in order to limit incidents and deaths in the conduct of hunting trips. In addition, perhaps because you are not a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food in the National Assembly, I can inform you that the Council of Ministers has adopted a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, which is to be passed here in the National Assembly, at first reading and then on second reading. There is nothing in this Bill to prohibit the carrying of bullet hunters with a diameter greater than six millimeters in group hunting of wild boar.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u314	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Trenchev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I am somewhat satisfied with your response. I myself have a hunting license, even though I've never practiced. It's probably the subject of another conversation, but in general you need to review the whole process of issuing a hunting permit, it's just really all a very big farce. Since we are talking about human lives and given the demographic realities in Bulgaria, we really need to do everything to prevent any such incidents in the future, as I have listed, in just two months we have more than three. Indeed, I will also make concrete proposals, and you think about how we can just somehow counteract this. This is really unacceptable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u316	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. Would you like a douche? Please, Minister Taneva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u317	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Trenchev! Yes, it is in the hands of the legislature to make whatever changes we need in this direction, we would support them. However, given the measures on the control of compliance with rules and security, we can say that although black statistics, we have progressed in this direction for 2015, for example, we have two deaths during hunting, while in 2009 there were eight of them, as well as a reduction in other incidents. Obviously there's more to be done and we would support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-02-05.u318	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question for you about today's parliamentary control. There are more questions for you to answer at the next meeting. Today's parliamentary control is over. I'm adjourning today's parliamentary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
