ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] On the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of our Rules of Procedure, I propose to you as point two for today following the dismissal of an inspector from the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council on the grounds of resignation to discuss and adopt a draft decision on the adoption of the rules of procedure for proposing a candidate for deputy ombudsman, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate for a deputy ombudsman in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. As we are known by the media, a hearing was held by the Ombudsman of the Republic. On yesterday, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held a meeting, a report was presented to us. We're about to discuss this. Since the deadlines are short, fellow Members, this requires that I urgently suggest that we include this draft decision as point two for today. Please, voting mode. Vote 148 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: EXEMPTION OF AN INSPECTOR IN THE INSPECTOR TO THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL. Mrs. Monica Malinova, with an application from 28 December 2015, submitted the following: I am elected Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council by decision of the Forty-first National Assembly of 20 December 2011 on the basis of art. 132, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 42, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 46 of the Law on the Judiciary. I took office on 19 January 2012 pursuant to art. 47 of the Law on the Judiciary. My term of office expires on 19 January 2016. On the basis of art. 48, para. 1, t. 1 of the Judicial Law, I ask to be relieved of my post before the expiry of the term of office due to the imminent use of leave due to pregnancy and childbirth. On the occasion of this request, I propose to you a draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on discharge from the position of Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 48, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Dismissed as Inspector of the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council Monica Georgieva Malinova. Are there any opinions, statements on this procedure? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the draft decision presented to you. Vote 149 MPs: for 147, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now it's going to be: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF CANDIDATE FOR EMPLOYMENT-OMBUDSMAN, PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, PRESENTATION AND RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATE OMBUDSMAN IN THE COMMISSION FOR VEROISATION AND RIGHTS OF HUMANS AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF PEOPLE'S RESTRUCTION. Mr. Velchev, we are listening to your Commission's report along with the draft decision to it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing a candidate for an alternate ombudsman, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate for a deputy ombudsman in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At an extraordinary meeting held on 13 January 2016, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the rules of procedure for the conduct of a public procedure under art. 89 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the Choice of Deputy Ombudsman. The proposed draft decision aims to adopt the General Rules of Procedure for the election of Deputy Ombudsman proposed by the Ombudsman on the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. After the discussion, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 13 votes to consider and adopt the following draft: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing a candidate for Deputy Ombudsman, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 89, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing a candidate for deputy ombudsman, the public disclosure of documents, the presentation and hearing of the candidate for deputy ombudsman in the Committee on Religions and Human Rights and the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering a candidate for deputy ombudsman and submitting his documents. 1. The proposal for a candidate for deputy ombudsman shall be made by the Ombudsman on the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The proposal shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights through the President of the National Assembly. 2. The proposal for a candidate for a deputy ombudsman shall be accompanied by written reasons, which shall also contain an argumentation for the applicant's high moral qualities. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) written consent of the applicant according to the template of Annex 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; c) a xerocopy from a diploma for completed higher education; (d) a statement in accordance with the template "Annex 2" to the decision that the applicant is eligible for the election of a Member of the National Assembly under art. 65, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 9 of the Law on the Ombudsman. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposal, together with the written reasons and documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 2. Non-profit legal entities registered for carrying out a public utility activity no later than three days before the applicant's hearing may submit opinions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on the applicant, including questions to be put to him. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights to the candidate to be referred to him. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Commission on Religions and Human Rights, or by e-mail: kvpch@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. No specific data constituting classified information shall be published and no personal data shall be published. III. A hearing of the candidate for deputy ombudsman. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidate, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall verify the documents submitted and whether the applicant complies with the requirements for taking up the post for which he is proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidate shall be represented by the Ombudsman at an exhibition within 5 minutes. The presentation also includes information on motivation, public reputation, moral qualities and public support for the candidate. 4. The applicant is given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as a deputy ombudsman in an exhibition within 10 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall present in summary the opinions and questions raised by the persons referred to in Article 2. 89, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if any. 6. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidate. The time for questioning is up to 3 minutes. 8. Reply of the applicant after the questions asked by the MPs within 5 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights shall draw up within the meaning of art. 89, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision on the election of the candidate for deputy ombudsman. IV. Election of a candidate for deputy ombudsman from the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 2. The proposed candidate for deputy ombudsman is present at the meeting with a decision of the National Assembly. 3.The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. 4. The candidate for deputy ombudsman shall be represented by the Ombudsman within 5 minutes. 5. Discussions shall be held on the application under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. The candidate shall be deemed elected if he has received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly. 8. If the candidate for deputy ombudsman does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Here, colleagues, are applied the two declarations to be filled out by the candidate for deputy ombudsman under art. 65, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u3	Since there is no way to read with the data, the draft decision and together with Annex 1 and 2, these are the two declarations that are annexed to the report. We accept them as graphical because they are semigraphics with the many multiples of personal data.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u4	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u5	The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the draft decision submitted and its annexes? I won't. I vote on the draft decision to adopt procedural rules together with Annexes 1 and 2 thereto, according to the Commission report. We vote. Vote 149 MPs: 148, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Next item: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been submitted by the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented to us by the chairman of the committee Mr. Mihov. Procedure Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my procedure is to allow the Deputy Minister of Defense Mr. Dimitar Kyumurdjiev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u7	I propose to the vote the proposal for admission made in this House. Vote 127 MPs: 124 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister if he's here. Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 12 November 2015, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015. 19 MPs participated in the meeting. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence were Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova and Colonel Iliev from the Defence Policy Directorate. Also present is Prime Minister of National Security Advisor Anu Angelov. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Kyumurdzhiev. People's representatives Angel Naydenov, Valentin Radev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Atanas Zafirov, Yanko Yankov, Petar Slavov, Vladimir Toshev, Hristo Gadzhev, Korman Ismailov and Miho Mihov took part in the discussion. The draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces establishes a statute of law under which part of the activities of the armed forces, in particular the implementation of Air Police tasks by the Air Force, will be able to be carried out jointly with forces and funds and NATO. In their majority, the MPs agreed that in the critical situation created in the Air Force with the lack of proper flight equipment, the proposed amendment of the Defence Act and the armed forces is an additional guarantor for the performance of the airspace security tasks. This change in the Law is also in line with the recommendations of the NATO High Level Meeting in Wales in 2014 to enhance the airspace security capabilities of the eastern flank of the Alliance and ensure better interaction within the Integrated Air and missile protection system. In the course of the discussion, some of the MPs expressed great concern about the possible consequences for the Air Force related to delaying the implementation of the renovation, modernisation and even delaying the acquisition of a new aircraft. In the interest of an analysis of the results of the public consultation initiated by the Ministry of Defence of the amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, a negative response was given. In the context of the discussion, the Defence Committee was informed of the experience in the security of the national airspace of other countries, taking into account the presence or absence of its own aviation. In discussing the proposed changes, the MPs discussed the link between national sovereignty and our belonging to the system of collective protection and security within NATO. After the discussion was concluded, 19 MPs took part in the vote. As a result of the vote, the Defence Committee, with 15 votes, has adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the proposed amendments and additions to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mrs. Grozdanova, if you'd like to introduce him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u10	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015. At a regular meeting held on 25 November 2015, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Mr. Nikolay Nenchev At the Wales Summit, the Heads of State or Government of the Alliance's Member States issued a recommendation reaffirmed by the defence ministers from their meeting in Brussels in February 2015, on the need to conduct a joint mission to enhance the airspace security capabilities of the countries of the eastern flank of NATO, including Bulgaria. With the proposed amendments to art. 130 of the Draft Law shall be established on a provisional basis under which part of the activities of the armed forces, in particular the carrying out of airspace security tasks by the Air Force, will be able to be carried out jointly with forces and funds and the allies of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Two hypotheses have been considered: 1. The terms and conditions of the joint action shall be agreed in an international agreement. 2. Outside of the cases under point (c) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) of the second subparagraph of Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) and (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1 or, if necessary, to take urgent action.. under conditions and by order defined by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Defence. The Government shall also be entrusted with the assessment of the authorisation of the passage through or the residence of allied forces in the territory of the Party for the performance of tasks arising from an allied contract. This power is enshrined in art. 12 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces. In view of its functions under the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, this procedure is intended to be initiated on a proposal from the Chief of Defence in order to take urgent measures to ensure and protect the security of the country and the population. In the event of such a need, considered in a military operational aspect, the NATO member states should immediately, individually and in agreement with the other members, take the action they consider necessary to restore and maintain security. The implementation of the Alliance's airspace security activities is within NATO's integrated air and missile defence system, which operates under the command and control of NATO military authorities. With changes in art. 28 An amendment to the arrangements relating to the use of weapons and ammunition shall be proposed in cases where this is necessary in carrying out joint airspace security. Changes are dictated by the need to create a legal framework that provides sufficient guarantees that the tasks will be performed in full and taking into account national interests. The opportunities for implementing joint action on airspace security. The subject of the bill will be carried out under the terms of an international treaty or a decision of the Council of Ministers. It is therefore proposed to exclude them from the scope of the Law on passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied and foreign armed forces. In this sense is also the proposal to change art. 4 of the same Law. The overall picture of the monitoring and coordination of actions in the airspace of the Member States is carried out at the NATO Air Operations Unit in Torrechon, Spain. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, resulting in 12 votes for the draft, 1 vote against the draft and 2 votes abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. The Minister, I understand, will be involved if necessary, in the discussion. So far, there are two MPs who have submitted requests for speeches " Atanas Zafirov and Angel Naydenov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria." Let, if there is, the other parliamentary groups also make a wish so that the speeches can be alternated. Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will begin my speech with a small provocation aimed not at offending or offending anyone, but rather to awaken someone's sleeping consciences. On August 31, last year, at a solemn ceremony at the Shauliai Air Force Air Force air base, the Norwegian contingent adopted the leadership of Erpolising over the Baltic. The four Hungarian fighters will act jointly with four German fighters, distributed at the Estonian Air Force Base, Amari. So far, nothing new. Come on now let's move mentally in mid-2016 when, according to the commander of the Air Force General Radev, the last opportunity will expire for Bulgaria to be on duty on its own. Let's look at one possible, I stress, a possible title in the Turkish press: At a solemn ceremony in the air base "Banderma" the Turkish Air Force accepted the leadership of erpolising over Bulgaria. The four Turkish fighters F-16 will act jointly with four Greek Mirages. The Bulgarian country will cordially provide its defenders with airports, radars and service personnel, as well as, of course, solid pay. The Turkish generals thanked their Bulgarian colleagues for their trust and assured them that they were ready to stop any Russian aircraft that dared to enter the NATO sky for 17 seconds. The headmaster... [[GERB lines.]] I said virtually. The head of the Bulgarian delegation gave the kind hosts bibliographical rarity. Nedyalkov "History of the Bulgarian military service" and they in turn delighted their guests with the screening of the cash film of TV "Al Jazeera." Unfortunately, the allied pilots from the Greek Air Force invited to the celebration failed to attend the nice ceremony because they were busy intercepting several misguided Turkish fighters. [[Radio and laughter.]] Now, if we're really responsible politicians, we shouldn't laugh at this scenario, we should think about whether he's really that absurd. First of all, what about the proposed Bill guarantees that someone will be on duty with our pilots and not instead of them? This, I think, is the first important question to be answered. What does it mean, Minister? If we give out airports, fuel, radar, logistics and feed foreign pilots, is that joint? In fact, colleagues, neither in the reasons nor in the Bill are read what exactly is meant by the Joint Guard. Are these amplifying forces, or will foreign fighters directly take on this function? Because, colleagues, I will still allow myself to quote General Radev: "Everyone who has come to carry combat duty outside will guard territory while Bulgarian pilots defend Rodina. Two unparalleled things. Dear MPs, for 20 years someone has been trying to turn us into territory. They robbed our land, our industry, they destroyed our health care and education, they destroyed our social systems. Now they're about to take our sky and with it our last drop of honor and national dignity. And notice we're about to make this betrayal based on what do you think? Based on some kind of recommendation. At the meeting in Wales, the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the Alliance, recommend the need to conduct a joint mission to strengthen the airspace security capabilities of the countries of NATO's eastern flank, including Bulgaria, as recommended by us to cut our missiles, close our reactors, break our agriculture and liquidate our culture. The second big question: why did we not get an answer to the question in the Defence Committee what does the analysis of the results of the public discussion announced by the Ministry of Defence of the proposed Draft? Moreover, a negative response was given. It's in the Commission report. I mean, there's no such thing as an analysis. Colleagues, there won't be any such analysis, because I'm sure what the results would be in it. The Bulgarian society clearly does not share the proposed changes. Moreover, it takes them as a form of national betrayal. Where's your sovereign position, Minister? Third: what requires the adoption of such a change in this Law today? When are you lying, Mr. Nenchev? When two days ago you promised us that by the end of the year Bulgaria would have a very good fighting squadron, which will obviously be enough to carry out the erpolising mission, or today, when you ask us to adopt a law that must be passed due to the critical condition of the Bulgarian fighter aviation? Or you will come up with that ridiculous statement by one of the MPs from GERB, who said that we accept it, notice.................... just in case....................................................... Fourth question: do you know, fellow Members, which countries will we be aligned with today? Iceland, Luxembourg, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. With all due respect and respect to their economies, but countries with no military traditions and zero military aviation history. Bulgaria with one of the first air bombings and 230 battle planes until 25 years ago! I ask especially the officers, generals and admirals in this room, is that where we belong? Is that where we belong?? I would like to remind you that in just a week's time, there are 103 years of the first air strike in the air of a warship. On January 22, 1913 the pilot Lieutenant Milcho Mitev with the Italian volunteer Sabelli flew over the Marmara Sea, discovered and bombed the Turkish armadillo. Don't these historical facts wake anything up in us anymore? Fifth: why does no one say how much this will cost the Bulgarian taxpayer or someone think that these planes will come free in the name of high Euro-Atlantic ideals? Not to turn out, colleagues, that it is more profitable to buy new engines and modernise our MiGs than to pay for the loss of air sovereignty. How can we not understand what it means to give this opportunity legally? This means that the most valuable capital of the Air Force people, with their preparation and competence, the flight, engineering and technical staff will be neglected at the expense of foreign ones, which, among other things, dear fellow-nats, undermines and the fundamental principle for NATO each country to generate capabilities and be able to provide its protection. And here I will take the liberty of quoting another worthy Bulgarian officer Lieutenant Colonel Nikolay Rusev, a MiG-29 pilot who, in his interview, says: "By living with the thought that in the whole country you are taking off only you and another pilot armed with rockets, and flying, and doing it not for honor and glory, and not for money, but because something inside you keeps you from serving this country, this society and this country, you feel needed. And whether others feel necessary, that is another matter. That's it, guys! These are our pilots and patriots who today we are ready to betray. And the sixth, but not the last, but perhaps the most important: does not the proposed bill represent today a gross violation of the Constitution, where in art. 2 is written that the territorial integrity of the Republic of Bulgaria is inviolable; in art. 5: The Constitution is a supreme law, and the other laws cannot make reference to it, but art. 9 states: "The Armed Forces guarantee the sovereignty, security and independence of the country and protect its territorial integrity. Period! Nowhere is there a joint effort, a joint effort, a case-by-case effort, and Wells. To conclude, I have no doubt that today you will accept these amendments to the Law. I have no doubt that long and irrigation will disprove each one of my own. But this, gentlemen and ladies of the ruling majority, will not change my main conviction that today, exactly 55 years after Professor Peterson's death. Tsvetan Lazarov, the most productive Bulgarian air designer and scientist in the field of aviation, you give way to another death of the Bulgarian fighter aircraft and with it part of our national dignity, state sovereignty and identity. Me and my colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria and we cannot be accomplices in this disgraceful case. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Now it's lines. Mr. Karakachanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u14	Since today we are having a serious debate, I call for less pathetics and more pragmatism, because everything that my colleague Zafirov said in most of his part is true. But if a colleague had said that, who entered from a party that was created three days ago and entered parliament yesterday, I would have taken it as a pure coin, true and accurate. However, Mr. Zafirov, you represent this party, which for the past 25 years, in at least three or four governments, ruled together. You spoke very correctly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u15	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u16	Please, please! Don't remind me! Please, please! All these years, all the governments have worked to destroy this army, in fact, for what you say. But you represent the party, which literally in the last 10 years, when very important things happened for the Bulgarian defence, was in power. I would like to remind you that Mr. Stanishev's mandate changed the Constitution with which we gave up the military service. You didn't mention it, I didn't hear it as an argument for national betrayal to the Armed Forces and Defense of Bulgaria. I can also tell you about the Bulgarian aviation, about Edirne, I can tell you about the torpedoation of If you need historical lectures I am here for you, but let's talk pragmatically about the actual state of the Bulgarian army. It is tragic, it is humiliating both for the Armed Forces and for a country like Bulgaria, but in the way that you are putting the questions, it is just as if someone had just entered the policy by a party created last night. Don't do that! Such a debate is not constructive. That's my appeal, that's my line. You spoke: gentlemen of the Nazis. Excuse me, but if memory serves, the BSP is still officially for Bulgaria's membership in NATO. You're talking about cutting up the missiles. Personally, in this Parliament, I have opposed the cutting of the missiles, one of the few people from the then majority that we have opposed. Don't throw everything against the current leadership of the state and the Ministry of Defence, because the defeat of the army, what you say about Turkey, I didn't go to apologize for the revival process in Ankara, in Istanbul at rallies with the then leaders of the DPS. Let's be more constructive, more clear...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u17	Mr. Karakachanov, time is up, make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u18	...and when we talk about the army and the armed forces, let's talk like Bulgarians, not just emotionally, not just looking for cheap political dividends. In essence, however, you have said many true things. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u19	More lines? There are a few. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zafirov, here I have heard from you historical facts, supposed titles that you may think can come out. I define it as a diagnosis of complete amnesia on your part, and I'll tell you why. Just two years ago, by your government of Oresharski, with the help of BSP, DPS and attack, I repeat, and the cradle of aviation was liquidated. Bozhurishte Airport was liquidated with a very dirty deal. You're king of the trades, so you've ruined the country for 20 years, and you've ruined aviation. Do I need to talk here, from this tribune, about who's responsible for the sale of all aviation and Vointex, all 40 airports, 150 planes for two thousand levs?! Do we have to tell each other who ruined the air force and the army again?! Who made us have no army to cease military service?! Which is a crime to the state, and I say it most responsible here, from this tribune, especially in the current situation. How are we supposed to defend the state if we don't have any soldiers? Young people see where they're going... There is no barracks.. what is mandatory in every country. It was you who destroyed him from here, from this tribune, to weep for ruining himself, that others would guard our airspace!? I don't know how connected you are to aviation. I've been connected since I was a kid. I have to tell you, what you've done with aviation, there's no way we can fix it now and in a year or two. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Amnesia, total amnesia with you. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u21	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Toshev. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Zafirov, I have a few specific questions for you. Since you are talking about many battle planes, about Turkish and Greek fighters above the Bulgarian sky, I would like to ask you................................... I don't have time, you'll explain what it is. How many Russian planes or Soviet planes were there then? Two: who signed the protocol to dissolve the Warsaw Treaty? Third: who signed the protocol for cutting the SS-20 and who was the Prime Minister and Prime Minister then? Fourth: who initiated the first steps for Bulgaria's entry into NATO? Next: what are NATO member states? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] No, no, write down and respond here to people, because otherwise what you're saying is wild populism. [[Laughter at GERB.]] The next thing: who was the Minister of Defence for the so-called "possessed Wells 2014" - what was decided then - what is now being implemented with this Bill? And the other thing is, and I'm done, because I asked you a lot of questions, and I wouldn't allow myself to talk about hockey in Bulgaria that long and incompetently. Please don't talk about defense! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u23	Mr. Zafirov has the floor for the back. A lot of questions have piled up. Come on in for your douche bag.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u24	I expected at least one general to stand up, but Colonel's not too short. [[Noise and lines by GERB and BSP LB.]] I must have really awakened someone's conscience. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Karakachanov. By the way, in all three lines, I didn't hear in essence any argument against mine, only something of the kind..................................why are you beating the Negroes?...................................................... [[Laughter and noise from BSP LB.]] Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to national identity, the future of the country, all such petty bickering: but you, but you that, leave them in the background, look into the future and show if you are real patriots. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Where did you hear, gentlemen, did I say anything against NATO or against Wales, so you're asking me these stupid questions?! And in terms of the 82th, do you want me to tell you what the difference was? Yeah, I know how many there were, but the difference was that they came and left after a few days, and these guys, when they come, they're never gonna go away, you know that thing?! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] And you, sir, you and Bozhurishte started and ended the last parliament, and that's what you've decided. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u25	We're moving on to the speeches. To alternate the parliamentary groups Mr. Korman Ismailov has the floor, then Mr. Angel Naydenov, Velizar Enchev. I've recorded the next ones, I'll announce them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The essence of this debate, honourable Members on the left, I would like to address you because... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] They can't hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u27	I ask for silence so that the speakers can develop their arguments. Take your seats. Here you are, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u28	I expect an answer to the most important question from my colleagues on the left: do they want the Bulgarian air force, the Bulgarian NATO aircraft to have the opportunity with airplanes of other partner countries, mainly and mainly European countries, NATO, together to guard both Bulgarian airspace and NATO airspace, or is that a problem for them? Here statements were made from artistic fiction, brought water from ten rivers to find arguments for some thesis. For me, this is the answer, and I think this is the debate and the political clash today on this subject. For me, those who will support these legislative changes are the pro-European, pro-NATO majority, and those who will oppose non-existent, fictional arguments will be the Nenatovo minority, I will not say the anti-NATO minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u29	Is there any line to that statement? I won't. The next statement is from Mr. Angel Naydenov, after him Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u30	I want a time extension.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u31	The time of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will be extended, respectively to the others. Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In a situation other than today's wretched state of Bulgarian aviation, I am convinced that the discussion, interest and passions for the proposal, which was made by the Council of Ministers, would be only on the axis of "for" and "against" the membership of Bulgaria in NATO. I realize it's basically a difference. It cannot fail to influence the debate, but at this moment it seems inappropriate to be the only starting point. Because even if we have this debate throughout the parliamentary groups, we will not reach a final, complete and realistic solution related to the defence and security of Bulgaria. One. Secondly, it seems to me that we still need to concentrate on the arguments on the concrete proposal made for a change in the Defence and Armed Forces Act. I think that we should go from the following point of view: the Air Polysing mission is a peaceful task of protecting the airspace within the NATO Integrated System, part of which is Bulgaria and the Bulgarian airspace. That is, in this case, we have functions for the Bulgarian Air Force, which are part of the common efforts within the Integrated System, which is a common airspace, respectively shared responsibility. It seems to me that the following should be taken into account here: in the legislation of all or almost all countries or, respectively, in the regulatory documents of these NATO countries, there is an option as proposed by the Council of Ministers, albeit in different forms. There is therefore nothing unnatural, at least from this point of view, in the fact that it is possible to carry out such a mission with the support of the air force of allied states. By the way, these examples at the moment with regard to the system in force are many. We should also view this opportunity as an option that increases experience, compatibility, accordingly develops acquired abilities for the Bulgarian Air Force, respectively for the Bulgarian crews. And nothing wrong at some point the Bulgarian Air Force should be supported by the forces of the Allied States. Thirdly, we must not forget the fact that we are the active party. We invite, we define the terms, we take the final decision within an international treaty or respectively in a subsequent decision of the Council of Ministers, which is also subject to control. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let us bear in mind one more thing. Bulgaria is in a unique situation. We are the only country whose Air Force is being questioned. There is no analogue within the NATO member states. Yes, it is true, there are countries and they were pointed out by my colleague the honourable MP Zafirov, who do not own their own air force and alternately take over the functions under the "Air Polysling" from other countries. For example, since 7 January, as regards the airspace of Baltic States, this function has been taken over by Belgium and Spain. Of course, there are countries that also have the function of so-called joint patrols. For example, Albania, Slovenia, respectively, is carrying out this mission under joint patrol with Greece and Romania, but no one in this room wants us to fall to the level of countries that have not owned or possessed capabilities with regard to the air force. For other NATO countries, it is unnecessary to talk. They do not have this question about the future of their air force. This future is guaranteed there, unlike Bulgaria. What kind of trouble is that? The first problem was pointed out that this text, which is offered to us, enables Bulgaria to participate only with the ground-based monitoring system, for control, for command and management, without the participation of our aircraft. It's a real fear, or a fear, let's say, that was expressed by the traitors. Secondly, it makes it possible for the so-called air-ordering, i.e. Bulgaria to not participate in its combat aviation at some point. What are the concerns that give rise to these problems? Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, it was no accident that I started with the hypothesis that in another situation other than the current miserable situation in the Bulgarian Air Force, we would have spoken differently. The first concern is that behind this proposal lies the end of Bulgarian military aviation. The concern is that this is a sort of alibi covering the inability of the executive to guarantee the present and future of Bulgarian military aviation, and of course not least that this is a solution which, if approved by the National Assembly, will ensure the performance of functions within the integrated system, but without timely solutions that ensure the technical and operational fitness of the Bulgarian Air Force. I'm sorry, but I'm really going to ask in the way that the people representative Zafirov did it is, isn't that a shame with more than the 100-year-old glorious history of the Bulgarian Air Force?! I'm not going to dwell here anymore on the technical state of aviation right now. This is a discussion, a public discussion, and each of the MPs to pain is familiar with this topic. I will not even raise the question of what is the opinion of the command of the Air Force and the command of the Bulgarian Armed Forces, in particular of the Bulgarian Army. I am convinced that they are people who would not accept these decisions, which to some extent can put a cross to the Bulgarian air combat aviation. It seems to me that the issue that has been addressed in terms of payment as an option in the international treaty also deserves attention. Because if we have money to pay for this patrol, security, joint activity, why not direct the funds to Bulgarian aviation to further support the efforts related to the technical fitness and readiness of the Bulgarian Air Force?! What would be the solution? A text that could guarantee, whether in the Law, whether in the Transitional and Final Provisions, but to guarantee an appropriate advantage for Bulgarian aviation, a priority for Bulgarian aviation in the performance of the joint functions, to outline the leading role of the Bulgarian side and the Bulgarian crews. This will most respond to all concerns, concerns and reservations related to the concerns and concerns about the Bulgarian Air Force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. - What's the line? I won't. The next statement is from Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I hold in my hand the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, but I essentially hold in my hand a law on the liquidation of the military aviation of Bulgaria, a law on national humiliation, and perhaps, which is the most important law on discrediting the North Atlantic NATO Pact as an organization that applies double standards to the members of the Pact. The same NATO, the same United States of America, which is a decisive factor in this military organization, exactly two years ago in December, gave out of their reserves on the territory of the European continent 350 battle machines for the Greek land forces. I stress that they have given together with the spare parts, without the Greek state paying a single penny, except for the means of transport. Yes, NATO has double standards. And all of you here, who declare themselves as Natovets, on the right, in the center and on the left, should know that today, we are commenting on the failure of the NATO cause or, more precisely, the humiliation of Bulgaria from this organization. After we liquidated the rocket troops of the Republic of Bulgaria after sinking the submarine fleet of the Republic of Bulgaria, the order of the military aviation, the fighter aviation of the Republic of Bulgaria, was evident. That is why today is a shameful day, but not for the Bulgarian Air Force, but for those MPs who will vote on this Law in fifteen to twenty minutes. Ten years after Bulgaria's accession to NATO, I must say, Bulgaria is about to be honored with the shameful honour of being the sixth NATO state that will be able, more precisely, not to be able to and will admit that it cannot defend its airspace. The countries have been listed, but let me state for the third time who they are, as some truths must be repeated. Bulgaria will rank in a group of countries that either have controversial statehood or which have just received their statehood, or countries with which we have always compared ourselves to a slight irony and leniency: Albania with liquidated military potential; Luxembourg, a country that does not have an army; Iceland, an island state, almost without an army; Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, with a 25-year statehood and, of course, with a policy that really requires NATO protection. Another question is whether this hysterical russophobic policy is correct. Dear colleagues, today we are actually going to comment on another shameful fact: we will remain not only without fighter aviation, but we will be proud to remain with transport aviation. That is, in the coming years we will talk that we have military transport aviation with the planes of Spartan, the drivers of Cougar and Panther, i.e. military transport aviation, which is used to transport smoked meat for the military conflicts, in which with great ease both left and right in Bulgaria, brought it into recent years, especially after 2003, when we entered the Iraqi adventure, when everyone in this parliament, centre and left, voted for this criminal operation, condemned by former US President George Bush himself and former military minister Donald Russell, and former Secretary of State Powell, who said they were being misled by Central Intelligence. Here I would like to ask the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev: will he confirm his words, which he said at the last Council for National Security with the President, I quote: "The protection of our sky will be done with the powers and means of Bulgaria's elected NATO allies." In other words, it has been clarified that if our country does not specifically say whose aircraft they want to protect it, NATO command can decide this on an official basis. Is that true, Mr. Nenchev, and I ask you very much to answer this question? I also ask Minister Nenchev: which foreign country or group of foreign countries do you propose to protect the Bulgarian sky with its military aviation and how much will the annual maintenance of an squadron cost, say, or less than a squadron? Twenty million euros or 20 million. lv.? I have this information, which is indicative, because it is informal, from Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia, mostly acquired from the Internet. Who's gonna provide me with a consult with Air Generals or as General. Mihov, who gave me this question, the maintenance and logistics of Bulgarian military airports at this foreign squadron, shall we say, Italian? Us or them? Of course, the wages will be paid by us. It's a pity Mr. Peevsky isn't here in the front row. I'd like to ask Mr. Peevsky. Three days ago, information came out in his newspaper, which should have led us to ask him to be present in the room. Radev, Commander of the Air Force. Well, still in. "Telegraph, you know very well, is a pro-government newspaper and everything written in it, which is not convenient for the government, is obviously true, as the DPS cannot be any party other than supporting the government. In this publication of c. I'm reading, Telegraph. There's a lot of tension between genes. Radev and Minister Nenchev because of the emergency situation in the Air Force of Bulgaria. [[The President signals that time has run out]] . Mr. Chairman, I ask you very much to give me one more minute, since yesterday [[crowd cheering, cheering and saying]] , yesterday when reading your declarations Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva gave 2 minutes each. to each of the political forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u35	Please, Mr. Enchev, literally in ten to fifteen seconds to be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u36	Mr. General Radev insists on withdrawing, it is absolutely necessary to withdraw the Law on Defence and Armed Forces with these amendments and, above all, to withdraw the proposal for the Air Polising.He believes that this is not in the interest of both the Bulgarian Air Force and the defence system of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u37	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u38	Please do not apply double standards to MEPs from the parliamentary forces, to independent MPs. I speak for all independent representatives...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u39	Double standards don't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u40	Not to you! At least to you, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u41	One minute you had more to complete your quote. The next statement is by Dimitar Bayraktarov. After him, Stanislav Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, theme, favorable for emotions, for populism [[a line from the MP from GERB]] , demagogy, reminds me, Mr. Admiral, and at the same time, a subject extremely heavy, I suppose, for many of the people present who have probably served in the Air Force and in the Air Force, as I have served, too, a man who... [[Replying and shouting, raging.]] Air Force and Air Force, I said! The Air Force, unfortunately, almost every day I walk past the sad view of the unit in the village of Tsaratsovo, 125 complexes, rockets, only the antennas are sticking out, but the Unk-cab, master class, with these two hands in 1984 I was building under the direct direction of the commander of the Air Force and Air Force Lieutenant General Zhelyazkov the command post of the already existing military airport in Gabrovnitsa. [[Radio.]] Yes, colleagues, we can say a lot, a lot of things we can say. Some of us have not only sworn and guarded the air space of Bulgaria, but we have also participated in the overthrow of enemy aircraft. [[crowd cheering, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u43	How many planes did you shoot down?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u44	That's another topic. [[Relations and excitement.]] That's not the point. We've heard a lot of talk, but we haven't heard any solutions. Yes, it is difficult today, when in your ears the words: "The Great is our soldier." I would add the Bulgarian sergeant, sergeant and officer! I'd like to put a few accents on you, fellow Members. In fact, where have all these speakers been over the years, when the military airport in Gabrovnitsa, the military airport in Bratovo, the military airport and the base around Ravnets, when the entire base of our army was looting from the gypsy raids and disappearing in front of our eyes property, which could bring an awful lot of funds from proper management? All those who now hear you speak were silently silent. But these are the realities. Those are the realities! In fact, someone here tried to ask questions about how much it would cost. Before that, however, the more up-to-date question follows: and to this day, was the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria effectively guarded by several blabbering, morally outdated, technically and technologically outdated fighter planes? Was it effectively guarded? No! It's the sad truth that we have to admit today with pain. The question follows: should we continue to imitate security of our airspace with this morally outdated fighting technique, and in some of the former countries of the Warsaw Treaty, even adopted, unfortunately, the notion of military exhibits? Already many of MiG-21, MiG-23, MiG-27, that even MiG-29 are museum exhibits [[speaking indistinctly]] As strange as that sounds. I can give you a reference. This is clearly of no interest to some of you. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]] From now on, don't call Zafirov, because you don't even have an anti-aircraft haber, you don't even have a hal haber, because the airspace is guarded not only by air, it's guarded by ground roads. Except the signature on the destruction of the anti-aircraft missile complex was from that guy, your president. He gave the start to the destruction of the anti-missile complexes. Not me and not someone here on the right, the one yours. He gave the start to become a NATO member state and to be an ally state in NATO. Now the big question is: what will it cost us if we have to go into the rhetoric of the speakers on the left and behind, supposedly independent, on which nothing depends? First, I ask them if they will take the big responsibility, for example, for the state to withdraw 20 billion. BGN to buy new planes? Will they take that responsibility? Of course they won't take it. On the contrary, they're going to tear down the state for withdrawing a loan to protect our airspace. Will they take responsibility to withdraw several billion more for technical and personnel service and maintenance of this technique? Of course they won't take that responsibility. You will not hear a decision on these matters. You'll hear wild populism and demagogy. From now on, really, and I admit to myself, we have to make the tough decision, are we going to guard our airspace effectively or are we going to continue with the imitation and bury ourselves, with an excuse, heads like ostriches in front of reality? So, what's the solution? What's the solution? It's hard to answer, it's hard to admit that when you feed someone else's army, it's not good, whether it's two or three or five planes. However, we have signed an alliance treaty, yet there are many subtleties in these things in how it will be carried out. We expect to receive any moment now, if memory serves, equipment engines. [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Nenchev]] . Even the Minister reminds me here that they have been received. In other words, we have the opportunity not to resort at all to this possibility provided for in the Law, something that no one is talking about. I hope that we will not resort to this opportunity, but we must provide it in case of extreme need. I will ask the Minister to give some more information on these issues, however, because I think this is more important for making the right decision. From there it's all demagogy, talk, talk. There's a general in charge of the Air Force. I think the words I said will be confirmed by him, too, because this is the reality of inefficient security of our airspace, lack of fighting technique, and the scarier thing is that we are no longer training footage pilots to work with this technique. Where are the funds for the Military School that had to produce flyers over the years? Where were you on the left, how did you get them? Finally, in order to stop speculation about how much it would cost us and how much it wouldn't cost us, Budget 2016 was adopted in early December and all funds are scheduled per pen and each of you knows how much it is intended for defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u45	Thank you. Are there any lines to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement? I won't. I'll read you the ones that are written down. If there's anyone else out there, let them give us a sign. By "Ataka" "The People's Representative Stanislav Stanilov; by GERB "Vladimir Toshev; by ABB "Miho Mihov; by the Patriotic Front "Milen Mihov; by "BSP left Bulgaria" "Valery Zhablyanov." I'm also recording Mr. Yanko Yankov. Come in for a speech, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u46	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, we will vote against this Draft Law, although we know that this decision is irrational and all the arguments for the adoption of this Law, of course, with some proposals for supplements from the left or from the centre here, must be adopted because there is no other way out. There are times in this National Assembly when we adopt laws and when discussing them, there is a truth that no one will deny, but no one will pour ashes on their head. For 25 years the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian Armed Forces were completely destroyed, which violated the meaning of the Bulgarian Constitution with the consent of all political forces. Because the Bulgarian Armed Forces, according to the Bulgarian Constitution, should be in such a state as to preserve territorial integrity, independence, honor, dignity and so on, as is the formula. Bulgaria does not have such Armed Forces and they were destroyed and were not restored even after our entry into NATO, even more the destruction continued. We don't have the Navy. What we're using are naval grandmothers. Our land units don't have enough armored equipment to protect the territory. Our artillery is weak, the anti-aircraft forces exist only formally. The anti-aircraft defence (ATF) in the territory is saturated only with old technique. This happened at the request and at the request of our Western allies and the reason I am talking about the protocol is that we are being treated with contempt because we are not one of them. It's a geocultural collision. Tens and hundreds of thousands of pages have been written on this issue. We're just not one of them, and they'll never accept us for it. So they will always protect a territory here, not one Homeland, one country, one country. Under the historical circumstances we are Slavs, we are Orthodox, we are Bulgarians and we belong to another geoculture. That's why they'll never accept us as equals amongst them. Remember that! That's why our Armed Forces are destroyed, they're absent from the country. There can be all kinds of contradictions and all kinds of quarrels and all sorts of arguments. Today we are voting on one of the sign laws of what we have agreed, what we continue to agree on, how we will live on and change anything. I am not sure that the European Union will continue to exist, and NATO may one day spill out. Then, without the Armed Forces, without protection, what will we be? We're not representing anything! We're really gonna be a ward of the land. As you speak on the right, and you on the left, you were all in agreement with the destruction of the Republic's Armed Forces and the violation of the Constitution, and no one wants to say it. So I won't talk anymore. I'm speechless. It's an eloquent argument. Everything that is said here is said on the upper level, no one is looking for the basis of this condition that we are in. Wake up, for one day our constituents and yours and yours will be angry, and yours will pull out the clubs and drive us out of everywhere. You bet your ass it is! Mostly about the state of national security in the seventh year the Prime Minister of Bulgaria is not talking about whether it is Borisov, whether it is Stanishev or Oresharski, who is it, the seventh year in the National Assembly of Constitution is not the annual report on the state of defence of the Republic. Seven years! I have asked the Prime Minister a question and he hasn't answered me for a month. That's what I asked Stanishev in 2006. Then they read a report like this. Now this report is missing about the state of national security. [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Nenchev.]] The defense, in your opinion, Mr. Minister, is not part of national security? [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Nenchev.]] Separately, well, defense has always been part of this report. I remember the texts very well, and I have written an article on this subject. [[Reply from Minister Nikolai Nenchev.]] You're right, but this report, the whole important one, hasn't been imported, and it hasn't been imported on purpose. It wasn't deliberately imported! Not that the Prime Minister wants to violate the Constitution. No! It is simply embarrassing to read such a report to the entire people, to the entire National Assembly. It is embarrassing because the state of national security in Bulgaria is pathetic. Deny it, it's pathetic! Tell me we're sure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u47	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. For a line, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u48	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Stanilov, honourable colleagues! I cannot accept and agree with the suggestions you make from this tribune that almost our NATO partners, from the European Union, that we are Slavs, do not allow us to develop our defense capabilities, our army does not, this is an absolutely wrong thesis. If we have the money, we can immediately buy the best machines for the Land Forces, the best planes, not F-16, and F-35 can buy, if you like, and if you need an aircraft carrier, we can buy. It is about financial opportunities and, of course, decisions that are being made here related to the budget of the Ministry of Defence and national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u49	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u50	I will answer only specifically, otherwise I can develop Mr. Korman Ismailov's thesis, but there is no point. Nobody's gonna let us buy anything, even if we have money. We'll buy what they dictate. As conscientious partners of NATO, we will obey this will be. If we have two carriers of money, no one's gonna let you buy an aircraft carrier. In addition, the pathetic condition of the Bulgarian economy is still programmed in the same way and therefore we have no money to buy anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u51	The next statement is from Mr. Toshev, after him Mr. Miho Mihov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think it is high time to end with wild populism, chauvinism, nationalism, or as you wish to call it from this tribune, because the division of our country, for which we are primarily responsible, is due precisely to what is happening in the last hour here in this Chamber. We are each, every three or four years deciding whether we are in NATO, whether we are in the European Union, or whether we are returning something old that has long died and has become self-liquidated. There were words here that most of you hardly know, for the simple reason that it wasn't their job to know them, or now they're also not that deep in this topic. We're talking about old times. I'll tell you now if any of you here in this room are ready here right now to give 10% of the gross domestic product to the army, we'll have planes and ships and new war machines and new tanks. Do you agree? However, the one of you who suggested this must decide which one to cut off from education, social activities, health care... [[Reply: "The Money of the Prime Minister. "]] The Prime Minister's money won't be enough for a battle kit of an anti-missile complex. Let's not talk nonsense, because it's just unnecessary. We are talking about national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Colleagues, the other thing I would like to remind you is that for more than 10 years we have been members of NATO and what we accept as amendments to the Constitution and legislation relating to national security, and specifically at the moment the Defence and Armed Forces Act, is an exact implementation of this agreement, which GERB, was not then there when you signed the NATO Treaty and, when the 10-year procedures took place, Bulgaria should be joined to NATO from before this peace partnership and so on. Now, here, people coming out to defend absolute lies are not wrong, but absolute lies are unworthy. I wouldn't want to inform some people who speak fictional fiction from this tribune, because even the fact of the first battle flight is not true, it's artistic fiction, but one of the first... [[Reply from BSP LB: One of the first I said!.]] I wasn't quoting you, let's go back to those lines from the hall. Colleagues, if we want to stabilize the state and every Bulgarian to live better and feel safer, we need to stop hesitating about the Warsaw treaty, we are members of NATO, Greece and Turkey too. By the way, the second army in NATO is the Turkish army by composition, by weaponry, by preparation, by combat readiness and so on. The busiest hours of NATO pilots have Turkish pilots. Unfortunately... Give it 10% and we will make the Bulgarian pilots immediately ready. However, this right here, I want to tell you, for colleagues who are outside the sphere of national security, what it means and why we are now voting on this Law, we are debating it, in a moment we will vote on it. First of all, because the procedure for buying new planes... It's absolutely nonsense that someone would tell us what planes to buy, because we're not going to buy Russian planes again. We may be offered something MiG or S &amp; D. We will discuss it, we do not know what we will buy, but most of the planes that are being discussed are from NATO countries 100%. What are we gonna do? For 8 or 16 planes, we're gonna get the NATO countries inside to kill each other, we're gonna create an internal conflict? That's out of the question. The procedure has begun. Colleagues, everyone in this House, we voted on Budget 2016 for the first time, I turn to my fellow Members on the left, we have a real increase, and this increase in defence budgets 80 million are targeted at the Air Force to launch the purchase procedure for a new fighter, or do you not remember what we voted two months ago, or one or what it was?! [[GERB's reply: "They were gone. "]] I wouldn't like to comment, I didn't get a line on what we accept and what we don't accept. In the Assembly we accept much more than it has accepted insufficiently, of course, but in the field of national security it hurts me, because although I am not a general, I am a colonel of this army I have not been, but I am a colonel of this army and I am a colonel of this army and I will die, and it hurts me because what is happening now is happening thanks to you, colleagues on the left because it was clear that we have to restructure this country, including its army and the Ministry of Interior, and the police and so on from one lev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u53	And her mother's restructuring.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u54	No, it's not us, Mr. Mikov, you're her... [[Uncensory expression. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u55	Please judge the terms...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u56	I don't judge because people who have led this country to this position are throwing lines: the mother and -- and -- and -- and it's insulting to me, and I guess to most of my colleagues here in this room, because we have this country -- A transition period or I don't know how to say it, all these years... And I'm telling you again, while we hesitate every two or four years whether we are in NATO or not, we will be in this class because this is our country. Colleagues, we have now given up sovereignty when we have signed a NATO treaty and when we have signed a treaty for the European Union, and now we are specifying exactly what should happen to our airspace duty, is very specific and we are wasting our time talking more on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u57	Are there any lines to Mr. Toshev's statement? Here's a line, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u58	I'm just going out to say let's try to avoid speculation. In our political reality here for 20 years anyone who has given some criticism to this path, which Bulgaria is walking on and by separate parameters of our policy, starts to be called: "You want Warsaw Treaty, you want SIV, you want communism. That's bullshit. Mr. Toshev, we must have some honor. I didn't write a single line in my life about Marxism, I wasn't a member of the compart and all that. And in principle, I think what's past is an experiment that is monstrous, incredible, wrong, stupid, and has done great harm to the Fatherland. Like now, the liberal doctrine experiment is doing the same harm. However, let's talk real. You say, "There is no alternative." We claim that there is and one day history will decide whether there is, because in 1940 and 1941 again only ten were the people who were opposed to what was going on and then others hung on the gallows. Remember that!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u59	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u60	Colleagues, from a generally technical and expert problem, we have turned it here into a global national policy and Balkan policy. I would like to remind you, Professor, in response to your reply that in 1944 Bulgaria was in the tens of European economies, that the Pension Fund was three times richer than Bulgaria's budget. [[a line from MP Stanislav Stanilov]] that our army was one of the most ready in the region and that Greece was then much further back in every respect from Bulgaria. The other thing I want to tell you, Professor, is that right now in our parking lot, there's not a single Russian car, that none of our sons or grandchildren here are learning in Russian republics. [[a line from MP Stanislav Stanilov]] And we want to fly on old Russian planes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u61	One thing Grandma knows, one thing she does.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u62	We continue with the speeches. Mr. Miho Mihov of the ABC Parliamentary Group. Come in, you have the floor. Then Mr. Ianko Iankov, since the DPS didn't speak. Mr. Mihov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u63	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking the floor after I gave the report to the Defence Committee. From him you have heard that there are four MPs who do not support this Bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which consists of three members. And here we really started to analyze Bulgaria's entire military policy over the last 25 years, which I think is not right. Obviously, we have only one problem for this moment, for today's National Assembly, and this is the performance of the airspace security task on the task of Air Policy. And here, things do not come down so much to the problem, because the problem is our problem is not NATO's, although in the integrated system indirectly and directly we answer. The problem comes down to the participants in solving it. And we, the MPs, are precisely such participants in solving this problem today and in a second vote. There has never been such a problem for Bulgaria before. It is qualitatively changing union, diplomatic and military relations from this Law. Because that didn't happen with the New York Treaty, it didn't happen during World War II, when our aviation was also on the border, it didn't happen in 1953 when aviation was destroyed, it didn't happen in 1991 in the contract signed between the Warsaw Treaty and NATO in respect of ordinary armed forces. Me and the ABB parliamentary group will vote against this Bill. Why? Not because we are against NATO and our union relations with NATO and the European Union. I strongly stress it. It is because from 2004 until today, from Minister Svinarov's time to Minister Nenchev, we believe that all the defence ministers have been guilty of this problem, because they did not have the courage to insist to their governments for the exchange of aviation, for the modernisation and purchase of a new aircraft, as there was and had been, and they should have found. For not picking art. 9 of the Constitution, where with a particular verb form it is said that the armed forces are guaranteeing both yesterday and today and tomorrow. Yes, however, with today's adoption of the Law this article. 9 And is this Constitution so lightly regarded as an amendment or another interpretation?! What do you mean? Not to go on with the whole quote, but the verb form is very strong. With regard to this bill, I believe that it makes three or four suggestions or at least as many messages. The first message is to the Bulgarian public, to the Bulgarian people. He gives us and we say today that for us many-many the Constitution is not the most important, we do not defend the word. And this society cannot not learn it because it is a qualitative, new moment that does not stem from a global strategic defence review to make this decision. This is an important message to our society, which is shameful. The second message or suggestion is to our allies. Yes, you've known since the end of last year about our contribution to the collective defence system for being a consumer. With this non-question and with this Law we actually admit that we will be an eternal consumer after we couldn't make 16 aircraft recorded, here is argued, for many years the 2004 Plan, when we entered Prague summit into NATO, envisioned 72 battle planes, White Paper No 2 predicted 16 of them we didn't have three-four. And this message we are now confirming is that we do not have eight to provide the Air Polysinga. We won't talk about the new plan today, there will be time further. The third message and suggestion is the most offensive and tragic for me. We, in fact, and directly and indirectly, tell the Bulgarian pilots to our 102-year-old aviation: We can, without you, and without you we will preserve the airspace with other forces. It's a shit for our aviation school! Hard we can't give you ten planes to carry it out! So patriotically, you were preparing Bulgarian pilots! " - I am personally tragically sorry for what is happening, and for my followers and colleagues. And last but not least, the suggestion or message is to the region. From this fact, Bulgaria proves that it is not a factor on the European continent, not in Southeast Europe, but at all in the Western Balkans can not be a factor - a military factor, since it does not provide its own airspace, but is on the way of those countries that have never had aviation. It disturbs me, and we stress this vote, the inconsistent leadership of the Ministry of Defense. I even expected and I was happy to hear that the Minister said: "We will purchase new planes to ensure the self-execution of the task of Air Polysling. If that's for sure, why do we have to accept this Law? This consistency for such a ministry is indeed an important attestation for the stability of society and the security we are talking about here politically. I would really allow myself, in the process of building the legislative activity, to say that such a type of law must be preceded by the sub-normative arrangements drawn up, regulations, instructions. Because, be assured that now that we accept it, thousands and thousands of problems will arise, who will land, who will lead them, is it possible in the Black Sea aquatoria to make mistakes, collisions that will grow into our common Aegean Sea? This is important before we accept the members these regulations and instructions to have been shot, worked as an algorithm. And we will vote against because I am sure that with the adoption of this Law in the political circles and of the Ministry of Defence, the Foreign Ministry and the Council of Ministers will have a calming end, in the Integrated System we are still guaranteed, there is no need to rush to buy a new plane or new fighting equipment. Things will be postponed as they have been postponed for decades. As at the moment, the investment programme for the new aircraft is not being submitted to the Council of Ministers, working groups are being created again to seek choice and so on, God forbid we get to the next decade. In conclusion, regarding the reasons for the Law. Wells doesn't say, "Take a loan or bring in other forces." Wells says: "Strengthen the flank, strengthen it, but with your own strength! More NATO than the Bulgarian Armed Forces (Bulgarian Armed Forces)........................................................................................... And it was misinterpreted by both the President and the Foreign Minister after they returned. The only right thing was 2% of gross domestic product, which is nailed down and on which we worked. So in any case, the concern of the aviation public from which I come is very serious in relation to this Law. It really does not mean that it will be applied tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but I return to this point that the problem exists, but more importantly, what are the participants in its resolution, how we will take all the possible qualitative potential measures and hopes to solve it. In my opinion, this is a maxim, but it is very important: he who does not control the sky is in great danger of losing both the earth and the sea. Unfortunately, I can't say that the best is yet to come. I've reported it. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u64	Any lines to Mr. Mihov? First Mr. Gazhev and then Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear Mr. Mihov! For a person who, as President of the Commission, is one of the very informed people, but also an intelligent person on the subject of defence, I am a little surprised by your speech, as a person who is also familiar with the plans for preparation that came after Wales knows that it is more about increasing the joint airspace security and joint operations under the A neighbouring Romania, which, in addition to having Russian MiG aircraft purchased 2013. F-16 is continuing to change legislation in this direction and is carrying out joint tasks again with the Canadian and Portuguese Air Force. So obviously it's possible. We are not talking about Turkey here, we are not talking about Greece, we are talking about a country close enough to us, which we are usually put into a package and this is Romania. Furthermore, I think that the government has already made it clear enough that we are moving towards the renewal of fighter aviation, as we will mention again, for this year, very well you know, there are 80 million scheduled for purchase and for the launch of a purchase procedure. With the programme we adopted at the end of November, we explicitly obliged the Minister to submit the project, which is due to happen, so we are currently expecting the government to carry out what, anyway, has taken on as a commitment and this is to upgrade the Bulgarian fighter aviation with a new multi-purpose fighter. The other thing I don't understand is that when you realize yourself that the situation is bad and you're saying that it's bad to do nothing then and take nothing to help him? That won't solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u66	For the second line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u67	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Mihov! I want something very practical to say in my line. First of all, there is no way to adopt the regulatory framework to a single legal act if it is not adopted in this case the legislative amendments in question. So it cannot precede this legislative amendment, this regulation itself. I think that's pretty clear to everyone. However, I would like to return you to the particular legislative text, a legislative change that we are voting on. You've done an interesting analysis. We are currently voting on a concrete proposal, which very clearly states: let us, since we can together defend the Bulgarian sky, be able to protect it together with our partners. Because I'm thinking about something very simple. If, God forbid, we have to defend him with our partners tomorrow, and that becomes clear in the security process and they're gone while we guard him, how long will we wait for them until they get here, for example? Wouldn't it be better if they were with us, in a place I say again, God forbid such a thing should happen? So that's actually what makes this legislative change, and I don't see anything embarrassing about partners that you can protect something with, together, protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u68	Third line? A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u69	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am extremely pleased with the activity of the members of the Defence Committee and, in any case, I would like... I will not depart in bitter words. But, first of all, I said at the beginning: we are only talking about Air Polysing. We're not talking about an increase in strength, we're not talking about art. 5 of the Washington Treaty. "Er Polysing" requires 7-8 to 10 aircraft in Bulgaria. I said it was a quality diplomatic break in our common military psychology and psyche, because it would actually describe itself. So let us not confuse Romania. Romania was said to be patrolling Albania. Romania and Greece have with Bulgaria, you know, an agreement to increase efforts when we work in the Black Sea or other aquatoria. It's not defense, it's not Air Polysing. This is an increase in efforts in solving other issues that are not based on our territory. We are talking about Greece and Romania, we are increasing our efforts in the air by transmitting and accepting government. But they're not based on our territory to provide them logistically and so forth. I believe and repeat that this type of law, albeit by three articles, should be accompanied, in parallel, to draw up, without accepting, to see how things will be practical for the joint implementation of the law and the instructions and regulations. That's what I'm talking about, not their pre-admission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u70	Mr. Ianko Iankov has the floor to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u71	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Allow me to focus your attention on the concrete text that we need to adopt today and which, unfortunately, has caused inexhaustible energy from populism and a significant exit from the context of what we need to accept today. Dear colleagues, in the proposed Draft is written the following: The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is carried out by the Bulgarian Army. It is absolutely synergistic with the Constitution........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Any mention of NATO here, colleagues? See para. 2 What He Says: The Joint Actions under para. 1 shall be carried out first under conditions and by order laid down in an international treaty. "Bulgaria may conclude an international contract for joint protection of its airspace with whom it wants. This treaty is approved by the Bulgarian Parliament, honourable Members, and can be concluded by the Bulgarian government in conditions when it is necessary to leave, right or centrist. What is the connection with NATO in this case, and what new documents should we accept? I'll read a second point, colleague: "2." Outside of the cases of the need to take urgent action, which means not Air Polysling, colleagues, but means the possibility of attacking, engaging actions, of course the Council of Ministers will decide it. He could be yours, colleagues, he could be others. Depends on the situation. We preventively expand the opportunities of the Bulgarian authorities to protect the territorial integrity of the country. This is what we do in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. And the third paragraph, honourable Members: the Joint Action under para. 2, p. 2 with NATO member states are implemented within NATO's integrated air and missile defence system, according to the applicable NATO documents that we have already signed, the Bulgarian Parliament has approved them and the issue is resolved. What else do we have to do? Therefore, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this Bill with the clear awareness that we guarantee the sovereignty and national security of Bulgaria. With regard to Air Polysinga, we will continue to insist, together with colleagues from the left and from the right, that there is no difference between us, the Air Polyslinga will be carried out independently by the Bulgarian Air Force. There is a contract with Poland, there are two engines taken, we heard yesterday from the Minister that this guarantees next year the Air Policy of our Air Force, is that correct, Minister? [[Department of Defense Nikolai Nenchev nodded.]] Negotiations are being held on new engines so that such a long-term opportunity can be given. Dear colleagues, this is being abused here when we were in the Warsaw Treaty. Look, I had the opportunity then, as an officer of the Bulgarian Army, to be commander of a platoon for direct contact of the Commander of the Third Army with the territory of Bulgaria and the Warsaw Treaty. Although we had a 120-thousand army, we could not in any way guarantee in certain extreme conditions, although it was already written in the Constitution, we expected the serious intervention of the Third Ukrainian Corps to happen, honourable Members. So now the main purpose of guaranteeing Bulgaria's national security in line with global threats is our NATO membership. We must clearly and accurately reflect on this, and it is extremely important to us. However, this does not mean making artificial enemies, but it is another topic with regard to Russia and so on, we should always look for partners. This is an extremely important issue. In this particular case, we are far removed from the meaning of what we must accept, which is absolutely in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. It's about the professional army. Dear colleagues, I am one of the importers of the Law on the Professional Army in Bulgaria and I will tell you why. According to the adopted documents then, the Bulgarian army had to be 30 thousand. Every year in these educational centers, which were made, Bulgarian young people were trained for six months. If you knew what these centers had become, you'd grab onto your head! If anyone thinks they can make a soldier in six months who can protect his life in modern threats, it's very false. In the United States Army, this has been going on for four years, fellow Members! And one more thing. Then these centers would take 2,500 recruits a year, and they would wait for 70,000 to be admitted. These people couldn't think of their lives as young people and plan it because then the current Defense Act didn't allow them to leave the country and so on. That's why we accepted this, and we think it's the right thing to do. Another question is that we and this professional army, which we currently have, cannot support it, because Bulgaria's problems are quite different. Come see who's applying to the army! Only because he has the opportunity to retire early and not for anything else! What is the social status of our servicemen! This is a question on which we should think as MPs about what we currently have as quantity, to be of high quality, not people being demotivated. If we take and analyze the Landforce right now, you'll grab onto your head, colleagues. And we're talking about the Air Force. And that's where we need to think about what we need to do. We will support this bill. We believe that the government of Bulgaria, whatever it is, will at some point have the necessary responsibility to be able to do the right and adequate in accordance with the national interests of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u72	Any lines to Mr. Iankov? I won't. Mr. Milen Mihov of the Patriotic Front, then Boris Stanimirov, Valeri Zablyanov and Valentin Radev has the floor for speech. That's who signed up so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a personal assessment. Yeah, that bill's on fire. Yes, he is bitter because we Bulgarians are proud of our army; we are proud of our history; we are proud of the people who are wearing pagons today. I am convinced that we will also be proud of the future of the Bulgarian Armed Forces. What's the situation today? There is no more illustrative of the situation today than the saying: "He who does not feed his army will necessarily feed someone else's food. Who's to blame? One is justified by others, and the other is justified by the first. For 25 years all the governors have been responsible for the erosion. This is not my expression of the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Armed Forces and the Republic of Bulgaria. This will be written someday in the history books. What can we do today? Wars are won by the power of their own army. But it is never enough or more often not enough to defeat the opponent. In Anglo-Saxon military doctrines there is a maxim that never fights alone against the opponent. Today, we are arguing whether to use the capacity of the most powerful military union that we are members of NATO. Bitterness in this case must be replaced by coolness, responsibility, and reckoning. We are obliged to use our geopolitical advantage as NATO members. I would say that we in the Patriotic Front view NATO membership as a level playing field with our allies, not as Turkey's villa in NATO. The fears that NATO is equal to Turkey or the suggestion of some political parties and factors that NATO and Euro-Atlantic values are equal to Turkey, this does not correspond either to our beliefs or to our truth. Therefore, concerns that using the allied relations and the capabilities of this Union we will sell or hand over sovereignty, airspace to a southeastern state, we do not accept them. We are convinced and will support these changes only and only, provided that the stated intentions for the revival of the Bulgarian Armed Forces and, first of all, the fighter aviation of the executive power, the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister will be followed by real steps. The only way out is to use these changes only to complement and strengthen the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Armed Forces and the Bulgarian Military Aviation. We expect decisive action for the modernisation of the existing fighter aircraft and for the acquisition of a new fighter aircraft as part of a comprehensive program for the revival of the country's defence capabilities, the modernization of the Bulgarian Army and the return of the Bulgarian Armed Forces as a NATO factor in Southeast Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u74	Any lines to Mr. Mihov? I won't. The word for speech is Boris Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u75	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The recent weeks, and the recent history shows that when the Western Union is weak and the Bulgarian belonging to it is hesitant, it in Bulgaria is beginning to fight amongst others the interests of regional forces with ambitions in our region.... whether it will be Turkey, whether it will be Russia or someone else, it is equally unacceptable. That is why the decisions of Wales are of direct, direct Bulgarian national interest. We can only welcome them and watch to be in the line of these decisions because they are a direct Bulgarian national interest, they defend our sovereignty. The decision we are about to make is actually a measure for the protection of the Bulgarian sky. All those who speak of betrayal and that such a decision contains betrayal here are said strong emotional words, in fact they want to refuse the opportunity to protect the Bulgarian sky, and with much greater capacity, the huge capacity of the alliances in which we participate. In any case, it is much larger than the six or twelve MiGs we can have. It is betrayal to deny the possibility of more security in your heaven in such a situation as today's, rather than having such an option to increase the security capabilities of the sky. It is said that Bulgarian aviation has traditions. Yes, that's right. The Joint Air Policy has been used for years, for decades by all NATO and European Union member states, including countries with no less traditions in aviation than the Bulgarians. Just like joint patrols can increase the capacity, opportunities and experience of Bulgarian pilots and deepen this tradition. Speaking of tradition, history, memory, some things have been said here, I think colleagues that you on the left have at least the right to talk about it. If we go back to the heroic names of the Bulgarian aviation company of Spisarevski, Bonchev, Kondakov, Boshnakov, I can talk to you for a long time about the Bulgarian aviation tradition and the way it was destroyed long, with the names of pilots and people from their families, with the names of communist concentration camps where they were destroyed and destroyed after 9 September. That's a different subject right now. Very unpleasant speculation is about the dedication of Bulgarian sovereignty. It is about guarding the Bulgarian sky together with other countries, but entirely within the framework of the Bulgarian legislation, Bulgarian sovereignty and the Bulgarian chain of command, at the top of which the Bulgarian minister stands. All speculations that have been said here what will happen if a plane is shot down, it is possible, God forbid, to happen, to bring down an airplane that has violated the Bulgarian airspace, but this can happen only after an order of the Bulgarian Minister of Defence at Air Polysling, no matter what kind of plane it is currently carrying out. That's an ugly speculation. There is nothing revolutionary and extraordinary about the measure that we are going to vote on today. Again, it has been applied for decades in all countries. It simply increases the possibility for our security, for the security of Bulgarian citizens. We have the new planes to buy and there is money in the budget, we have the repair and maintenance of existing aviation, which is also under way, and the third line is if we need to be able to take advantage of the military union and use the joint Air Policy. In fact, is this the advantage of being in a collective security system, not just relying on ourselves, but of being able to rely on the much greater capacity of all the countries with which we are in this union?! Emotionally and very populist speculates with the topic "Turkey" and the possibility of Turkish planes guarding the sky. I think it is much more logical, if we need to implement it together with other Member States of the European Union, because it brings us together not just belonging to NATO and NATO doctrines, but also to the common security policy within the European Union. Moreover, there is even talk of a common European army at the moment. The trend in Europe is such, so let us not stress people with such speculations! We are talking about joint efforts, most likely to NATO, the European Union and the countries with which we are together in both alliances. The decision we are about to make is not a compromise, it is not something we are now taking under pressure from outside circumstances. This is a good decision, sensible, meaningful, made for decades and is made by all countries. It increases the security of the Bulgarian sky, the possibility of actions, training and capacity of the Bulgarian Air Force and is a good solution. It does not start with the current international crisis and the meeting in Wales. It has started and is being applied well before the current situation and will be applied also after this situation. Bulgaria just needs to catch up with the countries that have previously become members of NATO and give this opportunity by law as well, together with our allies, to defend our common sky and to give more security to the Bulgarian citizens, because this is the most important in the whole case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u76	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Valerie Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u77	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members! I will start with a fact mentioned in previous statements, but somehow in passing. The joint security of the Bulgarian airspace, according to the project submitted by the Council of Ministers, is envisaged to be carried out on the basis of an international treaty. Pay attention to a separate international treaty. This joint security obligation does not stem from Bulgaria's NATO membership treaty, does it?! Let us agree on this essential issue. Bulgaria's NATO membership treaty has no direct effect on this particular case. Therefore, our Council of Ministers quite logically offers us security to be carried out on the basis of a separate international treaty. The essential question arises: what is the subject of this international treaty and what is its status? Here it has already been mentioned by the MP Mr. Mihov and other MPs that this treaty contradicts the Bulgarian Constitution. This is the only reason why I believe that the Bulgarian National Assembly cannot accept such an amendment in the Armed Forces Act. The Constitution is unanimous on the question of who implements the security of territorial integrity and of the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria. If the legislator in 1991 had a different opinion, he would have written in the Constitution that he was guarded by the Bulgarian Armed Forces and Allied Forces. This issue is not irrelevant.. I would like to draw attention to the younger colleagues. The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria is not outsourcing! This is not a transport service, this is not providing a corridor, honourable Members! This has a direct bearing on the state of the Republic of Bulgaria. To statehood! This treaty affects the state of the Republic of Bulgaria! Yesterday, the political statements of the individual parties were read from this tribune before the beginning of the parliamentary session. The main pride of the ruling party, enshrined in Mr. Tsvetanov's statement, was that as a result of the government's rule, Bulgaria has come to other international heights and has received great international recognition. How will a country look to you after signing such an international treaty? You think you are raising the international authority of Bulgaria by signing such a treaty?! Is that what you think?! What does the signing of this treaty mean for every partner of Bulgaria? Incompetent government of the Armed Forces of the State that means. It doesn't matter which government it was. Don't think you're providing anything with this contract. You don't provide anything. The second issue, which is essential, is the state of security of NATO's southeast flank and the Black Sea Basin. It was raised. NATO's largest army at the moment, or NATO's second largest army, is directly involved in an armed conflict contrary to all the norms of the North Atlantic Pact. She is directly involved and is trying to involve the Pact in an armed conflict with a clumsy provocation. And in this regard, I believe that [[the President signals that time has run out]] the adoption of the text as proposed, there should be substantial editing, which I will allow myself to do at the moment in para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u78	No way, we're at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u79	Yeah, I know, but I'll do it. I'm not banned from the Rules, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u80	Time's up. [[(Radio.) The Chairman gives a signal that the time has run out.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u81	I suggest the following amendment...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u82	Mr. Zablyanov, you're 27 seconds out of time. You'll have a chance...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u83	I think it's essential that you don't shoot me in the back. [[Elevator bell dings]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u84	I don't have a personal one, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u85	Okay. Thank you, then. I propose the following: The security of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria to be carried out by the Bulgarian Army independently or jointly with the forces of the Allied States and where there is a point, to put a comma and add the following text, which do not have a common state... [[The President turns off the microphones. The MP continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u86	The proposals are made in writing between the first and second votes, Mr. Zablyanov. It's a joke, but let's take it seriously. You make proposals that must be deposited in writing between first and second readings if the Bill is supported. Any lines to Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u87	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The debate started quite strangely, in my opinion, perhaps this is the way it should have been with a debate whether we are in NATO, whether we are not, whether we are against NATO or the European Union. It seemed like a completely unnecessary subject to me, and I've always said it from this tribune, and now. I'm not talking about amnesia. I do not know why colleagues who are in this Chamber, who have had 3% of gross domestic product 2007, 2008 have not done what they want us to do at the moment, from the government. We're not bragging about our helicopters right now, we're not bragging about frigates, we're not bragging about transport planes. These are all purchased new things from those who are currently pushing us against the wall and asking us: "Why are you trying to improve airspace security? " - And they are on the left side of the room. I don't know why they were the loudest. But I'm not gonna fall for that and talk about amnesia. I'd like to pay attention to you, here Mr. Yankov told you two things, and I'll pay attention to something third. However, let me read you exactly what this is about. We are talking about amendments to the Defense Act and the armed forces of two members. It's three changes. However, Article 131 will read it. It's about him. See what he says: The defence of the territory, the territorial sea and the air spaces of the country are carried out by the armed forces alone or jointly with the formations of the armed forces of the Allied States. This is said in the existing Law and we have all voted on it, the last changes I think were 2010 or 2011, when we were the first government of GERB. Now we're only changing one word. Now we change just one word, we put another Article 130, in which we say not the defense. We're changing the word "defense" to "security." And we say "airspace security" and that's pretty much the same thing. What have we done so far? We have given our entire ground system, the territory for joint efforts to protect with NATO and the European Union, with the Union countries, in general. I mean, what's much more dangerous. And right now, all the countries that are fighting in Syria are all saying, "Yes, that's not going to happen from Moscow, from Washington, from Paris with the bombings. The boot should step on it. - So we've solved the boot. Right now we're arguing with you about giving this little opportunity that I'm going to talk about, security and airspace. And specify exactly how. That's the argument right now, if there has to be any dispute at all. And I am surprised that this has not been understood at least by the experts who are in the room and have seen it, who have spoken so far, I mean a lot of them. Some of them have understood it and thank you for pointing to me some of the members that I will not read, but I will read you another point of what is said in the Defence and Armed Forces Act. It's al. 2, which becomes para. 4. Mr. Yankov stopped at Al. I'll read you the third one. The second, which becomes the fourth. See what we say: the control of aviation in the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria, the activities under para. 1, that is, airspace security is carried out by the Bulgarian Army, together with the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Interior and so on and other departments. I mean, it's all in our hands. And, as has been said, there is an international treaty. An international treaty, honourable Members who talked about it, is written here, and the Ministry of Defense, do not underestimate experts, they only mean that there will be financial clauses there. That's why you need the international treaty. So the control over what will happen will be the subject of the National Assembly. Let me put it another way: these are only options for protection. We are also doing the impossible right now to provide with our old technique, but then, it was once a modern MiG 29, to continue to protect air space and to carry out the part of it. That's what we're doing right now. And remember, the government, in the face of the minister, yesterday or the other day made a statement, bought six more engines. I myself wonder why we continue in this direction, but, behold, we continue to maintain the existing technique. I don't wear the graph, I've shown it here, from the professional management have given me one graph, not just me, of course, where there are two curves and they intersect. The question is how long do we have to maintain the MiG 29 so that we can carry out the Air Polysling? the first thing, not just the protection of airspace, which is more general, and when to actually purchase a new type of multi-purpose aircraft. That's the problem. In this section, it is written in the graph, I show a blank sheet, but there it is written that this will happen 2018 - 2020, according to Air Force data. Maybe now he's in a hurry to get out of here after we repair with Poland and buy new engines. And what is the government doing right now in the face of the Department of Defense? He tells you: yes, honourable Members, let's put one member in place to give the opportunity, if we ever have to, once we have given, once again I say the territory, and tanks, you know, and last week there were eight American tanks and not only them, let them come more, but no one will pay for it, we have to pay ourselves for our tanks, whether we are the territory, why not give this opportunity to the Ministry of Defense, which is responsible, and the government to be able to protect reliably, effectively. I thank Mr. Bayraktarov for the first time I applauded him. Very well said it is a question of money, in cold blood, without emotion to judge what is good for our country. This is what we call on you, this is what we have done, and such speeches have been made in the Commission to do so. There's a possibility. So, fellow Members, many things have been said. I think with these details that I have tried to offer you, it is clear not that we do not have an opportunity, not that it is unalternative, but it is good for Bulgaria, it is good for the protection of our airspace. It is good for our national security to have this opportunity, if necessary, to say it again in the final, to be able to benefit from this union solidarity. Not only NATO, the European Union and the Union countries, because Bulgaria, we have recognised this, it has been written many times in the documents, it cannot defend itself. Whatever nationalists we are, however much we want to have the Air Force, not only of course the Air Force, let's not forget that we've been seven since eight, maybe six million and something. We don't have that power. We are best defending ourselves at the moment and it is good that those before us have done so that we are part of such a military bloc as NATO is and part of the European Union. I call on everyone, as we will also do the GERB Parliamentary Group, to support these changes as quickly as possible, including at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u88	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Here you go. Mr. Alexandrov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Radev, I would not agree with one part of your speech: Last week we had eight American tanks, hopefully more. I am very sorry, this is the Bulgarian Parliament and I do not think that this is acceptable. As for how the Ministry and the government control it, I'll tell you how it was. In 2015, the sixth month of the US military minister says: "We have a new fighting technique in a number of Eastern European countries, including in Bulgaria and the military minister says he doesn't know about it two months later we get the new technique. It's not about quantity, it's about principles. That way tomorrow we can say: let's start guarding a Turkish plane, why not start two. If you feel the same way that the Turkish Air Force is guarding Greece's airspace through violations over 1,000 times a year, I do not perceive it and do not think that this is normal to happen in Bulgaria. It is our right and our duty as Bulgarian MPs to protect national interests. I don't think the national interest is to protect us, anyone. Yes, we may be small as territory, small as economics, a number of things can be said about how strong we are economically, but we are obliged to create an army that can protect and protect the territorial integrity of our country, as well as the lives of Bulgarian citizens. And we cannot give up this right, which is also a constitutional right to any other country, no matter what an ally is and no matter what any of us think here. It is our duty to our society to protect him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u90	Second line? I won't. It's a hole, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u91	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Alexandrov, you're younger and I'm going to remind you of something not to you, because there's no way as a young man to remember it, maybe you don't know it. I agree with you, but I don't recall telling you to back down somewhere. No, we're just taking one chance. And when I said more U.S. tanks better, I didn't mean just American allies, whatever they were. If they come, they spend money, they help us in preparing that is the goal. For those of you who remember the Warsaw Treaty, let me just remind you of one fact. The word "comendatures" is known by few people. In Bulgaria there were comedatures, which 10 years after that we took them out after the changes! That means a large amount of ammunition, the most expensive thing! I didn't talk to you here about planes or rockets and so on, which is the big money. These comedians were here and we were happy to have them the Ukrainian front or I don't know who should have come to use them and so on. But they had put money away and put it here. If this is done by the allies, very well means some funds, Mr. Bajraktarov will support me, we will set them aside for something else. But no one will do it, and I agree with you here. It is our responsibility and therefore I pointed out that the Ministry and the Council of Ministers are doing their job well. They are aware of the responsibility, making it impossible for them to restore the capabilities of the Air Force or to continue those we have them. But along with that, why not take advantage that we are paying money for NATO membership and the European Union, in other ways, too? That's my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u92	To speak, Mr. Martin Dimitrov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u93	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I will be very brief, as everything important has been said, especially after Mr. Valentin Radev. I am surprised that this topic is subject to opposition in the Bulgarian Parliament, it is obvious. Today we can make two decisions or there can be additional security for Bulgaria and Bulgarian citizens in the form of Air Polish and participation of other NATO member states, in the security of the Bulgarian territory, or not to accept it. Those are the two options. I regret that this topic is becoming another political opposition in Bulgaria, which is rooted, unfortunately, in the fact that many people have not yet accepted NATO as our true ally. If you have accepted NATO as your ally, what is the problem of asking for additional security for Bulgarian citizens? This does not contradict in any way the idea of developing the Bulgarian defence capabilities. We have to develop them, but if we can get additional guarantees, colleagues, why not get them and why not? The topic is so obvious that there should be unity of the Bulgarian Parliament here. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: those who do not accept the additional guarantees for Bulgarian security, for Bulgarian citizens, what really bothers you, what really scares you? Do you still not accept NATO, so many years later, as our ally? Do you still not accept the NATO countries as our allies? I see that Mr. Velizar Enchev admits, but I hope he is the only one in parliament who still does not accept NATO as part of Bulgaria's collective security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u94	- What's the line? I won't. But there will be a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov, for the opportunity to say something that many people who think with their heads... [[Noise and lines.]] The pathos you're talking to reminds me too much of the pathos from 25 years ago about the Warsaw Treaty. Remember how the Warsaw Treaty ended, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u96	Mr. Nayden Zelenogorski has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u97	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! There is nothing more natural than the Reformation bloc supporting this bill at first and second reading. I am surprised that so many years after our membership in NATO and the European Union in this House, we continue to behave sometimes as if we were not a member of NATO, as if we were not a member of the European Union. We are part of the largest and strongest system of collective security. Let me say something that I say not for the first time in this House Bulgaria can achieve its national interest only through EU membership and NATO membership. When we have pό guaranteed security, when, together with our NATO partners, we can pό guaranteed to guard our skies when we can carry out the interests and sovereignty of Bulgaria and through collective security, then there is only one true solution to do the right thing and support this bill. I have not been a general or an Air Force officer, but I have served in the Air Force and I would ask a question: excuse me if a few planes simultaneously disrupt our airfield, how will we react? Do you think that with the resource we have at the moment, we could react simultaneously to several violations of our airspace? It is obvious that only with NATO partner forces can we guarantee this calmness. And now that we're talking about planes, about engines, let's talk about both personnel and pilots. For one reason or another, you know, the pilots of Bulgaria are produced at the Military School in Pleven. I have many acquaintances, I know what the condition is, unfortunately, of the preparation of many of the people involved in this system. Now is the time to think seriously about that the reconstruction of the Air Force School in Pleven and Lower Metropolitan would be an extremely good solution that would provide additional guarantees for national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u98	- What's the line? I won't. There are no other MPs who wish to participate in the debate. It's closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 502-01-89, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2015. Vote 164 MPs: 122 against 41, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. [[Private applause from GERB.]] First negative vote, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u99	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Bulgaria faces the risk without the ability to protect its airspace, which is NATO airspace. You, Mr. Minister, have put us in an impossible choice because of delayed measures by this particular government. It's your responsibility, not someone else's. You, Minister, are submitting proposals that are not justified in detail, your justification lacks depth, there is no concern for national security, and the most serious argument is the summit in Wales. And by the way, to respond to Mr. Toshev, Minister was Mr. Velizar Shalamanov, not Mr. Angel Naydenov. You, Minister, are making this proposal. Do you state along with the fact that it is inevitable? Do you declare that you are unable to guarantee that Bulgaria will have planes that will be able to fly? How and where are you spending the funds that this National Assembly voted you for this year? How can we support a proposal when you have not shown a healthy meaning in your actions so far? After this change, I am convinced that we will then find ourselves in a position to discuss and vote on another strange international treaty which will, as a minimum, damage the budget. It's just that there's always a second plan with you. You are making proposals without clarifying any future steps with whom you are planning to do this joint patrolling or at least telling who you are planning not to do it with, because this is also an important element. We believe, Mr. Minister, that you should withdraw this Law, speed up the repairs of aircraft, speed up the procedures for acquiring a new type of fighter and by showing responsibility to NATO, not formally, following recommendations made at a summit in Wales. Let us first strengthen our aviation, and then anticipate these opportunities for joint patrols when we are in a strong negotiating position, not in a position of desperate petitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u100	Thirty minutes of interruption. At 12:00, we move on. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u101	Honourable Members, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE REGISTER BULSTAT LAW, No 502-01-46. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015, adopted at the first vote on 9 October 2015. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I begin with a request for a procedure for admission for the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva and Mrs. Elena Markova, Director of the Registry Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u103	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov for admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister Micheva and Ms Markova Director of the Registry Agency. Please vote. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I propose a shift of items on the agenda. I propose that the first vote on bills for amendment and supplement of the Road Traffic Act should become point 12 of the proposals and voted yesterday's agenda, because, Mr. President, the Law on Road Traffic submitted by Mr. Krasimir Velchev, there is another part that concerns the Penal Code. As the Penal Code has not yet been viewed, and it would be right for these bills to be viewed in a package, so I propose this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Stanislav Ivanov point 9 of our so-called agenda to become point 12 and the points from 10 to 12 including going one point at a time. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, please introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I present to you the Report on the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the BULSTAT Registry Act, No 502 01 46, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 June 2015, adopted on the first vote on 9 October 2015. The Act for amendment and supplement of the BULSTAT Registry Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Paragraph 1 "A proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following 1. In para. 1 the words "supplier' shall be replaced by "supplier'. 2. In para. 3 sentences are created second and third: "For each person subject to entry into the register, an electronic case shall be brought. Applications, documents certifying the circumstances and other documents shall apply in the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, supported by the Commission, and the version of the version of the importer for § 1 in accordance with the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The name of the Law and § 1 according to the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u108	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, It's 8 o'clock. branches and divisions of the persons under the heading 1, 5 and 7 as well as the divisions of the traders entered in the Trade Register. The Commission supports the proposal. By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u109	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 by importer edited by the Commission and found a place in its report and § 3 by importer supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u110	Under § 4, the Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 4 shall be rejected on a proposal from the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u112	According to § 5, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 the following amendments shall 1. Points 13, 14 and 15 are amended as follows: "13." a legal basis; 14. distribution of ownership; 15. Membership/hospitality;........................................................................................................ 2. point 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. partner/owner;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier/owner;supplier;supplier;supplier;supplier. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Chapter 2, Section III is created. 8a: Art. 8a. Where a BULSTAT code is indicated, the court, state and local authorities, persons entrusted with the exercise of a public function and bodies providing public services, including banks, shall not require the proof of circumstances recorded in the BULSTAT registry. The prohibition shall also apply to contracting entities under art. 7 of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall, after an amendment by the Commission, become § 4 in its report with its respective content, as well as the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u114	Under Paragraph 6, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... Article 9 is amended Art. 9. (1) Sign-in and deletion shall be carried out on the basis of a sample application. The models of applications shall be validated by the Executive Director of the Registry Agency. (2) The application shall contain: 1. details of the applicant; 2. details of the person for whom entry or deletion is requested; 3. the circumstances under art. 7 subject to an entry for the person concerned; 4. Signature of the applicant. (3) Entry and deletion may be declared by the person under art. 3, respectively by his legal representative, lawyer with an explicit power of attorney or proxy with an explicit notary certified power of attorney. Upon request of entry into the special register under art. 2, para. 2 The authorisation may be in writing. In the event of a change in representation, the circumstances shall be stated by the new representative. (4) An application shall be accompanied by a declaration of the authenticity of the circumstances applied for, signed by the applicant. (5) Applications in paper form shall be submitted to the territorial units of the Registry Agency which are at the seat of the district courts. (6) Upon acceptance of the application, the identity of the applicant shall be verified. (7) The entities referred to in art. 2, para. 2 are entered in the Agency for the Under Paragraph 7, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph: .................................................... Article 10 is amended as follows: Art. 10. (1) An official entry of circumstances for the persons referred to in Article shall be carried out in the BULSTAT Register. 3 at the request of the National Insurance Institute or the Revenue Authority. The request must be accompanied by a document certifying the obligation to enter the person in the BULSTAT register. (2) An official entry of circumstances for the persons referred to in Article shall be carried out in the BULSTAT Register. 3, para. 1, t. 1 - 8 and 10 on the basis of entries in other public registers after a period of one month from the obligation to submit the documents under art. 11, para. 1. (3) The Executive Director of the Registry Agency or a staff member of the Registration Office shall inform the persons under Article in writing. 3 for the official entry under para. One or two. (4) The managing, respectively the representatives or the explicitly authorised persons of the entities under art. 3 are obliged to certify the payment of the fee due for the entry within 7 days of receipt of the notification under para. 3. (5) In the register BULSTAT shall be made official entry of the closure/deleting of the persons under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 8 after their expiry or on the basis of entries in other public registers. (6) Registration of persons under art. 3, para. 1, t. 9-11 shall be terminated in the event of death of the person. (7) The official entry shall be at the expense of the person written, except in the cases under para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u115	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 6 and 7 by importer, which, following an appropriate version of the Commission, shall be placed in its report. Please vote on paragraphs 6 and 7 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u116	Paragraph 8? a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... Article 11 is amended as follows: Art. 11. (1) To the application under art. 9, para. 1 persons under art. 3, para. 1, t. 1.. 8 and para. 2 according to their status shall present: 1. a copy of a judgment or other document as follows: (a) the legal persons suppose an act establishing them and an act determining the person managing them and/or representing them; (b) the trade offices of foreign persons under art. 24 of the Investment Promotion Act.. a document for registration in the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry; (c) Foreign legal entities under art. 3, para. 1, t. 5 A document certifying the activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; a legalized document certifying the emergence and representation of foreign legal entities in the country concerned; (d) the non-personalised companies under the Law on Obligations and Contracts and Insurance Cases under art. 8 of the Social Security Code.. the company contract, respectively the certificate of entry in the National Revenue Agency; (e) branches and divisions under art. 3, para. 1, t. 8 an act certifying their creation and determining the person managing them and/or representing them; (f) other persons other than those referred to in points (a) to (d) who have insured documents for legitimization and/or engaging in certain activities where required by law. 2. a document for a state fee paid under a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers; 3. Registration questionnaire and/or registration reference for the data under art. 7, para. 1 and 4 for the entities referred to in art. 2, para. 2. (2) The documents shall be presented in an original copy certified by the applicant or notarized copy. (3) When for the subjects under art. 2, para. 2 The administrative act establishing or amending shall contain classified information which cannot be provided to the Registry Agency, the data shall be entered on the basis of a declaration by the managing authority, respectively by the representative or by the person expressly authorised. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 12 is amended as Art. 12. (1) The application shall be submitted within 7 days of the occurrence of the obligation to enter the persons referred to in art. 3. (2) For the persons registered in court, the time limit shall begin to run from receipt of the judgment. For persons under art. 3, para. 1, t. 9-11 term under para. 1 run from the start of the activity, respectively from the hiring of natural persons, the purchase of the property or the change in the circumstances of art. 7, para. 2. (3) Within 30 days of the entry into force of the act establishing/revealing, changing or closing/deleting of the entities under art. 2, para. 2 the managing person, respectively the representative or the expressly authorised person shall submit the act and documents referred to in Article. 11 at the Registry Agency. (4) In any change of the circumstances to be entered, the person referred to in art. 3 is obliged to state their entry in the register within 7 days. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) Applications and requests for registration and deletion submitted in paper form shall be entered into the information system by removing electronic image from them and from the documents attached thereto. (2) The electronic document established under the document referred to in para. 1 way is considered to be identical to the document submitted on paper until proven otherwise. (3) The written documents submitted by the applicant under para. 1 shall be kept by the Registry Agency for 10 years from the date of entry or deletion. After the 10-year storage period has expired, they may be destroyed if they are not subject to surrender to the National Archive Fund. The procedure and method of storage and disposal shall be determined by the Executive Director of the Registry Agency. (4) No references shall be made to documents submitted in paper form and no certificates shall be issued, except in the case of a judicial dispute or in the case of the issue of references and certificates for the entities referred to in art. 2, para. 2. (5) Applications for the subjects under art. 2, para. 2 shall be submitted only in paper form.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u117	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 8 to 10, including by importer, which, after the Commission's amendment, have a place in its report. We are voting on paragraphs 8 to 10 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 6. Paragraphs 8 to 10 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u118	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) The Registry Agency shall ensure that the documents referred to in Article can be accepted. 11, para. 1 issued and signed under the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Governance. (2) When filing documents with notary certification is required, their electronic image shall be attached to the application. Paragraph 12 "A proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 16 is amended as follows: Art. 16. (1) Applications and requests for registration and deletion shall be dealt with by a registration officer in the order of their entry. (2) The Registration Officer shall rule on applications and requests for entry and deletion by the end of the following working day of their entry. (3) The Registration Officer shall verify that: 1. an application has been submitted for the requested entry or deletion subject to its intended form and order; 2. the stated circumstance is subject to entry and is not entered; 3. the application has been submitted by an authorised person; 4. all documents as required by the law are annexed to the application; A declaration under Article 5 shall be submitted. 9, para. 4; 6. the state fee payable has been paid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u119	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 and 12 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u120	Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. (1) The Registration Officer shall carry out within the period laid down in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, respectively, in the term under para. 3 entry or deletion of the entry when provided for in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 requirements. (2) The entry and deletion shall be made by means of a consistent introduction of information on the relevant circumstances in the register. (3) Where all documents required by law are not annexed to the application for entry and deletion or where the state fee payable is not paid, the registration officer shall instruct the applicant to remedy the irregularity. The instructions shall be made public by the electronic account of the person under art. 3, and if an e-mail address is also provided to it, and where an application for registration is submitted on the official website of the BULSTAT registry, within the period referred to in Article 3. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. The applicant may comply with the instructions given and submit the relevant documents by means of a sample application. The registration officer shall refuse if these instructions are not fulfilled within 5 working days of their being given. (4) A check of compliance between the data in the documents submitted and in the National database of the BULSTAT registry and in other registers and information systems accessible to the BULSTAT registry shall be carried out in the BULSTAT register. (5) For identified discrepancies in the verification with the documents under art. 11, para. 1 and the application under art. 9, para. 1 a reference shall be made on a template established by the Executive Director of the Registry Agency. The registration services shall provide the reference to the authority which issued the act and to the managing authority, respectively, to the representative or to the expressly authorised person. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. Under § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 19 is amended as follows: Art. 19. (1) The refusal to make the entry shall be subject to an administrative challenge before the Executive Director of the Registry Agency under the Administrative Procedure Code. The act of the Executive Director confirming the refusal shall be subject to a challenge before the court under the Administrative Procedure Code. (2) In the event of challenge, the refusal of entry and the entire file shall be sent to the competent authority. If the refusal is cancelled, the entry shall be made in a professional capacity which shall be notified to the applicant. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u121	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 13 to 19 including on the Commission report, with § 13 and § 15 being edited. All the texts of the importer are supported by the Commission from 13 to 19 inclusive. Vote 95 MPs: 90, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 13 to 19 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u122	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, made in accordance with Article 20. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The Regional Courts shall provide for free of charge to the registration services the judicial decisions for the formation, change of circumstances and deletion of legal persons which are not traders. (2) The judicial decisions under para. 1 shall be made available to the registration services within one working day. 2. In para. 3 the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. There is a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov to create a new paragraph, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 2 the words.....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u123	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 20 by importer, which has been edited by the Commission and, with its edited text, finds its place in its report, § 21 and 22 by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23. Vote 92 MPs: 88, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 20 to 23 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u124	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words.............................................................................. 14, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) ) (a.k.a. Five 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The registration services shall provide electronic copies of the documents referred to in art. 11 of the National Revenue Agency. 3. In para. 5 the 4. In para. 6 The services of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u125	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 23 to 26, including by importer, which are supported by the Commission. Paragraph 23 shall become Paragraph 24 in its report following an amendment and paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 shall be supported by the Commission. We are voting on paragraphs 24 to 27, including the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. Paragraphs 24 to 27 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u126	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Registry Agency shall provide free access to public information in the BULSTAT registry, issue free references and certificates to the court, state and local authorities. 2. In para. 2: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: "1." the public part of the BULSTAT register on the Internet; b) the current t. 1 becomes 2 and in it the words "on the Internet" are deleted; c) the current t. 2 becomes t. 3; (d) the so-called t. 3 becomes t. 4 and in it the words........................................................................................... 14, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 17, para. 3. The creation of para. 3: The references and certificates shall be issued after a written request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u127	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 27 which, after being edited by the Commission, becomes § 28 in its report. 99 MPs voted: 93, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 28 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u128	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 46 is amended as follows: Art. 46. An official who violates the prohibition under art. 8a, is punished with a fine from 100 to 500 BGN The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 words.............................................................................. 24, para. 3 and 6 and 6 shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u129	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 28, 29 and 30, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report as paragraphs 29, 30 and 31. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. Paragraphs 29 to 31, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u130	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. Under § 31, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with Article 31. 80, para. 4, item 2 of the Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 31, which becomes § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law shall enter into force from 1 May 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u131	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the name of the section and for § 32. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. The name of the section of the Final provision and § 32 of the Commission report have been adopted, and thus the Draft at second reading. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u133	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC IDENTIFICATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will introduce us to the people's representative Rumen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, first, on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to allow Mr. Valeri Borisov to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u135	Please vote on admission to the hall of the Deputy Minister of Transport. Vote 94 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister of Transport to take his place in the Chamber. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u136	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on an electronic identification bill, No 502-01-81, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. At a regular meeting held 25 November 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the e-Identifying bill submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Rumyana Bachvarova The bill was presented by Minister Bachvarova. The main objective of the Bill is regulation of the main components for the launch of electronic management and the use of electronic administrative services by citizens. Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament obliges us to have an electronic identification that meets certain conditions. The development of the Bill is discussed in the Council for Electronic Governance of the Council of Ministers and in dialogue with the professional community to achieve the highest security of identification. Minister Bachvarova pointed out that at present there are different forms of identification, but none of them meets the maximum level of security. The proposed option meets level 4 of security and guarantees reliable protection. Citizens may also use other forms of identification. The introduction of the electronic identification has an economic impact assessment of 300 million. lv. By rationalizing the services, it would save 20 million man hours a year to fill in forms, personal documents, travel, waiting, queues, as 10 million man hours a year for data collection. The application, as well as the technical services which are of an auxiliary nature, will be carried out by electronic identity administrators registered in the Ministry of Interior. The protection is also guaranteed but the personal data. The electronic identity certificate is proposed to be issued for a period of five years. The conditions for suspension, renewal or termination of the operation are also laid down. The bill also provides for the establishment of an additional register of authorisations. It was stressed that this is a technical solution, representing a step towards easing the conditions for receiving electronic services from both Bulgarian citizens and those living abroad. Deputy Minister Valeri Borissov added that the electronic identifier can be used by citizens and in various sectors of public life by issuing sectoral identifiers of health care, financial, social sector and others. In addition, the identifier may lay down the basis for ensuring electronic voting. Georgi Dimitrov stressed that the Law establishes a universal national instrument for establishing electronic identity under Regulation No 910/2014 of the European Parliament, which refers to all citizens of the Member States of the European Union. Each Member State which has developed its own national model must notify it to the European Commission to ensure cross-border authentication between different countries. The MPs participated in the debates: Krasimir Yankov, Dimitar Delchev, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov. Issues related to the establishment of a national platform for integrating the various electronic services systems into the sectors were raised to establish a clear regulation that the identifier is a means of obtaining electronic services from citizens. To clearly outline the requirements and criteria to be met by administrators so that they can be registered. Following the debates held, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, the Law on Electronic Identification, No 502-01-81, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The next report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will be introduced to us by the people's representative Mr. Valkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the draft Law on Electronic Identification, No 502-01-81, submitted by the Council of Ministers 5 October 2015 At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 4 November 2015, a draft of the Law on Electronic Identification was discussed, No 502 01 "81," submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by Mr. Valeri Borisov, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mrs. Janeta Rogova, Head of Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mr. Valeri Borisov. In his presentation Mr. Borisov stressed that the main objectives of the Bill are to achieve a higher level of efficiency of electronic governance in the Republic of Bulgaria, ensuring an appropriate level of security of electronic transactions and interoperability of electronic identification means in the context of the Digital Programme for Europe and the legal framework at European level. The Law on Electronic Identification is fully in line with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: The subject of the bill is the settlement of public relations related to the electronic identification of individuals, users of electronic services. The draft Law enables those persons to have a unique electronic identifier for which an electronic identity certificate is issued. Mr. Borisov stressed that the proposed framework is subject to the principle of technical and technological neutrality of electronic identification tools and mechanisms, including electronic identity media The competent administrative authority in relation to the issuance and management of electronic identity certificates shall be the Minister of Interior. The bill also provides for the possibility that these activities, as well as other ancillary activities in the realization of the services of a technical nature, may be carried out by private entities in the context of registration. The bill also contains rules for carrying out verification of validity of certificates issued by electronic identification centres. The establishment of such a centre in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is envisaged, allowing other persons to perform the functions of such a centre after registration in the Ministry of Interior. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held during which issues related to ensuring the security of the personal data of users of electronic administrative services were discussed. On the basis of the debates and opinions held, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 10 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. I'm opening the debate. People's representative Krasimir Yankov, come in, after him the people's representative Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u140	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Regarding the proposed Bill, firstly, I am surprised that there is no representative of the Ministry of Interior. [[(Noise and lines from GERB. (Laughter)]] During the debate in the Commission, the Minister of Interior himself defended the Law and there were many questions he did not answer. The Minister of Interior has specific commitments in the so proposed Bill. Colleagues, in my opinion, the importers had to do their best to protect this Law and the Ministry of Interior. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria is against the adoption of such a Law because, firstly, there are many ambiguities in the texts so proposed. We also see the ambiguity in this: the electronic identification of what carrier it will be. Asked questions to the Minister of Interior colleagues from the Internal Commission will remember how ridiculous the answers we have received. At present, there is no European regulation or legal requirement for ID cards to be with a chip, an electronic carrier of information, and the draft Law on Electronic Identification is also not provided for in the ID cards to record an electronic ID of citizens. But it doesn't shut down. And there is no response to this electronic identification of what carrier is intended to be on! On the other hand, there are reasons for the two identities - electronic and physical - not to be collected on one carrier - in this case the identity card, as a breakthrough will lead to opportunities for full counterfeiting of the card. Therefore, in addition to the identity card, a civil map that will prove electronic identity and provide electronic signature of documents can be introduced. This option shall apply in the Republic of Austria. In addition, there are different security requirements for both types of card documents. This is the first major argument that it is not clear on what medium is envisaged by the government to be this electronic identification. I'm paying attention to you, colleagues! Mr. Atanasov, you have resigned as Chairman of the Internal Commission. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the transcript of the debates in view of this Law in the Internal Commission has not been published! And at this meeting, we had specific arguments, specific questions that we did not get an answer to. Publicity requires that this be made public to the Bulgarian citizens. You haven't been replaced as chairman yet, Mr. Atanasov! What impresses us from the attached texts on the Bill is that the activities of the Minister of Interior can be assisted by administrators of electronic identity. Colleagues, if when issuing ID cards this is a function and it is the work of the Ministry of Interior, it is now envisaged the outsourcing of this activity. However, the fee to be paid by the Bulgarian citizens is yet to be accepted, which will be paid by those who will receive an electronic identity card. Again from the pockets of Bulgarian citizens! And I asked the Minister of Interior: why in one Spain can the budget of the country in question bear these costs and this is free for the citizens of Spain and in Bulgaria people will have to pay again? Moreover, it is not clear what the regulation is, what are the criteria for these administrators. They will be selected by the Interior Minister, it is not clear by which criteria, and then a fee will be fixed to pay those who want electronic identification. Not to turn out to be honourable colleagues, such as in the case of Contactless multi-extortion chains. I would like to remind you of the investigation of the journalistic investigation, Mr. Tsvetanov, at the end of 2013. After your mandate as Minister of Interior, when it became clear that Bulgarian citizens paid a high price for signs for their cars, and the price at which these same signs were delivered was 13.50. Later February 2014, when this contract expired, even this price became BGN 4.50. Do you remember what the Bulgarian citizens paid for changing the signs for their cars, colleagues? This is what we foresee as a future after the adoption of this Law. And it is about tens of millions out of the pocket of Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, we cannot agree with something that is in the hypothesis. What exactly will the government do? This fee will be determined by the Council of Ministers, it is recorded in art. 18 and it's not clear what it is. It is envisaged that in the coming months at least this is the way it is written in the original version of the program of this government, more electronic services can be used by Bulgarian citizens. The question of how effective this electronic identification will be implemented within this year is not answered. In fact, what lies behind this Bill we as Bulgarian citizens will find out after the decision of the Council of Ministers about the price we will pay after we see the register of administrators elected by the Minister of Interior. This is gonna stick in people's pockets. This is additional funds taken from the budget of Bulgarian households. It is unacceptable, without any clarity what exactly is behind this Law, that it be submitted to plenary. Moreover, he corresponded, at least according to the explanations of Minister Bachvarova, with proposed amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act! These proposals have been withdrawn. We are now waiting to see what a new law on the Ministry of Interior provides for the reform of Mrs. Bachvarova. One thing is clear: the capacity of the Ministry of Interior will be reduced and the administrative service will be reduced as expected by the Bulgarian citizens, most likely will be transferred, outsourced and this hides many threats. Preparing this to happen is this Law of Electronic Identification with the possibility of outsourcing at its issuance. We absolutely cannot agree on behalf of the voters, on behalf of the people, what is envisaged to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u142	Dear Mr. Yankov, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take more of my right to a personal explanation because you mentioned my name and gave the good policies that you implemented in your mandate 2013 with structural and legislative changes in the Ministry of Interior. Mr. Yankov, BMW, the company that makes the numbers for Bulgarian cars is somewhere before 2000. There is no Minister of Interior who has not supported the activities of this state company. All revenues that came as profit went for additional support to improve the working conditions of the Bulgarian employees from the Ministry of Interior system. However, you have seen a profitable business that could safely go into private hands, and you have satisfied the personal economic interests of certain people, because what you have done with the Ministry of Interior system, such as closing the BMW, without absolutely no debate in Parliament, or discussing it at round tables, or in dialogue with the European Commission, you have similarly closed off the IDA. Just to let you know that the alert-security activity in the Ministry of Interior system is part of the so-called "market share" that you claimed back then. But this was the structure in the Ministry of Interior, which provided additional security in all state institutions and did not allow for the personal economic interests of certain security companies. But maybe this is the style of your management that you had. That is why today we are talking with such anxiety about all the consequences you have caused us from your management, the Oresharski experiment. So do not give such examples. You know that the company BMW is currently positioned in the Ministry of Transport, which managed to react adequately and actually satisfy a large part of what has been obtained as a vacuum and lack of numbers? exactly what you bet in 2013 with your legislative changes and with the decisions you made in the Council of Ministers. Please, when we talk about legislation, let's talk about it in principle. As far as the topic we are discussing is concerned, for the adoption of the first reading of the Law on Electronic Identification, yes, indeed, I believe that between first and second readings we can make meaningful proposals that give an additional guarantee. You know, I had a position in the Internal Commission in which we said that there were some texts that could actually create similar statements that you made earlier. I agree with your proposal, but, of course, let us let this be decided in the Internal Commission and do something sensible, good and actually make legislation that is not changed and does not satisfy certain economic interests, which you can do well, but I hope that we in this mandate will not allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u143	Thank you. Anybody want a second line? I can't see. Hole, Mr. Iankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u144	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I will respond to you in the way you want me to. For the past seven years GERB has managed the security system and the Ministry of Interior for five and a half years. For the most part of that time, you were Minister of the Interior. Now, for a year and a half, this is the third time to change the Ministry of Interior Act. The Minister of Interior has not complied with the current order banning donations and, as early as the second week, signed a contract for donation by BNB for a car for Mercedes and until August, until the order of 2013, which prohibits donations in the Ministry of Interior, donations are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u145	Mr. Iankov, I just remind you that we are debating the Law on Electronic Identification, the Law on the Ministry of Interior has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u146	The same guide also proposes the texts that we should vote on in a moment. Is your example not enough of the doubts, but the evidence I give you regarding the texts that are being proposed and what is not seen in the texts is transferred to the Council of Ministers as a decision of the Minister of Interior by voting on this Bill and these texts? The ambiguity will become visible in a few months, when people find out what it costs them. We will try to illuminate and make it clear where the money of Bulgarian citizens goes for this electronic identification, be assured. Thank you. [[Replications between the MPs from GERB and Krasimir Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u147	Thank you. Come on in on a point of order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. President, honourable Members, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, perhaps, or I do not know how you will qualify for it at the beginning of the examination of this bill we have heard the opinion of the Committee on Transport, but we have not heard the opinion of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which is leading under the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u149	How? How?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u150	Mr. Svilenski, the first report was by the MP Rumen Ivanov, he briefed us on the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u151	Thank you, I'm sorry, I'm withdrawing the procedure. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u152	There is a floor for the speech by the people representative Antony Trenchev "The Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block." Here you are, colleague Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today the Council of Ministers is proposing that we consider the Law on Electronic Identification at first reading. At first reading, our job is not to go into technological details and how this or that is going to happen, but to see whether the general philosophy of the law is correct in our view, whether the objectives set are those we want to achieve, this is what we vote on. Between the two readings, we will naturally be able to make our proposals to clear all concerns. However, it is important for me to point out that, in my opinion, and I have spoken with many experts and I think that something I know about the topic... the less the text proposed by the Council of Ministers, the better, for a number of reasons, but mostly because it is bound by other laws, by all the laws that will regulate the administrative services in Bulgaria. In a way, it's like a clock mechanism that's very well connected to all the other parts, and we risk changing some tiny things, confusing the big picture. The lyrics are good. It's prepared by professionals. He's agreed with professionals and he's technologically neutral, which is very important. This obviously escaped some of the colleagues. It is technologically neutral and important technological things will be regulated in regulations further. The reason why we haven't had effective electronic control for so many years is that so far this has been done with the electronic signature. It is not true that there is no designated carrier for electronic identity. That's not true. The Transitional and Final Regulations clearly state that these will be our ID cards after 2017, in which they will have a chip. It is also important to note that the ID cards with this chip will not be more expensive than the current ones. That's in terms of expenses. Naturally, if we want effective electronic control, we will have to make certain costs. How else do we build the infrastructure? However, this investment will be restored very quickly, as this will ultimately improve the cost of every citizen taking advantage of administrative services. The law is really good, the Reformation bloc will support it. I invite you and you to do this at first reading, if then there are any details to clear, do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u154	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any who wish to make speeches on the bill in question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The law on electronic identification is good. I call on us to support it in plenary, as it solves a problem that has been before us for many years and no one has ever solved it. It is a law that has been late for years, and it is high time to end this matter by adopting these texts today. As the colleague who spoke before me said, the law was written by experts and this is clearly evident. The principle of technological independence enshrined in this law is extremely important, as I would not have dared to predict which would be the best technology in two years. I congratulate the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport for not having committed to such a forecast, as far greater minds than ours in the technological world have made mistakes in these forecasts. So the law is very good, it develops an environment for developing electronic governance, which is high time to use. So let's face it, let's not ask questions that are tilting towards wondering which law we are looking at today, because, colleague, I will address you, the Ministry of Interior in this case and the questions you have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u156	They don't have anything in common, do they?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u157	...doesn't concern the law. It is high time for the country to pass in the 21st century, and if anyone wants to continue living in an analog environment, in a paper administration, okay, let's do it, but let's not limit all other citizens to taking advantage of technology and save time, hanging by institutions, especially money, because slowing down this topic, that is what we will do. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Christov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other MPs who would like to speak? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that all Members should comply and support the Bill at first reading. It proposed amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, which govern the right of choice for the holders of ID cards and documents to contain an electronic medium on which to record data for electronic identification and qualified electronic signature. The question is given as to what is the degree of readiness at the time of the administrative bodies, public functions holders and public service providers, to provide the possibility of electronic identification in the use of electronic services. These are things that are to be built up within the framework of the goals of the e-government. These may be the health card or social security card or other similar. Here I kind of perceive the proposals made by Mr. Krasimir Yankov. I think and repeat what I said just now that there is a serious possibility between first and second reading that we can discuss, debate and adopt legislation that will actually open the possibility of the e-government. I believe and hope, Mr. Yankov, that you will also support the Bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u160	Thank you. - What's the line? Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you appear to be present in the hall, but you are not listening, including at the moment. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov spoke with his colleagues from AG of GERB.]] I have put forward arguments with which we cannot support this bill, and you are aware. So right now you're trying to insinuate that between first and second readings, adjustments will be made. The importer is your government, your Council of Ministers, the one you chose. What is happening right now is a bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, and you want to rework it between first and second readings, creating questions, for which the answer leans more towards the logic of elections. Thank you. [[Radio, laughter, and shouting!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u162	Is there another MP willing to make a line? I won't. Is there any other Member of the National Assembly who wishes to speak on the draft in question? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote at first reading the Law on Electronic Identification, No 502-01-81, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015. They voted 107 MPs: 95, against 10, abstention 2. The bill was passed at first reading. Madam Minister, would you like to take an attitude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u163	Dear Mr. Haytov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you to all those who supported the bill. One addition, because I am convinced that you are all aware of what we have presented and its motives. In practice, with this bill, we align the rules on access to electronic services as set out in the European directive. This enables Bulgarian citizens to have access to electronic services of all countries in the European Union and European citizens to the Bulgarians. With this we not only open the door of Bulgarian citizens to Europe and Europe to us, but open the door for the launch of electronic governance. This is a very big and first step in the work of establishing electronic governance. What you have approved at the moment is the most modern, modern European practice. The bill has been designed to be implemented in our terms, which is another feature of the European essence of our country and another chance. Thank you. [[Loud applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u164	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE AGENCIATORY. The first report is from the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. The report will introduce us to her chairman Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u165	Before the report, if you please, Mr. President, the procedure for admission to the Chamber, which I ask you to put to the vote: Mr. Oleg Petkov, Vice-President of the State Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u166	Please, a voting regime for the admission of experts and the Deputy Minister, as Mr. Dimitar Lazarov introduced us. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to take their assigned seats. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u167	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act "National Security" No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. On 19 November 2015, a regular meeting of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act was held. The meeting was attended by representatives of: Council of Ministers: Mr. Georgi Krastev. Advisor to the Prime Minister; from the Ministry of Interior: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister; from the State Agency National Security: Mr. Dimitar Georgiev. Chairman of the DANS; from the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As item two of the agenda was examined Draft amendment and supplement to the State Agency Act, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. On behalf of the importer, the reasons for his admission was presented by the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. He stressed that the proposed changes are the result of the project launched in 2013 "Creating the National Unit for the Collection and Processing of Passenger Booking Data in the Republic of Bulgaria" implemented with the financial support of the European Commission. The beneficiary of the project is SANS, whose structure is intended to establish the National Unit. Mr. Tzipov drew attention to the fact that analyses and assessments clearly show that the actions of organized crime include most often international travels, usually aimed at trafficking in people, drugs or other illegal goods, and that terrorism has a marked cross-border nature and terrorist routes cross many national borders. In this regard, a dialogue on the establishment of national PNR units and a European PNR system is under way at the European Union level. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act creates a national legal framework for obtaining and processing the reservation data of passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air. The legal framework covers the establishment of a National Unit for the receipt and processing of passenger booking data in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air; the status of its manager; the activity of obtaining and processing of booking data by the National Unit; the administrative criminal provisions for failure to comply with the obligations under the new Chapter Six............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act creates a national legal framework for obtaining and processing the reservation data of passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air. The legal framework covers the establishment of the National Unit for the receipt and processing of passenger data in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air; the status of its manager; the activity of obtaining and processing booking data from the National Unit; the administrative and criminal provisions for failure to comply with the obligations under the new Chapter 6a The bill provides for the means of providing the data from the National Unit to the competent authorities; deadlines for storing the data are provided; an obligation is provided for the National Unit to depersonalise by masking the personal data received; provisions governing the protection of personal data are introduced. Punishments are provided for air carriers in the event of non-compliance with their obligations under the law. Provisions have been revised on the competitions for the appointment of a public service at the SANS, the status of civil servants and the disciplinary violations carried out by the employees. People's representative Merdjanov said that the bill is not financially secure and that the services may not be able to respond to modern technologies. He said that it was not necessary for our country to be the first to introduce matter creating concerns about citizens' rights and that national parliaments have a primate over the European Parliament. People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov supported the Bill by stating that the financial issues can be discussed and stressed that yesterday's position of the European Parliament clearly shows that the topic of PNR data is a priority and will be laid down in the future actions of the European Commission. He underlined that the Bulgarian Parliament is actively involved in security meetings and should have a position on matters. In support of the Bill, the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov also spoke, stressing that it is about exchange of information of passengers and that there are no fears of unlawful violations of citizens' rights. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 12 votes...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u168	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. The next report is from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. He will introduce us to the people's representative Mr. Rumen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on National Security, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. At its meeting held on 18 November 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on State Security Agency, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by representatives from: the Ministry of Interior The draft was presented by Dimitar Georgiev, who pointed out the importance of the proposed Draft and stressed that it was created by an interdepartmental working group, which was attended by representatives of the State Agency Dimitar Georgiev explained that the current Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act creates a national legal framework for obtaining and processing data on passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air. The National Unit will be established at the SANS and will be led by an employee authorized by an order of the Agency. The data will be transmitted to the National Unit by air carriers or their authorised service provider and the way to provide the data by the National Unit to the competent authorities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This bill sets out the objectives for which the data can be processed, namely prevention, detection, prosecution, prosecution of terrorism or other serious crimes and in relation to API data which are part of thePNR data and are for border control purposes. Time limits are in place within which the data should be transmitted by the air carriers to the national unit, namely 48 hours prior to the announced take-off time or immediately prior to flight. The authorities entitled to receive the PNR data and the results of their processing are listed. In his summary Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov assured that the Ministry of Interior has actively participated in the development of the bill, and due to its importance and relevance it will be supported. In the subsequent debate the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Svetoslav Belemezov and Atanas Atanasov took part in the debate. People's representative Krasimir Yankov took an interest in the final recipients of the collected data, asked for clarification about who will analyse the collected information and ultimately expressed discontent with the lack of financial justification for the proposed Bill and the short 5-year period for storing the data. In response, the President of SANS Dimitar Georgiev agreed with the opinion on the short period of storage of the data, but clarified that if necessary, these data, which are of interest, will be stored through other systems, confirmed the existence of a financial justification of the presented Bill, which does not provide for a change of the budget of the State Agency. People's representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov expressed the opinion of the GERB Parliamentary Group for full approval and support of the proposed bill. He reminded that the proposed changes were envisaged as early as 2012, and their adoption is extremely important for our proper cooperation with the European structures, the national security of Bulgaria, the European Union and in cross-border cooperation with our partners. People's representative Atanas Merdjanov asked the representatives of the Ministry of Interior and DANS for clarification in which other countries of the European Union were established or has a functioning passenger control unit as proposed by the submitted bill. In response, Dimitar Georgiev explained that such projects are currently being implemented within 14 Member States of the European Union, and further in the implementation of the projects are Great Britain and France, and with the other 14 countries we are moving at the same pace, with the expectation that the unit in Bulgaria will work and start functioning in the beginning of July 2016. People's representative Svetoslav Belemezov expressed his full support for the proposed Bill and even that we are late, given the international situation and the events of the last week, expressed the need to introduce such a type of information exchange to pass through a national unit, European Union level and added that 9 of all 28 members of the European Union are also working on projects regarding land transport, including rail transport. Commission President Atanas Atanasov strongly assured that the representatives of the Reformation bloc will support the proposed bill, because especially at the moment the world situation and Europe imposes very rapid action for much better coordination between different services and countering terrorism. Atanasov added that in the proposed Draft it is not clear what the status of the head of the data collection unit will be and noted his intention to submit more revised texts in this direction between first and second readings. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with 11 votes for the State Agency, with no objection, and 2 votes for the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the State Agency Act No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Moving on to the next report. He is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. He will introduce us to the people representative Ivan Valkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on National Security, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 4 November 2015, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act on National Security was discussed, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Legal Activity Directorate at the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Mihail Chilev, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Information and Security at the State Agency of National Security and Mrs. Maria Rangelova, Head of Legal Security at the Directorate of the European Union and International Cooperation at the Ministry of Interior. The bill was presented by Mrs. Tanya Karakash. In 2013 the project was launched with a beneficiary of the project......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The project envisions the National Unit to be built as part of the structure of the State Agency. On 23 March 2015, an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on the exchange of passenger information was signed in Washington, the United States of America. Despite the lack of legal framework, the European Union has signed agreements with the United States of America, Canada and Australia on the provision of reservation data to passengers. Passenger reservation data (PNR data) are information provided by passengers and collected and stored by air carriers. These include information such as the date of booking/issue of the ticket scheduled(s) of the journey, passenger names, date of birth, address and contact details, payment information, details of the complete route of the intended journey, travel agency or travel agent, ticket data, all pre-arranged passenger data (API data) and others. The use of passenger information collected by air carriers is an important tool for the prevention, detection and investigation of crimes and prosecution of perpetrators. The analysis of passenger booking data (Passenger Name Record - PNR) supports the identification of high-risk passengers, unknown to the time of the competent authorities, in the context of the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children and other serious crimes. All analyses and assessments clearly show that the actions of organised crime include most often international travels, usually aimed at trafficking in people, drugs or other illegal goods, and terrorism has a marked cross-border nature and terrorist routes cross many national borders. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act creates a national legal framework for obtaining and processing the reservation data of passengers in the Republic of Bulgaria, carried by air. In view of the fact that API data are part of the PNR data, the requirements of Council Directive 2004/82/EC on the obligation of air carriers to communicate data to passengers are introduced, providing for the repeal of the relevant texts of the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, which regulates the processing of API data. Changes are also proposed in the Civil Aviation Act, which provides for the obligation of air carriers to collect and transmit reservation data to passengers and gives a legal definition of these data. Punishments are provided for air carriers in the event of non-compliance with their obligations under the Law, namely On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 8 votes for the National Security Act, No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u172	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. This was the latest committee report we've met. I open the debate and expect MPs for speeches. Mr. Dimitar Dubov was the first one to put in a request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Members of the National Assembly from the Bulgarian National Assembly will not support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u174	Why?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u175	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u176	Quiet, please! Mr. Atanasov, don't engage with the speaker. Mr. Dubov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u177	We will not support the proposed Bill for several reasons. We believe that this is unnecessary information that is being collected. I'm guessing that every one of you who's been to the American Embassy for a visa has been interviewed considerably more extensively, and all this data about travelers to the United States has already been found at the embassy. This is the first thing that we find unnecessary implementation of such an agreement. Secondly, it became clear from the questions asked in the discussion process that Bulgaria might actually be the second country in the European Union to adopt such a bill. It can be said that it is not widely applied throughout the European Union. The next point to be taken into account is that there is no reciprocity in the exchange of data. We will transmit such data to the United States, but we will not receive such data. And our last argument to implement all that is envisaged in this Bill, the state should allocate significant resources as funds and as people to deal with the generalisation of the data in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u178	Mr. Dubov, thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs for speeches? Mr. Enchev, come in. [[Comments and shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] I have given the floor to the MP Velizar Enchev. Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u179	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues! I support, in essence, this Bill, as the danger of terrorism is real. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u180	Surprise!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u181	But I do have one suggestion. The President or the Head of this unit, which will exist at the State Agency of National Security, will be appointed by order of the Director of the National Security Agency. I believe that this post is so responsible that its appointment, the designation of the person cannot be in the prerogatives of the President of the State Agency of National Security. This is a man who will have exceptional information and we must choose him, not...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u182	Mr. Enchev, we're looking at the Bill at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u183	I'm making a note. I support this bill, I think it is necessary. There are many weaknesses in it. I join Mr. Dubov's opinion that there is an inequality in the exchange of information between the European Union, on the one hand, and the United States of America, on the other. This is also the vice of this Bill, which should be corrected. In some countries of the European Union, note this, especially in France, this issue is raised out loud. And no one blames critics on this subject, as Mr. Dubov says, that they are anti-American. It's about reciprocity and national self-respect. So general yes, but specifically on all these issues, I ask you very much before we vote, between first and second reading, let's think about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-14.u184	Thank you. Anyone for a line? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Agency (National Security Agency), No 502-01-85, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 October 2015. Vote 100 MPs: 89 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We continue with parliamentary control announcements on 15 January 2016. Friday, 11:00 p.m.: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov will answer two questions from the MPs Stanislav Stanilov and Yavor Haytov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova will answer three questions from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov, two questions, and Angel Naydenov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin will answer two questions from the MPs Borislav Iglev and Georgi Gokov. 4. The Minister of Defence Mr. Nikolay Nenchev will answer two questions from the MPs Angel Naydenov and Krasimir Karakachanov. 5. The Minister of Education and Science Mr. Todor Tanev will answer three questions from the MPs Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Tanev and Manol Genov. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva will answer three questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions, and Manol Genov. 7. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva will answer four questions from the MPs Cornelia Nino, Georgi Kadiev, Velizar Enchev and Antony Trenchev. 8. The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev three questions, Svetoslav Belemezov, Zhelyo Boychev, Dragomir Stoinev, Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Georgi Kadiev, and two questions from the MP Slavi Binev. 9. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev. On the basis of art. 92, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, delaying answers by seven days asked the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions, with written answer from the MPs Miho Mihov two questions, and Lachezar Nikiforov. Due to illness, the Minister of Culture Mr. Vecdi Rashidov and Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to a prior commitment with international participation, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate in the meeting for parliamentary control. Due to the expiry of the working hours of the National Assembly the time is now 14.00, I am closing today's meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Tomorrow, 9:00 p.m., we continue with our weekly program.
