ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention is the draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 30 March to 1 April 2016: 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers: Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. 2. Project for a solution for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University Pleven. Importer: Council of Ministers. 3. Draft Law on ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with its attached payment schedule. Importer: Council of Ministers. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer: Council of Ministers. The item is intended to be the first for Thursday 31 March 2016. 5. Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. Importer: Council of Ministers. This is expected to be point two for tomorrow "Thursday, March 31. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the International Organisation for Francophonies and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the Additional Arrangement to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonies on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. Administrative Monitoring Report 2014 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). Importer: Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Civil Service Officer. Importer: Council of Ministers. One explanation. There are several amending and supplemental bills that have been adopted in the first vote by the National Assembly. Since the submitted Ministerial Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Civil Service has been linked to these laws already adopted at first reading, the idea is to adopt it in the first vote or after a debate to examine it, and to prepare a joint Bill under the Law on the Civil Service Officer, so that the time limits for proposals between first and second voting can run and to adopt a general Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Civil Service. 9. Parliamentary control under art. 91-103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly "Friday at 9.00 pm. The whole Friday is once again devoted only to parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposal for a National Assembly Programme. Vote 146 MPs: 131, against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. On the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My attitude will be on item 7 of the so proposed Agenda and Parliament's agenda for this week. Dear colleagues, Madam President! I suggest that you put the National Assembly to the vote to return to the Council of Ministers the monitoring report for 2014 on Roma integration. Colleagues, if we respect ourselves, this was also our position in the committees, we actually have a collection of clerical writings, from a document that may have been administered by a respected directorate, by respected people, but if we respect ourselves as a National Assembly, I suggest we return this report. We need, based on all these activities in the different ministries, in the municipalities, in the state, a comprehensive analysis on the problems of Roma integration.................... why it is happening, why it does not happen, what are the obstacles. I think that we should bring it back out of respect for ourselves because this report, taking it this way, will further discredit our work, treating it uncritically to a topic that is currently up to date, and not just at the moment that is part of the life of our Bulgarian society. That is why, Madam President, I appeal to you, as the committees in different forms have met favorably with the officials, or critically with them, we as the National Assembly, with this position to return the Report and the Council of Ministers to give us an analysis on the basis of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u3	Dear Mrs. Yankova, your proposal can only be made after a debate in plenary. There are six reports submitted by the committees to which this report is allocated, and there is no way, without the debate in plenary, to respect your proposal. So, when it comes to the Programme, then you will already state your position on the substance, but at the moment there is no way to return the report to the agenda of the importer. An offer has been made under the order of art. 50, para. 3 to include an item on the agenda. The importers are Mikhail Mikov and Christian Vigenin. They propose that a draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation, No 554-02-102, of 8 December 2015, with the importer Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs should be included in the Programme of the National Assembly for the period March 30. Mr. Mikov, you have the floor to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear MPs, it is obvious that normalising the relations of parliamentary cooperation between the countries of the European Union, including Bulgaria, and the parliament of the Russian Federation, is necessary. Secretary of State John Kerry was in Moscow several times in the last few months. The whole of Europe, the world, understands that a single response to the challenges of terrorism is needed. At the same time, there are plantation lists that hinder and thwart parliamentary co-operation. It is for this reason that, because of the growing understanding that there must be a single, common response against terrorism, we also propose the relevant Project for a solution. It envisions strengthening interparliamentary contacts and taking action by the executive to drop the petition lists of parliamentarians. I believe that this decision will also contribute to the common European solution, because such issues are already being discussed in Europe, and very soon this issue will be resolved. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u5	I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in the Weekly Programme of this Draft Decision. They voted 129 MPs: 52, against 21, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Vigenin, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u6	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, we have not been able to vote, and I would therefore like to propose a re-vote, but along with this, I call on those of you who are holding back, to show a little more courage, to vote for abstention, because for me abstention means that you generally agree with this proposal, but something stops you from showing a little more courage. Do not worry, this decision will in no way violate the image of Bulgaria. On the contrary, we will take one brave step that everyone is waiting for. These issues have been discussed and are resolved in this direction at European Parliament level, but it is necessary for a Member to take the initiative. This isn't about a thorough review, the sanctions don't want it. We suggested it, you rejected it. This is about giving interparliamentary dialogue a chance. Since, in recent months and years, the European Union has made some tactical and strategic mistakes in relations with Russia, that parliamentary dialogue has been blocked is one of the mistakes that we all have to admit. Pushing parliamentary dialogue in another direction, not towards the European Union, is a long-term problem that is currently being created. So let us accept it and ask the government to think about it, to propose how this can happen in the framework of a dialogue with colleagues from the European Union, with the Russian Federation in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u7	It's a re-vote. They voted 135 MPs: 51, against 37, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u8	How did the chairman of the friendship group vote? I thought they were in Moscow.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u9	Messages, colleagues. Laws and draft decisions entered into force from 23 March to 29 March 2016. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code with importer Volen Siderov and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Law of the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importers: Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy and Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is leading. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importer Emil Dimitrov and Stefan Kenov. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Project for a decision to build protective facilities along the state border with the Hellenic Republic with importer Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Foreign Policy. A bill on collective management of copyright and related rights. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill for industry organisations of farmers and processors of agricultural production. The importer is Rumen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. A bill to supplement the Law on State Fees. The importer is Antony Trenchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. A bill to supplement the Penal Code. The importer is Valentin Radev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs as the lead both the Defence Committee and the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Bill amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. More will be seen by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Project Declaration on the 13th anniversary of the involvement of the Republic of Bulgaria in the war against Iraq. Importer is Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area of the three related Additional Protocols and the Final Act to the Agreement. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. More will be seen by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Financing Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Fund of the Agreement between the creditors on the initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises between the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Union, the European Investment Bank and the European Investment Fund and the Betting Treaty between the Republic of Bulgaria as a pledge and the European Investment Fund as a pledge. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. On 28 March 2016 he received and was distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Administration adopted at the first vote on 17 March 2016. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 78 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 28 March 2016 he received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Law on Bankruptcy adopted on the first vote on 11 March 2016. The draft was drawn up by the Commission on Legal Issues on the grounds of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication is again being made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 24 March 2016, the National Assembly was granted the own-initiative and adopted by the Economic and Social Council, Resolution By my letter the material was sent to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Interior's programming budget for 2015, a Report on the implementation of the policies and budgetary programmes of the Ministry of Economy for 2015 and a summary thereof. The reports shall be made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees as well as to the Members of the National Assembly's Library. And the latest communication from the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in March 2016. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Mikov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I appeal to you to invite the Minister of Health at a convenient time for him today, because there is a very crisis situation in the country with the treatment of citizens - millions of citizens are affected by the protest actions currently taking place - to inform what is happening. There is serious tension and it is good for him to inform the National Assembly what is happening, what measures are being taken, how long this chaos in healthcare will continue. I believe that this is an issue that affects millions of Bulgarian citizens and it is good for the National Assembly to have information as well. So you can invite him to come and introduce us. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. I will implement your proposal and invite Minister Moskov to come to the National Assembly to inform us about these issues. Colleagues, we're going to point one: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND TAXES. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u12	Thank you. Please, first of all, for a procedure to allow Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Tsvetlin Tsvetanov, Executive Director of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, and Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u13	Please vote on the procedural proposal made by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. They voted 114 MPs: for 107, against 4, abstention 3. Please invite the faces to the hall. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, as we will still be looking at the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and not the Law on Road Transport, I propose that the Minister of Finance, Deputy Minister of Finance, someone from the Ministry of Finance be invited to the Chamber. Because under the Local Taxes and Fees Act, we invited representatives of the Ministry of Transport. And then I'll tell you why we're doing it. But my procedure now is to invite the minister or representatives from the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u15	Yes, call Minister Goranov or Deputy Minister of Finance and invite them. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u16	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016. At a meeting held together with the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on 17 March 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Anton Ginev Deputy Minister, Krasimira Stoyanova Director of the Department of Legal Affairs and Krasimir Kalajdzhiev Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration.Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy. The bill was presented by Mrs. Diana Yordanova. The bill proposes the introduction of a new tax on taxing the activity of carrying out taxi transport of passengers. The amendments provide for taxable persons to be carriers holding a certificate of registration by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration and authorised to carry passengers by the mayor of the municipality concerned when carrying out the activity or drivers carrying out the taxi transport of passengers on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account. It is proposed by the Bill to set limits of the annual amount of tax of 400 BGN. up to 1000 BGN, its specific size is determined by a regulation of the Municipal Council of the municipality on whose territory the transport is carried out. The tax will be fixed for each individual vehicle and declared by 31 December of the previous year and will be paid in two equal instalments. There is also a specific order for declaring and paying tax at the beginning of the year, as well as the possibility of recovering an overpaid tax on termination when the full amount of tax has been paid. The relevant amendments to the Road Transport Act concerning the authorisation to carry out this activity are also provided for. Requirements should be laid down for drivers of light taxi cars in order to improve the quality of the service and ensure the safety and safety of passengers. It is proposed that authorisations issued until the entry into force of the law should remain valid for the period for which they were issued but not later than 31 December 2017. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held in which Mrs. Menda Stoyanova informed the participants about the written opinions received by the Commission on the bill. To support the bill are the opinions of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria, the Association for the Not-for-Profit of the Ministry of Finance, the Association of Taxi Drivers and Carriers, the Association of Taxi Trade Unions in Bulgaria and the National Union of Carriers. Opinions on the failure to support the bill have been received by the National Association for the Protection of Carriers and Taxi Drivers and the Independent Transport Union AUTO 94, which believe that the tax should be linked to the actual income from the activity and authorisations should also be issued to drivers of passenger taxi cars and the same should be taxable persons. During the discussion of the bill Mrs. Stoyanova proposed that the following amendments and additions be made between the two votes of the bill: First, when the driver of the taxi is operating on behalf of the carrier, but on his own account, the granting of this right must be made compulsory and only by a written contract to be entered in the Register of the Executive Agency. Secondly, let the register become public. Thirdly, to introduce a ban on the driver of a taxi vehicle to which the right to work on behalf of a carrier is granted to another driver. Fourth, to grant the mayor of the municipality concerned the right to terminate the authorisation granted to the carrier if the carrier has unpaid taxes notified by the National Revenue Agency under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Fifthly, the taxable person for an alternative tax is only the carrier and others. In the course of the discussion, the members of the Commission agreed on the opinion of the principle support of the draft by discussing the amendments and additions proposed by Mrs Stoyanova between his two votes. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u18	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! A correction to the so-accepted Programme for today on e.g. 3 "The Draft for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the governance and conditions of the Turkey Facility for the benefit of refugees. I suggest that the point be considered after the break so that Mrs. Meglena Kuneva can attend the meeting. At these hours she can't come because there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers, so I suggest that. 3 to be considered after the break in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u19	If we get to that point before the break, I'll put to the vote the proposal you made. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. The Law proposes the introduction of a new alternative tax to tax the activity of carrying out the taxi transport of passengers. For all other activities carried out by taxable persons, taxation will be in accordance with the Corporate Income Tax Act, respectively, under the Income Tax Act of natural persons. Persons who will be taxable persons shall be specific. Limits of the annual amount of tax on the taxi transport of passengers are proposed and the specific amount will be determined by a regulation of the municipal council. The terms and conditions for declaring and submitting the tax are laid down. There are also proposals for the relevant amendments resulting from the proposed changes, the Law on Corporate Income Tax, the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals and the Law on Road Transport. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Finance, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and associations in the field of taxi transport of passengers expressing the principle support for the bill. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government with 8 votes............................................................................................... and 3 votes.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kotseva. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Ananiev, President of the Commission, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe The Commission on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Local Taxes and Fees Act No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016. At a meeting held on 17 March 2016, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, together with the Committee on Budget and Finance, discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 654-01-28, submitted by Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Krasimira Stoyanova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Krasimir Kalajdzhiev, Deputy Executive Director of the Executive Agency, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications in the Ministry of Finance, and representatives of branch organizations in the field of taxi transport of passengers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Diana Yordanova. The amendment of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees proposes the introduction of a new alternative tax to tax the operation of taxi transport of passengers. It sets limits on the annual amount of tax on the taxi transport of passengers. It is envisaged that the specific amount of the tax should be determined by a decree of the municipal council of the municipality on the territory of which the taxi transport of passengers will take place. The tax on taxi transport of passengers will be due for each individual car with which a taxi transport of passengers will be carried out. The bill provides for the tax on the taxi transport of passengers to be declared by 31 December of the previous year and to be paid in two equal instalments within the following time limits by 31 December of the previous year and by 30 June of the year for which it is due in the municipality for the territory of which a taxi transport of passengers has been granted. By 31 December of the previous year, the total amount of the annual tax on passenger taxi transport is intended to make a discount of five per cent. There is also a specific order for declaring and paying tax at the start of the year, as well as the possibility of recovering an overpaid tax as a result of termination of the activity during the year for which the full amount of the annual tax on passenger tax has been paid. The taxation of the taxi transport of passengers is linked to the authorisation to carry out this activity and therefore changes are also envisaged in the Road Transport Act. They define the requirements for drivers of passenger taxi cars. It is proposed that drivers are not convicted of a deliberate crime of general nature or of a transport offence and/or are not deprived of the right to drive a motor vehicle by judicial or administrative procedure. They shall also not impose administrative penalties for the management of a motor vehicle with a concentration of alcohol in the blood of more than 0,5 per thousand to 1.2 per thousand including psychologically fit within the meaning of the Ordinance under art. 152, para. 1, t. 2 of the Road Traffic Act and have a certificate of driver of a light taxi car. According to the importers of the bill, these requirements aim to improve the quality of taxi services, to ensure the security and safety of passengers and other road users. The amendment of certain provisions of the Road Transport Act provides that the taxi transport of passengers is to be carried out by registered carriers and by persons operating on behalf of a registered carrier but on their own account. Another amendment to the Road Transport Act relates to the period of validity of the authorisation for the taxi transport of passengers issued by the municipality concerned, which becomes compulsory one year. The grounds for refusal of authorisation and for termination of the rights deriving from the authorisation are also laid down as these rules are currently not regulated in the Law. A transitional period has been envisaged with regard to the authorisations granted until the proposed provisions come into force for the carriage of passengers by taxi. The authorisations issued shall remain valid for the period for which they were issued but shall not be longer than 31 December 2017. The same transitional period shall also be provided for the driver's certificates of light taxi cars. In the course of the debates on the Bill, opinions were expressed by the Members of the National Assembly on the clarification of certain provisions concerning the possibility for persons to carry out taxi transport of passengers on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 8 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. On behalf of the contributors, the People's Representative Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, with the proposed Bill, we are changing regulations in two parts in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees and in the Law on Road Transport. In our first part, we propose the introduction of an alternative tax on the tax activity of carrying out the taxi transport of passengers, with the main amendments providing for taxable persons to be carriers holding a certificate of registration by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Automobile Administration and authorised for the taxi transport of passengers by the mayor of the municipality concerned when carrying out the activity or persons carrying out the taxi transport of passengers on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account. The bill provides, as you have already heard in the reports, the boundaries between 400 and 1000 BGN. for an alternative tax, its specific amount will be determined by a decision of the municipal council. We are ready between first and second readings to adopt a proposal to drop the lower limit to 300 BGN. If a person makes a simple account here, because the main objections to the submitted bill in this part..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Colleagues, if we split 400 leva. on the days of the year, and on the working day, it turns out that less than 1 lev should be set aside per day in order for the driver concerned to meet his obligation. If the municipal councils accept an upper limit of 1000 BGN. for patent tax, this means that the amount to be paid per day is not more than 3 BGN. I think this is stronger for absolutely everyone who is engaged in any activity or business in Bulgaria. We have provided for a specific order for the declaration, the payment of the tax, an obligation, before issuing a certificate by the mayor of the municipality concerned, to present a document for such a tax. If activity is started during the year or is terminated during the year, there is also a specific line that is indicated. Why do we want to return the lost in 2007 introduction of the so-called patentive tax? I'm just going to point out a few numbers. In practice, since then, almost nothing of the income tax on taxi services has been collected. The introduction of an alternative tax at a minimum threshold, as I said, from 400 BGN. Annually, it will contribute to the budget of municipalities at least 9 million. BGN, which is twice what the drivers are currently paying together, notice, with social and health insurance contributions. In addition, in the direction of decentralisation that we are all talking about and pleading so much, I think this will be an additional source of income that will allow for an increase in local finances - part of the decentralisation policy. I just want to point out some numbers. According to data from the National Revenue Agency in 2014 and 2015, less than 6 million are collected. lv. in the form of taxes and social security contributions. Examples specifically for the Regional Directorate of NRA Burgas, which includes the districts of Burgas, Yambol and Sliven: including the summer season, with all fees on the territory of the resorts of the Southern Black Sea coast, for 2014, with approximately 1200 licenses issued, submitted, notice, only 150 declarations, the corporate tax collected is worth 10 thousand. £620. Ten thousand! A for the territorial directorate of Plovdiv, under 1000 licenses, collected corporate tax. BGN, colleagues. When I saw the numbers, I thought there was some mistake and some zero was forgotten. It turned out, however, that these were the facts. The statistics we have made show that, with each passing year, the imported taxes of this type of activity, unfortunately, are decreasing. In 2014 they amounted to approximately 5 million for the whole country. $800,000. BGN and in 2015 their amount has already fallen to 5 million. BGN, and this becomes, notice, against the background of the ever increasing number of taxis. In 2015 only 3485 carriers were registered in Bulgaria. Since the beginning of this year we have 103 new companies registered for this activity. The number of taxis in 2015 was 23 157. Only on Sofia's territory are currently moving about 8,000 taxis. The exact number is 7964, which is several more than last year. Against this background, the amount of taxes paid, as I have already said, is insignificant and shows how gray the taxi service sector is. With regard to the changes we propose in the VID of the Car Transport Act, the text that arouses the greatest discontent and excitement is in art. 24. He says that after the word "vehicle" a carrier should be added to the list of drivers carrying out the activity on behalf of a registered carrier, but at its own expense, something we perceive as correct and we will do between first and second readings. This text, in order to avoid any doubts, that again the so-called "droppers" will be allowed to work, will enable large companies, because at the joint meeting of the Budget and Finance Committee and the Transport Commission I could not find the sharp border between large and small carriers. The big ones ended up with a thousand cars, and the small ones, notice, with 500 cars. For me, a carrier with 500 cars is by no means small, but this is another topic. With regard to the tensions that have arisen, as we have already commented to the Committee on Budget and Finance, we have indicated what proposals will be tabled. I mean, they're prepared. Between the two votes, we will make proposals that we, as importers, perceive. I'd like to comment on some of them. First, as regards the fact that it must be clearly regulated who the taxable persons are other than those mentioned in this section, it must be very clear that an alternative tax will be due to a car, note not to a car-owned company, i.e. any charge will pay such an alternative tax. The carriers themselves will have issued such authorisations. In order for there to be no doubt, what we have commented on will be settled with changes that will say that relations between carriers and drivers of cars will be governed by a written contract which we will oblige to become public on the one hand. On the other hand, the names of the drivers who will operate on behalf of a registered carrier, but on their own account, will be entered, on the one hand, by amending Regulation 34, concerning the Car Transport Act, in the licence issued, a certificate for carrying out such a taxi activity, and in the certificate to be issued by each mayor of a municipality. These lists, registers will be public in order to ensure maximum transparency of who is authorised, who is exercising the activity, who is responsible for something that we have all fought for anyway. Colleagues, apart from the public register, will oblige the authorisations issued to be named and cannot, for any reason, be passed on. The permit will be obtained, as I have already said, after a paid patent tax. Another proposal - I am finishing, which is right to do and must be supported - is to empower the mayor of the municipality concerned, who will issue the permit, to terminate the operation if the carrier has outstanding tax obligations after notification under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code by the National Revenue Agency. Colleagues, I think it's high time we put order in this business. I think the proposed changes are the only way to bring out the gray sector and some of the bad image of the industry to be cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. We as Parliament and you as a guide, see that every day you surprise us with something new. We have just witnessed something that I think the National Assembly has never been a rule before. The last 10 minutes, the importer has been telling us what they're gonna bring into the Law. Why haven't you gentlemen brought it in yet?! I beg you very much, Mr. Chairman, the next time an importer speaks, let him say what he imports, what it is about, what he has to argue about! Not to say what he's importing, because it's not an importer's offer, it's someone who has an idea to import. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. If possible, this must, of course, be taken into account, but the way in which the bill will be presented is entirely within the scope of the importer. Thank you. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u28	Mr. President, I ask for a procedure: to put to the vote an extension of the period between the first and second reading of the Real Estate Credit Bill for consumers by another two weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u29	I put to the vote the proposal to extend the period between the first and second reading of the quoted bill. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u30	Colleagues, before we begin the debate on the bill after it is presented to us by the importer, to inform you that at 10.30 PM Minister Moskov will be in the National Assembly at the request of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mrs. Kuneva will be present on t. 3 "Project for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a governance framework and the conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the Certificate of Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with its attached payment schedule. This is in response to what was requested earlier this morning by representatives and participants in the Conference of Presidents. Since it can be here after 12:00, in view of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, if we get to the point, then I will make a procedural proposal to exchange points so we can watch Ratification in the presence of the deputy prime minister on this topic. The debate is open. Please, the Members of the National Assembly wishing to take account of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! The first thing I would like to say about the bill so tabled, which we are looking at today, is that it has been tabled in violation of art. 79 of our Rules. He says that the bill, which was rejected in the first vote, can only be tabled after substantial changes in its main situations, which there is no such bill. The bill itself. We won't support him. There seems to be an understanding in the ruling majority now, and you will support it. However, I would like to say a few things that I consider important. We continue to argue that the Bill serves only the interests of large carriers. This has been said repeatedly in the previous debate. Under no circumstances is the bill, unfortunately, Mrs. Yordanova, putting no order in this business.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u32	He's just putting it on!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u33	If you had so many proposals that we heard once from Mrs. Stoyanova, then long and wide in violation of any rules, and from Mrs. Yordanova, between first and second reading, what was the problem with making them in a bill that meets our Rules, you withdrew the point last week and submitted something that has really serious, significant changes and meets the expectations of the industry? With regard to the reasons that are being set out, why this is being done, and that, you see, this proposal serves the interests of the municipalities, because this is how the revenues will enter the municipalities, but so far the revenues have been minimal. Well, the revenues are minimal, Mrs. Yordanova, because this is not a problem of the Law, but a problem of control that needs to be carried out. I have not heard anywhere here, and in the proposals that you will make, that the control over the activity of taxi services will be controlled by the National Revenue Agency, that the turnover will be reported where all the turnovers of the small, large and all business in the country are accounted for, of course, in the appropriate order. This is where the dog is buried, as they say. Concerned about direct taxes that must be entered into municipalities with which there are clearly problems, I agree with that, bypassing the payment of value added tax. This is the goal of serving large carriers, and they have a thousand each, with two thousand cars, not to pay value added tax with this particular queue, as you called it last time, taxi drivers to work on behalf of large carriers at their own expense. These proposals you're going to make, we're going to discuss them. I hope they will lead to some improvement, which I doubt very much, but the drivers themselves who were on strike in the organized strike on the Eagle Bridge have themselves said that if the old Act remains, they will have to pay taxes of 400 leva, which means that they have not paid anything and will continue to pay nothing, because this, when changes are clearly promised to them and therefore none of them has fulfilled the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u34	A line to Mr. Turnover? Here you go, Mr. Stoev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u35	Madam President, honourable Members! My line to colleague Turnovallisky. What's wrong with increasing revenue in municipalities? It is clear that the tax that we are seeking to enter now is a one-time and final tax that is quickly administered is quickly collected. It is not like the corporate tax, which must pass the year.. there is another day until the legal persons' declarations are submitted, but by the end of April for the sole traders, and the National Revenue Agency has no capacity to go to any company and to any carrier. This may be one of the easiest ways to collect and administer this tax, for example in two, three installments, a discount which imported the tax at the beginning of the year, the municipal council, in broad agreement, adopted it at the beginning of the year. I think there is no conflict, that the industry's expectations are in this direction, because much more complicated is the life of a carrier, if it has to conduct revenues, costs, to pay an accountant additional costs. When I was in the tax administration, there were people who said, "We want to pay a patent and not have accountants on our heads, not have others to pay monthly. After all, he pays a tax and no longer needs accounting services. Otherwise, think about it, 12 months for someone to do his bookkeeping and take his monthly money. This is in the expectations of the industry and I think it is a good and quick way to administer and collect revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u36	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u37	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am a little surprised by the fellow Member's speech. I understand he was the head of the IRS, and I'm surprised his signature wasn't under the importers. Whoever worked in this field should know that this is the only way to collect any income from any activity. I can assure you that no more than a year, if you sign taxi licenses, you will come to the conclusion that this is the only way to collect any revenue. And as for the fact that money enters the municipalities, it is insane, provided that the municipalities maintain their road network where 99% of the taxis move. All Members in this House should support this Law and, if they have any comments, between first and second readings to propose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u38	The third line is Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Turnovallisky, since I know your expertise and I am deeply convinced that you are making a very clear difference between an alternative tax and a patent tax, it is somehow wrong to mislead colleagues. You know very well that alternative tax replaces corporate tax and personal income tax and in no way affects the turnover of the companies concerned. That is, if the firm exceeds 50,000. lv. turnover, it must be registered under VAT, unlike the patent tax, which is only patent tax, regardless of the relevant turnover. You know that very well. Regarding whether or not changes should be made, you know very well that there is no way to do it in the Law, but a change should be made to Decree No 34 of the Law on Road Transport, in which it will actually prove to be and the remote connection between the National Revenue Agency and the turnover of the cash register should be made. In order to do so, however, it is necessary to change the cash registers themselves, because in practice, they do not have such an opportunity. This is the next step in which I think we will be supported by you to ask the Minister of Transport to make the change so that everyone can be calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u40	A hole, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Stoev, I didn't say I was against revenue going to the municipalities. No, I didn't. I just said I didn't. I doubt that since the National Revenue Agency does not have the capacity to control this activity, municipalities will have better and more effective control. That's just ridiculous as a statement. The other thing you said, you see how they wouldn't be keeping accounts now, less spending would be doing the exact opposite. Mrs. Yordanova confirmed it. They have to keep accounts because they have to keep track of their income, and when they pass 50 grand, they have to register for value added tax. Mrs. Yordanova, here you are fooling the audience, trying to fool people about paying taxes for this activity. Yes, one part is direct taxes, there is no dispute there, I am.......................... to be patented, but with the possibility of drivers working on their own behalf on behalf of the carriers. Thus, the turnover of these carriers is broken down into multiples that will not be registered under VAT because they will make turnover below 50 thousand. BGN, and thus the state will lose millions. We considered them over 100 million VAT revenues. Here's the lobbying text. That's why we're doing this. That's why it's done! Do not pay value added tax for this activity. My colleagues have suggested that we make an offer and that the banks move on to a patent. That way we can ensure their peace of mind to work. It'll be easier to collect taxes. All this is done only with the aim of large carriers not paying value added tax. That's very easy to prove. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u42	Any other MPs? Anyone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u43	Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, honourable importers of this Bill! Isn't there a big problem with the taxi industry? Aren't you all telling us how you don't pay taxes, how taxi drivers protest? And now that Mrs. Tsacheva asks if there are any speeches from those people who want to be supported, no one will speak. You, when presenting the reasons, honourable Members, presented other reasons. Mrs. Yordanova, in the text you propose........................................................................ 24, writes an authorised person. Here you said the authorized driver. Do you know how big the difference is between one and the other? [[GERB lines.]] Well, if you know why you're fooling 140 MPs? You're not talking about a taxi driver, you're talking about an authorized person. Among other things, fellow Members, for the reasons for this bill to be viewed today in plenary, there are three reasons. First of all, lightening the business, I agree with you. Not a single lev paid taxes from a taxi business. Zero, zero leva taxes paid! Whose problem is it, though? Is that a taxi driver's problem? Is this a problem for taxi companies or taxi carriers? Isn't that a state issue? Isn't the administration's problem a tax, local, whatever it is? Why are we blaming them? So if there's a problem with the tax collection, the discussion goes somewhere else. The second motive is the safety of passengers. The colleagues Valkov and Mihov were right when a year ago they proposed that this change should not be able to pass on cars. Let's just say that's where your cock is. Let's just say that's where the lobbying is, that's the problem. The problem is not the alternative tax. Whether or not it will exist, you will decide it as a ruling majority. And whether it's 400 or 1000 BGN, or 300 BGN, as I've heard, my colleagues at ABB want it, you'll still suggest it, and the local municipal authorities will decide it. But that's not the problem. You're tight. 24, which is due to enter into force on 1 April. And let's be honest with people about what you're doing. On March 30th, you want to abolish the current norm in law. And even that you didn't do properly, because the Law that you imported says that the Law is effective from 1 January 2017. Well, tell me, on 2 April these 23,000 cars that didn't become taxi carriers, what are they going to do? You don't even solve this problem. In an effort not to return the commitment you have made to a certain part of this taxi industry, you are making a mistake following a mistake. You introduce one law, Mrs. Stoyanova, my respects, full support for the proposals you made in the Commission, but they are not in these texts, Mrs. Stoyanova! This was a subject of another law.. discussed, and you would have my support, only that you proposed one thing, and in the Commission you are talking about quite another thing. And once again I say to you: colleagues, let's look at first reading only the titles of the laws: the Local Taxes and Fees................................ for....................................................................................................... Because, I said in previous statements, if this Law is adopted today, honourable Members, Bulgarian society does not need us. This parliament is full of lobbying. Understand it! And the fact is that the actions you do are to enter texts, to export texts, to insert into points. 3, subtract from the program. That, you know, doesn't work that way without nothing, no calls, no comments? If we want to have confidence in society, if we want people to trust you and us as much as possible, work under the rules of the legislative process. You're entering the Local Tax and Tax Act. Representatives of the Ministry of Transport are present and there is none from the Ministry of Finance. [[Heckling]] Why is he standing up there? Let's go downstairs. He can't answer me from above if I have any questions. On this bill that you submitted, the Ministry of Transport has three or four opinions. All four support different species. Which position is correct, I can't understand. They agreed with art. 24. They said it was the right thing to do, that this was the fight against the gray sector. Other colleagues then submitted to drop out, and they agreed with that. The carriers then said: "Our deadline is very small " January 1st, let's do it 1st of July. " They wanted it 1st of July, I didn't ask for it. I suggested April 1st. Well, I ask you: how did they want it to happen by July 1st, and now on April 1st they say, "This thing doesn't work for us?"! With these false protests you're organizing yourself to give you courage in making decisions, it's not gonna work. Your people understand. Drivers: four drivers and gave their opinion.. four different opinions. One protested over the high prices of bread, the other protested because of taxes, and only one guessed, apparently told him to protest the deadline April 1st. From such protests no one has any interest, including the opposition. I've witnessed all kinds of protests, all kinds of words, but a protest organized by the government, with a full majority to get their lyrics into the program, is that's what I saw for the first time last week. There are experienced parliamentarians here, let them tell us if this has ever happened before. You propose that the alternative tax will enter into force from 1 January 2017. Well, why are we doing this so quickly? We have seven or eight months until the budget is adopted. Download this Law. Put in a law on how to tax this kind of activity, watch it calmly, normally. There's a lower limit, an upper limit, why does everything have to be sad? But it works because your shoe is tightening in April 1st, for which you have made commitments to drop out. And I'm not saying that you made a commitment. That's what the people who staged the protest are saying. Speaking again February of one of their representatives, he says: "Colegi, do not register. I've arranged everything. On April 1st, this Law will not act. These people are laughing at all of us. And we're contributing to this thing with our actions. Come on, once parliament is, to show some power to show some power, albeit for the taxi industry, let alone other services. [[Noise and lines.]] Thank you. I see that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to the statement made? A line, Mr. Georgiev? Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, but don't generalize like that from the stands. Only one part of this House is responsible for this Bill and for being extremely confused. Not all of us together, but certain colleagues are only guilty of this. And let's face it. My fellow Members, I am reading this Bill and I wonder if a more confused bill could have been tabled?! [[GERB lines.]] Well, it's a line because Mr. Svilensky told you too. And he's not right about summarizing everyone in the room. He has to tell us who the importers are, and they're guilty. And they are responsible for the confusion of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u47	That's what he said, isn't it?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u48	That's not what you said! He should have made it perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u49	Yeah, yeah. Here, Mr. Lazarov, I agree Mr. Georgiev gives the same assessment in substance as Mr. Svilenski. His line is who's making the contribution. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u50	I ask the importers about Mr. Svilensky's statement: what tax will people pay now? Property tax or activity tax? Tomorrow, colleagues, I will introduce a bill on tax on hairdressing services. And there I'm going to ask for a tax on every comb the hairdressers use and on every scissors. You've got the wrong thinking and the wrong...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u51	But, to Mr. Svilensky, address him to improve the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u52	That's what I'm saying. Mr. Svilensky should have explained this to you. You have the wrong thinking and the wrong approach in determining tax policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u53	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, allow me to direct you to a direction that you may be missing precisely because the importers were talking about how we would fill the budget. If I remember the previous arguments for the Law of November 2015 with importer Menda Stoyanova, then it was said how we fill the budget. We are filling the local budget, unless colleagues do not mean that they will save some spending from the central budget in the direction of local budgets. Let me draw your attention to one thing you're missing. How equal will it be for individual payers of the respective tax in the individual parts of the country? In other words, will there be a level playing field in Sofia, a level playing field in Plovdiv, Troyan and other settlements? Will there be a level playing field with regard to the fact that the tax is on a car, with three users of the car in one place and only one in another?! From this point of view, do we put ourselves in the same position, in parith, the respective perpetrators of this service? Moreover, should we not fight to eliminate the grey sector by all methods and to respect the biggest contributor to the state budget, such as VAT, by trying to eliminate the practices of concealing turnover, rather than stimulating them?! Please explain this to the House. I think one of my fellow Members will make a statement to make a good debate in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. You seem to be putting a lot of expectations on Mr. Svilenski to improve the bill. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I took the liberty to say all of us. The draft proposed by colleagues Valkov and Mihov, regulating the activities stopping corruption, was supported by all MPs without one........................... and without one........................ by all political forces................................................................................................................................................................................... But not on one day, imported on the 13th and adopted on the 14th, but imported on 13 June and adopted on 20 October, after four months of discussions in sectors, associations, in the Transport Commission and in the plenary and for the reason that there was none against, including us, we accepted it in the first and second votes. That's why I'm saying we all have a responsibility. And specifically for this Bill, it is being imported for the second time. The same bill with different importers. The majority is configured according to the various interests, so I can't explain which one is the originator, but I think for most of you it becomes clear. If I have offended some colleagues by this generalization that they are protecting lobbyist interests, colleagues, not all of you. This will become clear in the vote. I'm sorry if I offended you. Mr. Alexandrov, that this Bill is wrong, is mistaken that this Bill has been written for one single purpose on the date of April 1st not to enter into force the Law on Road Transport, it became clear. This alternative tax will never come into effect, and believe me, I say it here in front of everyone and in front of the media when the time comes in November, December Then there will be 2-3 thousand in front of parliament. They'll say, "We don't want you to separate us from the other activity." Because I've talked to them. They say, "We want to pay taxes, but we want to be like any business, corporate, patented and whatever it is in the country. What business pays another such alternative tax? Tell me! I'll tell you, we checked it out just gambling. Only casinos pay an alternative tax and the carriage of cargo on ships. I think taxi activity is neither shipping cargo on ships nor gambling. And there the money can be collected very clearly, very clearly the business can be controlled if there is a desire. This is Mr. Tsvetanov from the Automobile Administration. Let's say how many inspectors have you given him in Sofia to check the industry? How many are there, Mr. Tsvetanov 20, 30 people? [[Reply by Mr. Tsvetanov: "Twenty."]] That's twenty. Twenty people in Sofia control the transportation industry.. taxi cars, driver's licenses, trucks, transport companies. Twenty people on three shifts means seven people. What control do you want, what taxes?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u57	Thank you. Any further comments? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u58	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! You all know very well what we're here for today. It's not about taxes or taxes at all. You know very well that it is not taxes and taxes or collections that are why importers import this Law. Dear colleagues, this is a camouflage law. For the most part, the texts of this Law serve as an ornament that should deceive you must conceal the only thing that is important in it, which is important for some of the MPs in this Parliament, and that is to return an old situation, to return a brief phrase or by drivers performing the activity on behalf of a registered carrier, but at their own expense. There is the heart of this Law. Everything else is a pacifier that you put in your mouth, to suck a little bit from here, while they deceive you that you collect taxes and fees, that you distribute them, even decentralized to municipalities, as well as other lies. It's actually a very small phrase, but a very big bite for the cab mafia. Dear Members of Parliament, remember this phrase. She's the key to this bill. A little further on, I'll go back to her in my speech. Thirteen years ago, this phrase started the cartelization of the taxi service market in Bulgaria. Until September of last year, this cartel acted undisturbedly when suddenly the amendment of the Mihov-Vulkov most unexpectedly threatened them with the completion of this wonderful little monopoly, which has arranged these few big taxi companies whose names are absolutely all in this room you know. For example, in October last year, the first lobbyist push started. It was an epic war to bring in the patent tax. They convinced us how the patent tax would fix the whole thing. But that lobbyist push didn't make it back then. The correction in the Car Transport Act is one of our two worthy colleagues from GERB. I take this opportunity to thank them, very rarely will you meet in politics decent and fair conduct. I am proud to have been chairman of the Transport Commission at the time when these people brought in and took out their fight to lighten up the taxi service sector. Ugly lobbying in October has only resulted in the introduction of their amendment for April 1st of this year. The taxi companies were given five months if they wanted to hire employees to know, by getting into a taxi, who is responsible for the lives and health of us, our children, our families, our relatives, some third party, some leader or other fantasy that is now being offered in the new version. And because, by some perverse legislative logic, they can't call it a patent tax, they called it an alternative tax. I wonder how many more things you'll come up with to protect your lobbying engagements? How many more things can the tax genius in the country come up with to cover up the text that amends the Car Transport Act? Today we are faced with the third lobbyist push to keep the status quo in taxi transports a status quo of bad service, tax evasion, cartel status quo. I don't feed illusions, I know that this time will pass, because these few large carriers are already speaking openly... have well counted your votes, know about the outcome of today's vote. They won't let this time screw-up because they're businessmen, they can value their money. Dear Members of Parliament, I am amazed at the frank insolence with which the importers of these amendments convince you that if they are not accepted today, there will be some apocalypse in the taxi industry. For example, I hear them here that there will be revenue in the budget, where there are currently none. They say they're going to protect taxi drivers who, otherwise from April 1st, you see, have nowhere to go to work, and their families are probably going to starve to death. But they're lies! The big losers of the amendments that you are going to vote on today, I will tell you who they are: first of all are taxi drivers. You didn't talk to them. Talk to them, don't talk to any pagers and lackeys of the monopoly who present themselves to you as representatives of the drivers. The truth about them is that they work 12 hours a day, the truth is that they work six days a week, the truth is that if they bring 500, 600 levs. income purely for them at the end, are happy. Are those the bad guys?! Is that where you directed this law?! Who are the other losers? Mostly the loser is the budget. It's very strange how always the thief shouts the loudest: Hold the thief! We'll collect taxes. This Law directly tells you that you will not collect taxes, that you are tossing some piece into more for the budget to which you are calling it an alternative tax and from there it is clear that no money will ever be collected again. In fact, the budget must collect its full collection of taxes from the real tax revenues of the taxi companies. But you hardly bothered to figure out where the real revenues stand. Finally, we are losers all of us s who use the taxi services because we have no guarantee of our security, good service and proper reporting of the service. Moreover, so imported, the bill allows customers to be frankly lied about being driven by the carrier. No, they're being driven by some driver. He's now changed to the new bill, but that's not the carrier. When you get on a bus company, does your sole salesman, who has no registration, at a fake address registered to an underprivileged fellow of ours? Is that what's happening? Either when you get on the plane, we'll register the particular plane in the name of one of the pilots, or we'll better go straight to the flight attendant. If you get hurt in a crash, if he's late, if it's dirty, if it's loud and so on, who are you complaining to? You think you're complaining to the big company carrier, you think she has a solidarity responsibility and so on. No, ladies and gentlemen! No! You're not complaining to the big company, you're complaining to some single merchant registered somewhere in a village. You'll never find him. Try it. You can try it very easily by getting on a taxi and reading what is written on the so-called cash note. You can see that the citizens have been wronged by this bill. It will continue the old order in which we will not know who is driving us and the responsibility will be blurry. It's also a bad budget, it's a bad driver. Then you ask in the equation: who wins? Let's follow the money. Let's see who's winning, so it's so passionately defended the third time a lobbyist amendment has already been introduced into the Car Transport Act. Who are we lobbying for, fellow Members?! Dear colleagues, the big winners are several large taxi companies. For the past 13 years, they have established a lasting economic cartel in the area of taxi services, they do not mourn forces, nor do they mourn funds, as can be seen, in order to keep this market for themselves only to prevent real competition. [[Reply.]] You don't trust me?! If you had brought in one of the financials and asked the Minister how much the revenues in the budget from the taxi activity were, not from the sale of cars on lease, but from taxi services. Don't be a sucker to pay taxes, such as with the new Law of Amendment and Supplement you offer them, you open the door to them for non-payment of the full amount of taxes. Also ask the General Labour Inspection, which constantly checks such fake companies registered at fake addresses in the names of underprivileged, as I said, our fellow citizens. Ask the Inspectorate how many such companies and how many fictitious employees of the employment contract are constantly involved. Ask them, for example, about the check they are doing at the moment as a sole trader, listen carefully, "Kommers Yordan Yanev" with more than 200 drivers registered, gentlemen and ladies importers! The same drivers you now give the right to operate on behalf of a carrier, but at their own expense. Two hundred! Do you know where they're registered? In the square. Benkowski, at the train station in a shack. This shack has never lived, a skinny man has never entered this shack. This is currently a running production in the Labour Inspectorate. Don't you know these things, fellow Members and the Budget Committee? If you do not know them, I will continue to inform you immediately. Then ask the taxi drivers who work for the big companies whether they are satisfied with the conditions under which they are forced to make a living. In the end, ask any citizen who has taken a taxi, whether he is satisfied with the security of the transport, the quality of the service, and whether he has finally received a cash bill. If they accidentally gave it to him, and if you didn't happen to look, here's where I brought you. [[shows receipts]] Have you seen what the receipt says? Look at this! On top is written the advertising name of the carrier and below is the name of the carrier and below is Elys N, Lazar Lazarov 634. On the other hand, the ET Rumen Dimitrov 777. Try to find these companies. [[GERB's line.]] These companies are organized by major monopolist companies. These false methods of work in the industry are organized by those of whom you are currently trying to cover up the dirty underwear and it is about big money, ladies and gentlemen. If you bother to calculate the market only in Sofia, it is over 300 million. lv. In our entire country, it should be maybe a double. So where's $50 million in VAT? Where did you see these revolutions in the public accounts I have at my disposal of large taxi companies holding at least 80% of the market? Where did you see this revenue? So when you go to the so-called "alternative tax" you actually save their skin and give them the sentence that a third party might even be involved in this activity on behalf of the registered carrier. Now let's follow the money to the end. Where does that money go because they're spinning around in this industry? But where do they go?! The big cab companies, ladies and gentlemen, and you need to know the ugly truth to the end, because tomorrow you don't say that you voted this bill, but you didn't really know what was being done in big companies, you've worked out a perfect scheme to circumvent the law, which, I'm absolutely sure if Don Vito Corleone had invented it, he'd be very proud of it. These companies get permissions for carriers, but they don't really drive anyone. They have several cars of their own and several thousand of the so-called contracts, disguised behind hollow companies, described on the so-called Kassasov bonne. However, this "cass' bonne" has little power for the tax administration, because the cash registers since 2006 are absolutely illegal, can be manipulated easily and are not connected to the National Revenue Agency (NAP). And if they're not connected to the NRA, remember, nothing comes in either. They won't get in any patent you come up with! Again, you will wash to the mafia in the taxi industry dirty laundry today by voting for the mafia. Let me give you another example to make it crystal clear what we're talking about. The taxi driver in the usual scheme, which is offered, plans to buy the taxi on payment and starts from the car's price. Because big companies are in a monopoly, they usually set you two to three times the price they buy the car at. Here's your first manifestation of the monopoly - non-market prices without the right to pardon. There's nowhere to go! Everyone works on almost the same terms. Thus each driver undertakes to import an average of around 800 leva per month only for the leasing of the car. From there to the so-called "Dispatch" station, which gives you the addresses, or those radio stations on which the managers called the rally of the Orlov Bridge, are paid for between 100 and 300 BGN. He's got fuel, insurance, repairs, liability, and if you don't give up, God, there's been some kind of accident. That is, he pays monthly solid over BGN 2400. Whatever's left on top is what he's going through. So what's he saving, first, the driver? Well, he's not paying his insurance. If he wants to pay, if he wants to be in white, as they say, no! That's not allowed in the cartel. In the cartel, you either hook up with the so-called low-rent companies, or I don't tell them the real name, or you're out of the Mafia. That's why we created... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm just asking to finish the sentence... we've created a mafia over the years that's about to be reconfirmed today, so that when it's confirmed, we can confirm what the wrestlers once did. Your wrestlers were sticking stickers to the glass. [[Noise and lines.]] Your wrestlers used insurance to keep you from stealing your own car. These guys stick their stickers on you so you can access the market. Of course, if someone replicates me, I'll finish what...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u59	First line "Mr. Bajraktarov; second line "Mr. Kadiev; third line " "Mr. Svilenski. [[Sighs:.]] You will make speeches. Mr. Ermenkov, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will make a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] At least I gave one of them the floor from BSP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u60	Thank you, Madam President. The reason for my line is some inaccuracies on the part of my colleague Karadzhov. Colleague Karadzhov, I'll start with the Labour Inspectorate first. Just a week ago, the Labour Committee made a full hearing. By the way, I want to tell you that the Labour Inspectorate only deals with violations of labour law. That's one. Second of all, I heard you hint at a cartel. However, I didn't hear you refer to the Commission for Protection of Competition. I heard you hinting at crimes. But I didn't hear if you'd called the D.A.'s office on these crimes, if there were any. I've heard you talk about vicious practices that have been publicly known to the public for years. However, I have not heard any alternatives on how to overcome these vicious practices, given that many of them are legislative acts and texts in force in the Commercial Law. That's what I didn't hear. And from there on, somehow your talking goes more into a position to cause any effect, but no action from that talking. I mean, I repeat, have I not heard the Commission for Protection of Competition addressed to a cartel, has the criminal prosecution been referred to, which texts in the Commercial Law must be overcome, so that these vicious practices do not happen only in relation to taxi activities, but in general all activities in Bulgaria? Because of such underprivileged groups, I can quote you as a journalist at least 50 memory cases, and it is quite serious millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u61	Second line, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u62	Dear Mr. Karadjov, honourable Members, the entire debate today describes very clearly a huge failure of the National Revenue Agency. When we talk about taxes on taxi transport, 2006 The taxi drivers were on patent tax. At that time, 7 million were gathered in the country. lv. We decided to pass on corporate tax like everyone else, the result today you see it, 10 years later............................................. the result today.................................................. lv. Colleague Diana Yordanova delivered data that, to me, is terrifying and I ask the question: why hasn't the Director of the National Police Agency been fired Burgas? Why do you have 1200 licensed taxi companies that filed 160 declarations? Absolutely everyone is obliged to file a declaration, even if it is zero and there is no activity. Why wasn't the same done in Plovdiv, in Varna, in the other major cities where there is obviously no control? Here we come to the conceptual question: since there is no control and the NRA is obviously not doing well, is it not better then to make this so called "alternative tax" which is a recognition of the weakness of the administration to collect the real tax, but at least more money will come in? Because, agree, the bill is simple: eight thousand taxi cars in Sofia, multiply it by the alternative quasi-proprietary tax of 800 or 1000 BGN. and collect in the simplest way more money. It's actually a confession of a weak administration. Always patent or alternative tax is recognition of weak administration. You are absolutely right, Mr. Karadjov, about the changes that are being made in It's the mafia. You said it, and I repeat it. The real importer of this text is not GERB. The real importer of this text is the mafia. The lobbying interests. Each of you who votes for this text today must know what you are doing. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u63	Mr. Svilenski, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karadjov, dear colleagues! Mr. Karadjov, you have very detailed, very accurately described what the situation is and when exactly thirteen years of history began. I'll just tell you that I've spoken to three ministers and three directors of the car administration. The six say, "That's the problem with reassigning cars, but we don't have the strength and courage to change it." I guess we're still not gonna have the strength and the courage to change it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u65	You won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u66	So, dear Mr. Karadjov, you asked many questions: how many acts, NRA, Labor Agency, Labour Inspection. Let's ask Mr. Tsvetanov the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration: how many acts are drawn up on car carriers in Sofia or in Bulgaria and how many taxi drivers have reached the positions one, two, five, ten thousand? Let's go out and tell him how many acts there have been written in the last month.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u67	Where's the line, mate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u68	No, my line is, why didn't you ask him? Madam President, if anyone has a problem talking... Let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u69	Mr. Ivanov, please stay out of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u71	I thought you were the chairman of the Commission. Why don't you ask him?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u72	Mr. Karadjov, you were Chairman of the Transport Commission and you are too clear what the problems are, who the importers are and why they are doing it right now and right now. Give an answer, however, to fellow Members of the National Assembly, because they need more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u73	A hole, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will address the journalist Bajraktarov, who came out of the room to answer him clearly and accurately. Only in the last week in a series of interviews have I delivered these facts. They are a good referral to the Attorney General for committing crimes in the taxi transport sector.......................... major tax crimes....................................................................... Secondly, when one thing is announced in the media, it is a good referral to the Attorney General. Let's not read the law in the back row, sorry. Thirdly, yes, the Commission for Protection of Competition is in huge debt not only to this sector. Has the Commission for the Protection of Competition for Fuels intervened? Three years of deafening himself to do a simple economic analysis of the fuel market and are not yet ready. Why should I be responsible for addressing the Commission for Protection of Competition? She has to keep track of the competition in this country and where there's a cartel, and he's seen from space this cartel in taxi transport, go and break it down. Having vicious practices of concluding contracts, of ensnaring as fortified peasants of taxi drivers to go and break them, punish them, but not we bring lobbying laws here. Lobby Laws What will this lobbying Law do for you? Is that gonna help you with the election? Are you going to support your campaign? Sorry, that's so naive! Look at me and smile at me. It's so naive...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u75	We beat you in the last election anyway.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u76	...they'll throw something at you and they'll lie to you, but the price will pay people. With full consciousness today, I am telling you: this is no law on local taxes and fees. This is a lobbying law allowing the vicious practice of third parties to be able to carry out a taxi activity on behalf of the carrier. Please vote against it very much. I do not address the colleagues from GERB the commitment is taken, but ABB, the Bulgarian Center of Democracy. [[the President signaled that time had run out.]] , vote Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u77	Colleagues, this is where we will break the debate, as Minister Moskov is in the Chamber. On Mr. Mikov's suggestion, he will explain the situation in... Before that, a procedure in the manner of conduct by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u78	Madam President, I'm doing a procedure in the manner of conduct. There's a debate on the bill going on right now. There's one more, two speeches and a vote. I thank Minister Moskov for responding so quickly to Mr. Mikov's request, however, this is outrageous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u79	What exactly is outrageous?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u80	Mr. Mikov wants Mr. Moskov running, we all stop the debate to answer Mr. Moskov's questioning of Mr. Mikov. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] I think that's incorrect. [[Applause from AG to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u81	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, according to art. 62 of our Rules of Procedure: The members of the Council of Ministers shall be entitled to attend the meeting of the National Assembly. They can take the floor whenever they want it. The President of the National Assembly is obliged to give this word. Moreover, there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the moment. Mr. Moskov has respected the MPs and I think it is incorrect to keep him waiting for us to finish the debate, which we will, of course, finish after he shares with the people's representation facts about the current situation in the field of healthcare. You have the floor, Mr. Moskov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u82	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mikov has requested this procedure! I cannot stop myself in the way Madam President has formulated the reason for certain consents or disagreements in society. What I can do is one, I hope a tight report to inform the Members of the National Assembly of the extent of the implementation of the actions arising from the laws, i.e. the regulation on the financial situation of the system and the new opportunities that the system as qualities gives doctors and patients respectively. I'll try to be firm and specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u83	Mr. Secretary, you have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u84	Well, as far as you got, then, Madam President. First, I am reporting the extent of the implementation of the actions arising from the laws voted by the National Assembly............................................................................................................................................ The texts of the Health Insurance Act give rise to the need for the existence of an existing Framework Treaty from 1 April. As far as there is no signed framework contract between the National Health Insurance Fund and the Bulgarian Medical Association, on the basis of art. 54, para. Art. 9, Art. 59a, para. 6 of the Health Insurance Act, within the time limits laid down in the Health Insurance Act, the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund decided that the National Framework Contract for 2015 should be supplemented and amended in accordance with the changes in the current legislation and the new opportunities of the National Health Insurance Fund to finance activities. The legislation required for this NHIF decision, which was the Ministry's commitment, is seven in number. First, Regulation on the package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF, published and promulgated in the Official Journal on 29 March. Second, the Ordinance on preventive reviews and dispensation, published and promulgated in the State Gazette on 28 January. Third, Regulation on the criteria for the order of selection of health institutions of NHIF, published and promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union on 11 March. Fourth, the National Health Card adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers on 23 March. Fifthly, Ordinance on the exercise of the right of access to medical care, promulgated in the State Gazette on 22 March. Sixth, Ordinance No 49 on the main requirements to be met by the activities and internal order of hospital and DMCAD hospitals, adopted and promulgated in the Official Journal on 22 March. The seventh Ordinance resulting from the legal bases is the Regulation on the satisfaction of patients promulgated on 11 December 2015. That is, from a legal point of view, all the necessary acts in the domain of the Ministry of Health, first, regulating the activities of medical institutions and the necessary NHIF for the conclusion of contracts, are adopted and promulgated. So much for the legal part and the concerns in society that there is a legal disorder or there is a legal gap. I repeat, each of the regulations, the next of which decision of supervision of the Casa in implementation of the Law on Medical Institutions, are already a fact. A few words, or a little more than a few words, about the financial framework, that is, the financial parameters of the system. I'll talk in numbers. In comparison with the implementation of the budget of the NHIF for 2015, that is not the planned but the actual and paid by the Cashier and the values set out in the Decision of the Supervisory Board of the Cashier yesterday. I will only talk about the period until the end of this year, i.e. until November this year, as per the budgetary procedure, but in the Decision of the Casa, which concerns the entire period of extension of the Framework Treaty 2015, i.e. from April 2016 to April 2017. All these parameters are taken into account in the three-year financial forecast of the Ministry of Finance and respectively as part of the revenue and expenditure of the Casa. On basic feathers for primary outpatient medical care, that is, personal doctors. Implementation of the 2015 budget The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the 17,000. lv.; value for 2016 from April to November Two hundred and eighty-eight Implementation of the SRM 2015 budget This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. 234 thousand.; Resolution of the Cashier. 211 million 297 thousand. April to November 2016. Clear increase. Medico-diagnostic activities - 72 million The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Five hundred thousand. for 2016 from April to November. Hospital medical assistance, execution. 1 billion. 523. Cashier's decision from April to November this year 568 or 45 million more, respectively, for hospital care. Totally from April to November over 70 million more bets such as, first, real revenues and, second, real possibility of paying off the Cashier. For primary outpatient medical care, according to the National Health Strategy adopted by you, for prioritizing medical care in the field of children's healthcare and prevention have increased the volumes of activities of preventive medical examinations of children's health by 158 thousand reviews for the period of action of the National Framework Contract for payment from budget for 2016, that is to say again the months of April "November." The prices of the activities of April 2016 are increased as follows: - for the preventive examinations of persons up to one year from 9 to 10 BGN, for all other age groups from 8 to 9 BGN. The increase in funds as a result of this priority is 2 million from the Cashier in primary medical care. Nine hundred and - to ensure the volume and scope of the dispensary examinations carried out by general practitioners to cardiovascular patients.................................................................................................. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. $800,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • - maintaining the volumes reported in 2015 for the other activities, i.e. there is no decrease in volumes, there is no decrease in prices for all other activities in primary outpatient medical care, with the total annual value of the proposed volumes and primary and outpatient medical care prices being 193 million. Two hundred and eighty-eight thousand. or additional comparisons with 2015. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal Two hundred and twenty-one - the specialized extra-hospital assistance, according to the National Health Strategy for Extra-Hospital Treatment Opportunities Extension, increases the volumes of primary and secondary examinations by more than half a million number of reviews respectively; - Visits on acute diseases for the period of action of the National Framework Treaty 2016 to November. The increase of funds as a result of this priority and once the cost of the Cassata, the second time the benefit for specialized outpatient assistance is 6 million. 969 thousand for the period April "November'; keeping the volumes reported in 2015 for the other activities and keeping the prices in force in 2015 and up to now for the other activities, once again I say that there is neither a reduction in volume nor a decrease in activity; - to reach unread volumes for 2015 but achieved as cash execution an additional amount of 3 million. 137 thousand or the total annual value of the proposed volumes for SRM is 211 thousand. 798 or the necessary value for the SIM is 10 million. 256 thousand. BGN, which is secured, guaranteed and entered in the Decision of the Cashier; - about medical-diagnostic activities - I repeat, I am only talking about the April budget - November, this can therefore be interpolated in order to be brief, and by April next year. According to again the National Health Strategy adopted by you to prioritize early diagnosis and subsequent follow-up of diseases leading most often to death, disability and disability increases the volume of IDA by a total of 3 million. 149 thousand. studies for the period of action of the NHIF 2016 paid by the budget of NHIF 2016. Months of activity.April "November" as follows: blood count at least eight indicated indicators by 400 thousand. number of studies; rate of sedimentation of red blood cells number of tests; sifting tests: prothrombin time 741 number of studies; chemical urinalysis Studies; urinary sediment.. 266 thousand studies; glucose suppl. 277 thousand 512 studies.. more than last year; blood sugar profile.. 111 thousand. 900; creatinine 875; urea 608, cholesterol; LDL-cholesterol; Patriots; Glycated Hemoglobin " 61 thousand." more exoduss; prostate-specific antigen, tumor study more studies; mammography of the two milk establishments more research; magnetic resonance paid by the cassata, 3,000. 333 more tests. These are activities which obviously have a deficit set in the current way in which the Casa is paying, obviously covering additional needs of the population. These things, up until now, patients were paying out of their pocket, or when it comes to examining personal doctors or specialists, they were doing so without providing funding for this activity. For the increase in funds, for this priority, it amounts to 7 million. 86,000. I'm talking again about the April months of November. The volumes reported for 2015 for the other activities and the maintenance of the prices in force in 2015. The increase in funds for this purpose is 2 million. Twenty-eight thousand. The total annual value of the proposed volumes and prices for medical and diagnostic activities is 79 million. 559 thousand, or the necessary additional value, i.e. new additional money compared to those that the Cashier was able to pay, the research of patients in hospital care, is 9 million. 114,000. For hospital care. According to again the National Health Strategy, adopted by you and under government policy, for prioritizing medical care in the field of children's health, increased the prices of clinical pathways for treating children, as follows, the entire neonatology. [[Noise and lines.]] Madam President, because there's a hearing to be called, listen to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u85	There is no hearing, Minister, as there will be no possibility for questions... [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Just you to clarify, given the situation at the moment. You well said when the Ordinance was published and so on. With such details and details, with specific numbers, there is no way to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u86	Okay, then let's say that for all clinical pathways with a code of 7, respectively, the entire neonatology, the total amount of increase in funds, i.e. an increase in the prices of individual clinical pathways, is 3 million from April to November 2016. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Once again, this is in effect, once again "Every one of these actions is not self-inflicted, it is not for the satisfaction of any lobbyist interest, but is derived from the National Health Strategy, its priorities and the implementation of the health objectives. [[BSP LB.]] I don't know what it means, but you voted this strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u87	Why are you protesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u88	I really can't go into an argument with you, Mr. Mikov. And allow me, Madam President, not to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u89	No, you don't have such an opportunity, nor do you have the MPs. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Colleagues, please, no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u90	Let's say one more thing about funding. By my letter to the Supervisory Board of the Casa, respectively adjusted downward prices, values and volumes of clinical pathways compared to last year, again justifying with the National Health Strategy, with the concept of the Government for Health Reforms, I have motivated my request as Minister of Health and responsible for this policy to take my opinion into account and accordingly to return to the old volumes and to the old prices the values of these clinical pathways for a strange reason. In the framework of the contractual process between the Casa and the Medical Union, some arrangement has been reached, for which, notice, there is no protocol to reduce the value of clinical pathways in oncology by 60%. This, as a minister, is unacceptable to me. I thank the Cashier's Supervisory Board for complying with my opinion and returning these prices. Again, on the basis of what I have achieved, I say this not only as a minister, but on the basis of an agreement reached two days ago between the Ministry of Health and the Association of Oncologists, where is the signature of each head of a curative institution dealing with oncology, former CCCs, former dispensaries, hospitals, university, state and so on, where we have reached a clear agreement on prices and volumes and clearly written texts in the Casa's decision concerning the guarantee of complexity of cancer treatment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u91	Please navigate towards completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u92	We can talk a lot more about prices and volumes, but it is obvious that this decision of the Casa actually guarantees the financial parameters of stability of the system and gives really new opportunities for treating patients. Is that enough? Certainly not. But it is certainly a step in the right direction, both achieving the objectives set out in the National Health Strategy and as an additional opportunity, not 100%, of course, of 100% nothing can happen, but this is the trend. Let me remind you that when we are talking about one of the priorities of increasing the proportion of activities and financing of hospital aid, this majority and this administration have actually increased in the last two years the funding of hospital aid or outpatient assistance, if we have to be linguistically precise, by more than 56 million. BGN, which is close to 13% increase in the proportion of outpatient aid in the total amount of costs of the Cashier. To say a few additional things from the Cassata's decision, as a result of the amendments you have adopted to the Law and following the legislation of the Ministry actually receive the patients and are paid respectively to the medical institutions. First, from 1 April three absolutely new and so far non-paid activities have been introduced by NHIF activities, which I will now read. Long-term treatment and early rehabilitation provided for a ten-day course for 42,000 patients who experienced severe neurological conditions, severe abdominal and cardiological operations totaling 23.4 million. BGN, which is an additional resource, which the Cashier imports. So far, patients after such acute diseases had to look in their own way, with their own funding or somewhere thanks to the good will of hospitals and the possibility to go through this early rehabilitation and continued treatment. Radio-surgery and radiation therapy. That's really new I can tell you. Thanks to the financial ministry's report of revenue agencies, i.e. good work, good collection and good revenue... Cashier's resource... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. We have the opportunity to ensure that we also separate the priorities that I have talked about so far, an additional 12 million. lv. Outside the estimates, i.e. as overexecution of the cashier's income, 12 million. lv. for radiation therapy and radio surgery, which guarantees the Bulgarian patients that no Bulgarian patient who needs, God forbid, from radiation therapy and radio surgery will be on the waiting list or will not be delayed in time for financial reasons. I mean, all capacity. [[Applause from BSP LB for closing speech]] The equipment in which, at four years of age, not in the efforts of an administration was...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u93	Colleagues, it's strange the behavior of your group! You asked the Minister to come! [[BSP LB.]] We don't have a debate procedure. There's no such procedure! I beg you very much for order in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u94	We called him for one thing and he came for another!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u95	Please focus on completion, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u96	I'm coming, Madam President. So far, radiation therapy, well, radio surgery has been the subject of not just that the Bulgarians had to go abroad. It was the subject of having to go abroad and pay for it from their pockets because the Bulgarian state lied to them that we had these opportunities. We had minimal ones and the capacity of this equipment both morally and physically, and as a kind of technique was extremely outdated. With the program, again, I say to not a single administration, we have a huge capacity for radiation therapy and radio surgery, satisfying 100%, and now we can ensure that the capacity of this equipment can be fully loaded as well, because the Cashier has the funding provided. The complex treatment of cancer patients is something that I say, again, with the Association of Oncologists we have complete understanding, it is laid down in the decision of the Cassata, i.e., the sick will not be a football with written documents between one and another a medical establishment that has no contract with each other, and the outpatient procedure that the Casa finances for the first time is once again linked to the preparation of a treatment plan, with place, time and clear steps of this treatment, as medical science requires.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u98	I'm coming. Two sentences. In the Access Regulation, we removed the possibility of additional payment from the patient of activities covered by the NHIF. We also removed the possibility during your course or your close course of treatment to express your will as a donor. The other thing we removed, which was, by the way, something that, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Mikov put up, for which he will probably be pleased, is the possibility that children's chaperones by 7 years and disabled people's chaperones will pay as escorts in hospitals. I can talk much more, Madam President, but thank you for your opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for having responded to the invitation of the MPs. Colleagues, we are continuing with the debate on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Are there any MPs who want it? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! I will, of course, focus your attention on the interests of the Bulgarian state and the payment of taxes. We have made an extremely accurate account, consulting with industry representatives, with colleagues from committees from different parliamentary groups, and I would like to tell you that we are talking about at least 100 million. BGN, which do not enter as VAT in the Bulgarian budget for years. Dear colleagues, you remember that you did not find 19 million. lv. for the mothers. You know that there is an acute financial shortage to maintain the Bulgarian defence at the necessary level in these difficult conditions. We are short on money for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The entire annual budget, colleagues, is 70 million. lv.! So with this acute lack of financial resources to give up between 100 and 200 million secure VAT coming into the budget, it is a national crime, as this money is currently not being collected and not being collected for the following technical reason, I want to explain to you. You know, companies that have an annual turnover of up to 50,000. BGN, do not register according to VAT, do not pay VAT. Here, my colleague, Grozdan Karadjov, showed me notes that said:.20% VAT. Dear colleagues, they do not pay any VAT, although you get this note! When they approach 50 000 leva, they register a new company or transfer to another person and nothing enters the Bulgarian state. It is not true that this so-called "alternative tax' will benefit the treasury. Let's tell taxi drivers who feed families that to everything they pay at the time of the leasing company will have to pay up to 1000 BGN extra. Extra. So it's about 23,000 cars. We made the most pessimistic version of the average daily turnover of 50 And you get a no-show in the treasury at 100 million. Ask the experts, they will tell you that this annual and daily turnover is at least 100 BGN. in a light car on average, in Sofia more than 1000 BGN. per day in three-dimensional mode of operation. So the amount not included in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria is at least 100 million. lv. Realistically, it is between 150 and 200 million. lv. So when you vote today, bear in mind when you press the button on what you do, do you borrow the Bulgarian state of 150 million. lv. VAT in the budget and they go into the pocket of the so-called carriers who are not any carriers? In our Budget and Finance Committee, it became clear that one of the Sofia companies, colleagues, has 900, nearly 1,000 cars, of which four cars are actually carriers, and the others are transferred to known and unknown drivers who do not pay any taxes. So I conclude with this: I invite you to vote in the interests of the Bulgarian State not to support this Law, to ask for a period between first and second reading, as also the colleague Menda Stoyanova explained to you about this.. she also spoke about a future law, as there is a time of inconvenience to comment on what was proposed. In conclusion, I'd like to tell you something curious. We have learned from representatives of the ruling majority that certain people in Dragalevtsi have received promises, whether they have already received them, about 500 thousand cards for the first spring. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u101	Mr. Gechev's line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u102	On behalf of a parliamentary group!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u103	Let's finish the line procedure. There aren't any. You want the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u104	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We just heard a statement from the Minister of Health, which absolutely adequately reflects the state of the healthcare system. [[Laughter at BSP LB.]] Absolutely accurate misunderstanding of the problems, chaos and millions of Bulgarian citizens wandering between the individual health institutions. The same minister from the government issued two days ago an order by which he ordered medical institutions, whether private or public, to make schedules and to review. This shows once again that in healthcare in Bulgaria the situation becomes military. Maybe we should start mobilizing doctors, nurses, paramedics. All this is obviously about a Prime Minister's statement some time ago that we are at war. But this war, which today's government has declared, is a war against them by the Bulgarian citizens; a war in which they will make the main sacrifices. We therefore call on the Prime Minister to address the health problems directly as responsible for the executive power. We can't today a few hours ago, after we requested a hearing with the minister, and the state doctors announced that they were going to protest. There is no way for commercial companies to comply with the Minister's order without being paid because these same executives will fail the commercial companies and then they will have to be responsible for it. It's really a military situation. It is indeed the war of the government against the Bulgarian citizens. We call on the Prime Minister and the ruling majority to end this war against the health and life of Bulgarian citizens, which is now being fought in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u105	Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u106	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the deadline for submission of proposals between first and second readings regarding the bill adopted at first reading amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 654-01-24, with two more weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u107	Is there a reverse opinion, colleagues? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 125 MPs: for 123, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Any other MPs for a statement? Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u108	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, first of all, I would like to ask that in my speech you do not seek any policy.. there is no position of governors, of opposition and so on. In principle, I have an opinion that is my own from the point of view that I have, although modest claims, at least a little bit of understanding of transport and of this industry. There's no politics! After all, I and my colleague Valkov, in October, submitted the Bill, which was due to enter into force on 1 April. Then, as now, I am convinced that the changes made were the right ones, both in the interests of the industry and in the interests of the citizens. Our decision has been provoked by a number of cases and incidents that have occurred in recent years. I'm going to give you a simple example, because I guess the subject is quite complicated or different for most of you. In 2013 a taxi car of a large taxi company crashed into a stop on Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose." There are 20 people at the bus stop. I hope it wasn't their fault they waited at the bus stop. There's a lot of people who have been hurt 12-13, and they've even been killed. The cause is doubting the technical malfunction and the high amount of alcohol in the driver's blood. The punishment is the driver of the taxi vehicle under the Road Traffic Act. No one else! Even recently it is popular to talk about the Law on Road Traffic, no other sanction! Analog example in the same year or year earlier. A bus of a large Burgas company is making a car accident on the Highway. People die, people get hurt. The driver is responsible for this is clear, both criminal and procedural. But what's the difference? The carrier, who is the holder and owner of the licence of that bus, is immediately sanctioned by revocation of the licence. The technical competent person who has allowed the vehicle to depart on the road shall be held liable. These are two similar examples from which each of you can draw the conclusions of who in the chain bears the responsibility........................... only the driver or the one who should control it? Did the driver of this taxi need to be tested for alcohol, as required by the law, and did the car not need to undergo a technical examination, as required by the law? Who's the organ that needs to control it? This is the licence holder, this is the licence owner who legally has to carry out the reviews before the change starts. That's the difference. I'm giving you two similar cases to see how responsibility is distributed. That is why in October I was invited to a studio on the morning block of national television. I promise you that this may be the last time I speak to the media and here from this tribune on this subject, I take it as a commitment, but I was obliged for the people who were watching and listening to us, to take the floor. Then the hosts asked me if my colleagues and I would be able to deal with the strong lobby that taxi carriers in parliament have. I made a commitment that we would really have the will and the powers to deal with it. We kind of got him, like, three, four, five months. To those who made a promise then, I'll say I'm sorry. I couldn't keep up with the pressure, the cab carrier lobby. To apologize to all foreign citizens, who, traveling from Sofia airport to the central city, will be lied to in the accounts, their accounts will be inflated. I'm going to apologize to God and to other car drivers who have a technical malfunction or have used alcohol. I'm sorry. I'm gonna take this opportunity to do it from this tribune because I'm not gonna go around the media. Sorry, fellow citizens and guests of Bulgaria, I could not cope with the strong lobby of taxi carriers! Thank you. [[Loud applause from BSP LB and shouts "Bravo!" - single applause from the rest of the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u109	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Nikolai Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mihov, thank you for being so honest with us, although no matter what will result from this statement. I don't agree with just one feather each. I can't help but see political talk in it, as the parliament of Bulgaria is the most political body of the state. You were right: for all these cases there must be someone responsible and it must not be removed. I do not think that the parliamentary group is more like an address to all your colleagues in the GERB group, you should fall into the position of chung-zwang, i.e. make a move that you know is wrong. Think about your actions yourself, because what you suggested last year towards the end was good. Don't cancel now. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB and "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u111	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u112	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Mihov, there is an objection and gives reason for a reply only the first sentence of your speech that there will be no policy here in what you say. On the contrary, your speech was impressive with its frankness and I dare say, with my dignity. What does it mean, however, that you are opposed to a lobbying text against a behavior that protects lobbying and corporate interests through a political act?! This is another policy, i.e. two policies have met here. The one that you are expressing at the moment on this particular case, and the one that is worthy of being despised and denied. By agreeing to what you have said and calling on you not to be your last speech on this issue, I only replicate you in this part that there was no policy here. On the contrary, two political lines met for dignity and interest. I take your statement very seriously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u113	Third line? Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u114	Dear Mr. Mihov, I have a question for you. When I spoke with colleagues from GERB's group today and asked them what was the reason for this lobbying text, the answer I received was: "There are 500 000 reasons. The expression "there are 500 thousand reasons" means that someone has been paid 500 thousand leva. [[Laughter, excitement, shouts: "Eee!"]] I would like to ask Mr. Mihov: are you aware of corruption practices regarding the introduction of this lobbying text to Parliament's attention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u115	A hole, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u116	Madam President, honourable Members! I started my speech that I did not put any policy into it. As early as October, when we voted on the Law tabled by me and colleague Valkov, we warned that there is no policy in it. We have warned all parliamentary groups not to exercise themselves on the back of this Law and not to use the industry's possible discontent to bring about political goals. I know nothing less than what I said in my very speech. Nothing different! Once again, I declare a principled position of a person who has the pretences to understand little by little from this sector and from my long experience in the Transport Committee. Again: this will be my last speech on the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u117	Since there are more people who wish to speak, Mr. Ermenkov, Mrs. Stoyanova, interrupt until 12.05, then we continue the discussions. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u118	My fellow Members, please take your seats. We are continuing today's meeting. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov has the floor for speech. Here you are, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor as a matter of principle. I want to ask you: with what eyes will you now change your decision that we unanimously adopted last year? In what way, before yourself, before your conscience, looking at yourself in the mirror, will you explain this inconsistent behavior? Will the bloated pocket slightly lessen the shame you will see in the mirror? You are faced with a choice today. In the form of voting for something that is supposedly related to taxes, you will soon be convinced how you will light this business and how everything will be okay, you are forced to vote if tomorrow there will be taxi accidents on the streets, whether tomorrow drunk drivers will drive the taxis, whether tomorrow broken taxis will move on the streets! From your voice today depends on whether there will be order and safety in taxi transports, or Bulgaria will be famous for its most expensive transport from the airport to the center of Sofia, for foreigners somewhere around 100 BGN, which is a wonderful PR activity for Bulgaria! Today you are faced with the choice to support the life and health of the ordinary person who uses fees or to satisfy the demands of some who have a lot of money to pay and pay such a demand! Today, the vote will determine whether there are people in parliament who observe the oath, whether they are here, to defend the interests of the people, or whether they will respect the lobbying interests that currently exist in parliament and about which Mr. Mihov speaks. I call on you: do not be misled and the lie that something will change between first and second readings! On the contrary, between first and second reading you will open the opportunity to fill the purses of those who still doubt! Because, I repeat, this is about lobbying, on the one hand, and parliamentaryism, on the other! It's about consistency in the opinions we've had! Nothing has changed since last year so that you can change your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, from this platform you talked about lobbying, and will you be able to offer us evidence of this to hear the whole room and make it clear to absolutely everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u122	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, the answer to your question is as follows. Let us ask the representatives of the Executive Agency sitting in the last row: how many applications have been submitted to this day in implementation of the Law, which must enter the day after tomorrow? Ask them and they'll tell you there's probably one or two. What does that mean? It means that the entire industry knows that there is a group in parliament that will vote so that what should enter from April 1st does not enter! Here's one of your evidence!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u124	You guys just figured that out?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u125	The other evidence. I think Mr. Mihov said that when he came out on that stand, I wasn't the only one talking about lobbying. The best evidence that you will see is when we vote and you ask for the result by groups who voted how and then in the printout by name. Then it will clearly clarify who protects the interests of large companies, taxi lobbyists, and who has nevertheless set themselves the goal of protecting the lives, health and honour of both parliament and ordinary citizens! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, after all the lines, let us also make a speech so that we can join in the general tone. The interesting thing is that it is very weak activity of those who introduce these amendments. Understand colleagues, you want to change the Law you have adopted yourself. The whole room at the end of 2015 voted for these amendments because they were really good. At the moment, you want to cancel them. It turns out that on the basis of even what is written in the proposed First Reading Bill was changed to the Orlov Bridge by Minister Moskovski, who said what he would withdraw and what he would not withdraw. The other, we found out from the negotiators, and if we do a thorough analysis, there's a lot of holes. There are many problems in the sector itself, and I do not think that such a correction in local taxes and fees, including in the Final Provisions of the proposed Bill, would solve all problems. Understand that instead of solving the problem or looking even through fiscal policy for greater depth, we are going in a completely different and opposite direction to save income in the budget in terms of VAT. If it is indeed true that on 1 April, when the new provisions came into force, there were only two applications from two registration companies, this is quite serious ground for concern, as the companies themselves had at least five months to move on to this registration, but they did not. The question is, why didn't they do it? It comes to the idea that there is lobbying, and quite substantial in this bill. Understand that the taxi drivers who were the other day on the Orlov Bridge could not have fully explained what was written in the Bill, exactly what would happen to them, what would happen between first and second readings. It's very serious, and my concern is why is it being done now? The tax campaign with the laws that fill the budget goes from October to October. Why did you decide that in March you should submit such a bill? It is very clear to the Committee on Budget and Finance that this is usually happening at the end of the year. But no... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u128	Excuse me, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Dobrev, can you keep it down?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u129	Find out, and Mr. Kadiev said something substantial.... in 2006 the old regime was cancelled, and the new one is introduced, which is now. This regime has not produced better results, even on the contrary! Then the National Revenue Agency also came up with a positive opinion and wanted a change of regime. Why do you think the new regime will lead to better financial results? Why do you think that what you are preparing to accept now would be better for the Bulgarian citizen? Those are some of the questions. There were colleagues who had very much and well prepared themselves on the subject, spoke much more complex than I did. I will tell you that we will not support this thing, as we have not supported it in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that debates are being held on this issue after all. The bad thing is, if the colleagues followed closely this so-called "debate" that, first of all, there was no outline of the real problem where it started, why it started, when it started. The other, no one points to an alternative to solving problems. In other words, all those who pretend to agree that there is a problem, agree that the state is losing dozens, some have mentioned even hundreds of millions of untaxed taxes, but let's actually outline what the real picture is. First of all, it appears that the unspeakable ones do not know the so-called Regulation No H-18, namely the regulation on cash registers. In other words, it is interesting why none of them are focusing on this problem, that each charge is a commercial object. As such a commercial site it must be equipped with a cash register, and according to the same Regulation No H-18, this cash register must be online in direct contact with the National Revenue Agency. Why am I saying this? Because my colleague Karadzhov correctly addressed the problem of vicious practices. However, when this control is being carried out through the daily cash report, there are already mechanisms and ways for these vicious practices to create hollow companies to be transferred to citizens from marginal groups along with obligations to be crossed even in the bud. However, for years, since Decree No. N-18 was not from yesterday, not from that day, not from last year.......................... by memory.......I think it was from eight years ago..................................... I have to give you information that a huge part of the so-called "son zone" in Bulgaria is working with the so-called "parcomates" that play the role of cash registers, only notice that they do not have fiscal memory and are accidentally not related in such a connection according to this same Regulation. There are tens of millions of levs running out that would enter the municipal budgets. Here's another example like this. No one is saying, honourable Members, that just a few months ago we adopted the Insurance Code. Well, let's take a look at the mandatory insurance policy right now.................................................................................................... Was it difficult for any of you to formulate the question that the driver who drives this car should be, for example, with a contract of employment and to know that this car is insured, moving. Naturally, there is no one to say it, because it is easier to whirl some loud speeches, some populist speeches, but the truth is that at this moment about the conditions of Bulgaria the solution with the so-called "alternative tax" is still a solution. It is true that some of the texts were not well formulated in the previous part, but it is true that yesterday there was a Budget Committee, and I hope that Mrs. Stoyanova will confirm that all the representatives of these branch organizations were present and reached a consensus text which will be submitted at second reading. Isn't that right, Mrs. Stoyanova? That is, from now on, all debates become meaningless when a consensus has been reached. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? The line is Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u133	Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm coming up with a line to answer your question. In the Commission's report, I read all the branch organisations that were present and they were all involved in the debate. And they all agree with what we have set out to the Budget Committee as a concept of changes between first and second readings, namely changes that will guarantee and eliminate the fears of one of the negotiators. Moreover, I would like to tell you that even before the Budget Committee, I have personally spoken with Mr. Mikov, personally with Mr. Karadzhov, and the Commission and Mr. Svilenski. He, by the way, confirmed it from this tribune. They agree and support these changes that I will bring in and, of course, if they wish to support me, and they, between first and second readings, which will ensure that the fears that the monopoly is maintained, the fears that carriers will continue to enter into fictitious employment contracts, as Mr. Karadjov of this tribune said, will take on the workers of their labour contract money drivers and their insurance and will not bring them into the budget, as it happened and there are already condemned on this subject, and as it happens all the time, so I confirm that a lot of adjustments will be tabled between first and second reading, which will smooth out these fears and will ensure indeed that we make a much better law. But since I don't have time, in my speech, I will also answer you for Regulation N-18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u134	Any other lines? Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Bayraktarov, you said there was no alternative. On the contrary, there is an alternative and this is now the Act in force. [[Heckling]] That's right! And with regard to the previous line, I will not go into it, but it has practically outlined all the handicaps that have been mentioned here about this next bill, which is now to be voted on and accepted in plenary. Very extensive, very thorough and expert here is spoken by this tribune in terms of disability, the future damage that will result from the adoption of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? No. Here's your duplicate, Mr. Bayraktarov, and then Mr. Karadjov's personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I can only thank Mrs. Menda Stoyanova for confirming everything I said in my speech, and it is really important to reach consensus because I personally do not care which political power she is trying to extract political dividends when thousands of Bulgarian citizens will be affected by the fact that there is no well-functioning Law. I don't care about that. I thank Mrs. Stoyanova for being honest and once again confirmed what I said. As for my colleague Philip Popov's line, I didn't really understand what you replicated me into. [[Noise and lines.]] I didn't understand what your line was about, which once again shows that you are not looking for constructive behavior, but looking for creating tension in society, looking for the extraction of political dividends. Perhaps this is your right as a political formation, but, again, it is not good for the Bulgarian society, for the users of this kind of services and generally at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u138	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. You have the floor, Mr. Karadjov, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u139	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to pay my respects to the MP Mr. Bajraktarov and to clarify that when I addressed him in my previous speech as a journalist, I very much respected his quality and did it really only because of the motivation that, as a journalist, he, too, has raised topics which have subsequently been subject to investigations by the prosecution. That is why I would like to clarify this matter to you. Regarding what you are asking: at the moment, this is how things are built, that the State Car Inspection makes one registration. Eventually you have another registration in the municipality and you have an NRA. These three institutions don't talk to each other. The so-called "fiscal bonds" are illegal, that is, we should not be looking for tax collection in the direction of this proposed Bill. It should be sought in order to issue a regulation with which the cash registers, i.e. the taxis, should be legalized and these machines to be fiscalized with a direct online connection to the NRA. Then you won't be hiding income. Then the driver will not hide any income from the parent company and the companies themselves will not hide a turnover of over 600 million. So you don't see the forest from a tree. You don't see the forest of a single tree. You don't see 50 million VAT, and you see 3 million corporate tax. Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u140	Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there has indeed been a good debate today. Unfortunately, with few exceptions, the speakers were more with a statement in slogans, false claims from the type of a woman said in the hallway, who, if they are serious MPs, should send them to the relevant authorities "be the Commission for Protection of Competition," or the Prosecutor's Office, or other bodies. Moreover, this applies to former committee chairmen who directly concern this problem, and if this problem has been identified with facts, these authorities should have been referred to. Moreover, many problems have been outlined here, and these problems really exist. With this bill, we are trying to solve these problems. Maybe not all of them. You may need a second step further, but anyway this is a step in the right direction. Problem number one: this industry doesn't pay taxes! The facts were also presented when the bill was presented. Facts that I have spoken about from this platform have become clear in the Committee on Budget and Finance. And we are not only talking about the non-payment of corporate tax, as Mrs. Yordanova said and pointed out two figures: Burgas, Yambol and Sliven for one year 10 600 BGN. from the whole industry in Plovdiv 26 000. You know that's funny! This industry does not pay tax, does not pay corporate tax. He doesn't pay income tax. But I also want to tell you one more problem - a large part of this industry, unfortunately, does not contribute insurance. Mr. Karadjov here from this tribune said and gave an example for which I very much thank him, and I think he has no reason to ask for a personal explanation afterwards, because I do not concern him with this statement, Madam President, that there are very fictitious employees of employment contracts in large companies. 2014 - 2015 Plovdiv Prosecution and NAP-Plovdiv jointly conducted a large-scale inspection in this sector in Plovdiv. Two of the owners of the large shipping companies are already in prison for not paying particularly large amounts of taxes. The one for 1 million 800 thousand, the other for more than 2 million, and note: a large part of these taxes were not paid insurance to employees under their contract, drivers. The drivers themselves clearly and categorically in the course of the investigation said that every month they paid their carrier, their employer, as they were on a contract of employment, I would like you to remember it, the part of your contributions due, only that they did not go into the budget, but went into the pockets of the employer in question. Those are the facts. There were other facts that Mr. Mihov mentioned that there exist so-called "droppers." These dills cannot be identified for whom they work, on whose behalf, who their carrier is, who their leader is. Naturally, they do not import taxes and insurance, but they also do other violations for which they cannot bear the blame. I believe that these problems are a fact and that they will be removed with this Bill when it is adopted at second reading. What do I mean? This bill includes two parts. One part of it is taxation. There, in order to avoid this non-payment, because we are all unanimously aware that this industry does not pay taxes, is the introduction of an alternative tax, which will be in the revenue of the municipality and will be defined as an annual amount by the municipal council of the municipality concerned, within a range which we will adopt in this Law. In one of the speeches was the concern that there would be no equality between taxis in a larger and smaller city. Exactly with the specific decisions of the respective municipal council will be achieved this equality depending on how many taxis there are, how many customers, how large this city is. The municipal council will determine most precisely the amount of this alternative tax. Secondly, this alternative tax will be paid by carriers. Carriers are those who are registered as such in the Automobile Administration Agency. Carriers are those who apply for and are authorised by the mayor of the municipality concerned to carry out a taxi transport of certain cars within the territory of that municipality. It is they who will be obliged to pay the alternative tax, and notice before obtaining the authorisation from the municipality. Guaranteed this revenue will enter the municipality. And anyone who doesn't pay for it won't get permission. And if he works without permission, he'll be sanctioned. The question is by whom. We have several organs that are currently carrying out this check. First of all, it is an automobile administration with its relatively limited number of inspectors, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. In this Bill we will propose to extend the powers of the mayor of the municipality in order to be entitled with his inspectors, with his people to carry out control and to take away permits when he finds violations. Who is responsible for all these cases? The carrier! This bill, honourable Members, has a second part, which basically stirs up spirits. This is the part that is in the amendments to the Road Transport Act. According to current legislation...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u142	That's not in the Law, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u143	How could he not be here?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u144	Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u145	Please, no lines! Mr. Mikov, I'm going to give you a chance to replicate Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u146	This part of the Road Transport Bill attacks the text that drivers are given the opportunity to work on behalf of the carrier and at their own expense. In current legislation, any driver, driver, car owner who wants to carry out this activity can perform it in only two ways. The first way is that if he is registered as a carrier in the Automobile Administration, only that he must be a trader, he must meet a series of requirements introduced in the Law and in Decree No 34 of the Law to have technical persons who are responsible for whether the cars are fit, to have a number of other obligations which are a serious financial burden for ordinary drivers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there are not so many applications submitted to the The second way in which this activity can be carried out is hired under a contract of employment with the carrier concerned. We have a lot of cases. Shortly before that I gave you an example from Plovdiv how people pay everything to the carrier, but it does not go into the budget. Moreover, some of these drivers work with their own cars. They gave them to the carriers, and then this carrier has to hire him on an employment contract to drive his own car. Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we here in a market economy situation to limit business development?! And he can work! With the change being proposed, we give this driver the opportunity to a natural person who has a driver's certificate, and he must meet certain conditions for this certificate, be able, by his own car, to carry out a taxi transport without having to register as a carrier and make a ton of costs, hire people in his company and so on. And it's on behalf of the carrier and at its own expense. Moreover, in the Law, we will see that the relationship between this leader and the carrier is carried out solely by a written contract. Moreover, when the carrier is registered in the register of the automobile administration (s) with which it intends to carry out a taxi transport, it will have to register the names of all drivers with whom it has entered into a written contract (s) to work on its behalf and on its own account. This register of Automobile Administration will become public. When an inspector from the police from the Automobile Administration and from the municipality does a check over the Internet, he can easily check whether this car and this driver are registered in the public register of the Automobile Administration. One more step. Once this carrier has gone to the municipality to request authorisation to carry out this activity on the territory of the municipality, it now applies a list of vehicles with which it will carry out this activity. We will oblige it to put the names of the drivers with which it has signed a written contract. Moreover, in the specific permit, which we would like with a change in Regulation No 34, to be placed in a prominent place, next to the price dash of the taxi car, there should also be the driver's name if it works on behalf of the carrier and at its own expense. I believe that with all those things I have said to you, I will respond to your concerns and fears. This is the way. This is where the issue of the cash register was raised. I fully welcome Mr. Bayraktarov, who raised him. I think Mr. Gechev picked it up first. I believe that taxis should be with fiscal devices and, like all others, they should be tied to the NRA. The problem is that at the moment these taxis, which are regulated by Decree No 34, do not have a technical possibility for such a connection. This means that our next step, ladies and gentlemen, which you are proposing, is precisely to ask for a change in the cash register so that they can have fiscal memory and connect with the NRA in order to control the turnover, as requested by colleagues on the left and colleagues on the right. Two words about insurance and liability. When a carrier is registered in a public register, who, ladies and gentlemen, makes the insurance of these cars? The carrier. Who is responsible if an accident occurs? The one who made the insurance, the carrier. That's the truth. All other suggestions that the purpose of this Law is to release carriers that continue to earn on the back of drivers, their customers and the back of the budget are not true! Or some of you deliberately don't tell truths, so I don't use a bad word and get scolded by Mrs. Chairman, or really didn't read, didn't listen, didn't want to get into the subject. [[Replications by MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs from BSP LB]] in order to find, Mr. Mikov, consensus and make a working law that will satisfy both carriers and drivers and fissure. However, the negotiators were only opposed to what was tabled and to what I am telling you that I will bring between first and second readings. This is not a constructive dialogue, it is not a solution to the problem. If today this National Assembly does not accept this bill, I can tell you what will happen [[noise, shouting and saying]] who will continue not to pay taxes as they have so far been used to. Moreover, some of them will be responsible for the insurance of workers under contract drivers, drivers, as they have done so far, regardless of their criminal liability. All this will not lead to a solution to these problems. So I'm asking you to be constructive. I ask you to look for a solution so that the problems are resolved, including if we need to take further steps [[noise, shouting and saying]] Not with the most general phrases, with the tossing of accusations... [[noise and lines]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u147	Colleagues, please be patient! We're in the way of the speaker speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u148	I'm very sorry that I'm long, but I think there were some pre-talkers who spoke a lot longer than I did.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u149	Just don't mention them all by name.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u150	Unlike me, however, they spoke in common! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u151	First line, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u152	They don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u153	Mr. Alexandrov has time, the attack group has time. [[Noise and lines.]] Take it easy, guys! First the lines, the back, I'll give you an opportunity for personal explanations. BSPs don't have time, they're gonna want procedures in the way they run. All demands will be met.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mrs. Stoyanova! First of all, what you said about cash registers is true, but it is subject to the Regulation. The regulation is a legislative act, that is to the Ministry, that is to the government. Secondly, you cannot say that if we do not adopt this Law today, from tomorrow we will support not collecting the money. First, this Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2017. The situation will be the same by the end of the budget year, unless you have decided to make changes to the State Budget Act, an update, as well as the other budgets. It was right as importers to come out and say things from the beginning. It's very nice to wait for everyone to come out and say things, and then go out and pour out some intentions for something future. What you have now recorded, including what the Minister of Transport explained to the taxi carriers, are two different things. When in October and November 2015 you voted, were you really sincere at that time to..... or when you now wish to make changes, to cancel what your group has proposed and what you have voted for? In which case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u155	Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u156	Mrs. Stoyanova, a very short line. I can't help it because you didn't mention anything very important. At the moment, taxi carriers are entitled to work in two ways on a contract of employment or as carriers. Mrs. Stoyanova, to the two companies whose bosses are currently in prison, as far as I know, all their drivers were under contract. I think this is a vicious practice, not a vicious practice, the alternative tax that we introduce on the one hand. On the second hand, Mrs. Stoyanova, it should be said that in Plovdiv are collected 750 thousand. lv. Until 2008, 26 thousand are currently being collected. lv. These are two extremely important things that should not be kept quiet and should be mentioned. With regard to the Minister's commitment, I would like to tell you that the Minister has not made a commitment. He said he'd talk to all the groups supporting the government. He didn't make a commitment to anyone. I was with him. I want to stop this speculation, too, because there should be no speculation and suggestion in this House to solve the problems of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u157	What were you doing there with him? [[Relation of lines between the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u158	Third line? There's no third line. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u159	I will respond to Mr. Alexandrov's reply what made me change my mind from October? Very simply, what was adopted in July and prolonged in October, tabled by colleagues and supported by the House, does not really solve the problem. An analysis I did for myself... [[Replying, shouting and noise.]] It won't solve it. Look, it is an appropriate measure for colleagues on the left, because so, market economy pastries to eat, but here we have a carrier, a company, a contract of employment and no other way to carry out your activities other than this. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts.]] Law on obligations and contracts, Commercial law, it doesn't matter, for this industry they won't apply. I feel that this is not right, and that is why I have reconsidered my own vote. Moreover, I have read all the negatives that are present and which have forced colleagues to submit this amendment in July and all of us to vote on it. These negatives will be reflected in the current Law and it will be guaranteed that they will not happen. The carrier will be liable to the end, the carrier will be a taxable person and will necessarily pay in advance. I believe that this is a good reason for each of you to reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u160	Any other MPs? It's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Gechev, if the procedure is not in the way of conduct and is essentially in the debate, I will take your word away from you. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u161	Madam President, I am a disciplined MP and I will tell you what this is about. It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, you allow at first reading the Law to discuss the dreams of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. It shares dreams of what the Law will look like at second reading, at fifth reading. There's no such thing in the world. When we look at first reading, we discuss this text, not Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's dreams. That's my problem. So let's go back to the text at first reading because it seems to me that this Law should not pass in this kind of.. he is lobbying, and some people will have to return postcards. Life is unfair. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u162	Mr. Gechev, your objection to the procedure is unfounded. If in the debate at first reading there is no stated intention of a proposal between first and second votes, there could be an approach and a procedure for simultaneous voting in one sitting could be sought at both first and second readings. Now, and at least I'm oriented that you won't be asking for such a procedure. Even if it is requested, I will not allow it after it has become clear that there will be proposals between first and second votes. Are there other MPs, or should we focus on closing the debate? [[National Representative Grozdan Karadjov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Mr. Karadjov, you want the floor for a personal explanation. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova praised you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u163	I didn't hurt him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u164	Colleagues, our Rules say: who is personally mentioned in speech, whether praised or not. You're in trouble, Mr. Karadjov. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u165	I want you to be careful, Madam President, who I've offended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u166	I've been very careful, Mrs. Stoyanova! Take it easy! The debate is going normally, we will vote on the Law calmly, Mrs. Stoyanova! We're listening, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I call for peace. Mrs. Stoyanova...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u168	That's not your job. You just say what you don't agree with.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u169	The vote will pass. Don't worry. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have offended me, first by misinterpreting my words and, second, misinterpreting my actions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u170	I didn't hurt him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u171	It became clear from the context that I, as President of the Commission, had not done my job. Mrs. Stoyanova, I did my job! The Commission unanimously voted twice when you had unanimity in your Commission, voted for the changes "Valkov-Mihov." That was the job done! What did you do in October? You gave me the lobbying text, fortunately, it couldn't pass. Now what? There's been a problem. Did you say then that this problem would solve it? For five months, how did you resolve this problem, so today you are telling me that between first and second reading there would be serious changes? What are these serious changes? Better get that text out of your system. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Regarding the wrong interpretation. Mrs. Stoyanova, it is not parliament's job to introduce the NRA's online connection to taxi cars. Since 2006, the executive has had a hundred times the time to introduce them, and then they would have polished the real speed, and not now to pass this with an excuse premature tax. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u172	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u173	Now I want a personal explanation that you insulted me for importing premature taxes. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u174	Colleagues, the debate is closed. There's a vote coming up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u175	And I can ask for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u176	You're right, Mr. Mikov, and you could have asked for a personal explanation, but I closed the debate. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees with importers Diana Yordanova and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 106, Against 41, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u177	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against because this Law is obviously lobbyist because this Law does not in any way protect the interest of Bulgarian citizens, including taxi drivers. On the contrary, it turns them into some fortified peasants to several large taxi companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u178	Second negative vote? I won't. For the procedure Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u179	Thank you, Madam President. I propose that the period under this bill be reduced to five days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u180	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am making a reverse motion that the period between the first and the second votes be extended to three weeks, as we have all witnessed...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u182	You have the possibility of a procedure to say whether you agree or not. In essence, you are making a second procedural proposal, which I will twice put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u183	I don't agree with the first proposal. I am making a second proposal in the context of a procedure, excuse me if I have violated the Rules of Procedure, extending the deadline to three weeks, as the forthcoming Law on Local Taxes and Fees is due to enter into force from 1 January 2017 and there is absolutely no problem that Members of the National Assembly have a maximum period of time to make their proposals so that the next discussion is actually fruitful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u184	I put to the vote the proposal to reduce the deadline to five days. This is Mr. Ivanov's proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 81, against 22, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. In this situation, you propose to extend it by three weeks. I am now voting on Mr. Svilenski's new proposal to extend the deadline to the maximum time allowed under the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u185	When was this proposal made?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u186	From the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u187	This vote is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u188	He can do it after that. Mr. Svilensky, in his reverse opinion, proposed an alternative deadline which I have now put to the vote. Vote 117 MPs: 34 against 41, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Next point two: Project for a solution for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University of Pleven. [[The National Representative Zhivko Martinov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u189	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u190	Before the reports, do the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u191	Madam President, honourable Members! Please extend the period between the first and second reading of the Law on Disaster Protection by another week.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u192	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposed extension of the Bill, which was mentioned by another week, that is, to make it two weeks. Vote 96 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 3. The proposal has been adopted and the deadline has therefore been extended. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose an extension of the time for submitting written proposals to the General Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, No 653-07-14, with the maximum period of three weeks, that is, a total of one month.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u194	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Just one explanation. In the previous bill, the situation is the same once it has been extended, it is now extended by another week until the maximum deadline. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the MP Rumen Hristov. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. This Bill has been extended to its possible maximum period, namely four weeks. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR THE FACTURE OF THE STRUCTURING IN THE STRUCTURING OF THE MEDICAL UNIVERSITY The bill is under No 602-03-3 and was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. The report of the Committee on Education and Science will introduce you to its President, the People's President Milena Damyanova. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education and Science, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Decision for the Opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the Structure of the Medical University of Pleven, No 602-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 23 March 2016, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Draft Decision for the Opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the Structure of the Medical University of Pleven. The meeting was attended by Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," prof. Slavcho Tomov Rector of Medical University Pleven, and Prof. Mr. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. On behalf of the importer, the draft decision was submitted by Prof. Nikolai Denkov. The proposal for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy shall be submitted on the basis of art. 9, para. 3, p. 2 in relation to Art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Higher Education Act and on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency project, according to Protocol No 10 of 2 April 2015 of the Accreditation Board. The Deputy Minister of Education stressed that with the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University Pleven, opportunities will be created for overcoming the established deficit of staff in the speciality "Farmation" in the districts of Northwestern and Central Bulgaria. In a written opinion on the Project for a Decision for the Opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy, the Management Board of the National Pharmacy Chamber has expressed its concerns about securing education in the specialty of the Faculty of Pharmacy with the required number of qualified lecturers. The discussion on the project included the MPs Borislav Velikov and Snezana Dukova. The Members of the National Assembly requested that the public need for the establishment of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the region be specified and that a sufficient number of lecturers are provided for the conduct of the training. The Rector of the Medical University of Pleven, Prof. Slavcho Tomov explained that in order to determine the need to open the Faculty of Pharmacy, a sociological study was conducted in 2014 with master-pharmacists, owners and managers of pharmacies in Northern Bulgaria and more than 55 percent of the respondents said that the discovery of such a unit was important for the development of pharmaceutical education and profession in the region. In the reasons of the project are formulated other socially significant goals and motives for discovering this main unit in the structure of the Medical University of Pleven, arguing with investment intentions of the pharmaceutical industry. For the needs of the Faculty, a whole new material and technical base has been built, which according to the recommendation of the Accreditation Board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency is equipped with specific equipment for several laboratories. Five departments are provided and the required number of habilitated and unhabilitated lecturers from pre-educated courses with the necessary qualification and professional training are provided for. In support of the draft decision for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy was also the statement of the Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union. Ilko Getov, who stressed that although only about one percent of pharmacists are looking for work abroad, there is a need for more such personnel in the country. In the course of the debates, a need to refine the draft decision with a view to bringing it into line with the provision of art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Higher Education and Protocol No 10 of 2 April 2015, of the Accreditation Board of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. After the discussion was concluded and a vote was held unanimously with 16 votes for the Education and Science Committee supported in principle proposals Draft for a decision and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it with the following wording: DECISION on the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the Structure of the Medical University of Pleven The National Assembly on the basis of art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 of the Law on Higher Education HAS DECIDED 1. He opened the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University of Pleven. 2. In the Faculty of Pharmacy is carried out training in the speciality of the regulated professions "Farmation" from the professional field of "Farmation" and the field of higher education..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u196	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Mr. Dobrev will introduce us to the Health Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Decision for the Opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the Structure of the Medical University of Pleven, No 602-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 17 March 2016, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Draft Decision for the Opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the Structure of the Medical University of Pleven, No 602-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Vanyo Sharkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health, Prof. Nikolay Denkov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science," prof. Dr. Slavcho Tomov, Rector of Medical University Pleven, representatives of word and patient organizations in the field of health. The project and the reasons for it were presented by Prof. Nikolay Denkov Deputy Minister of Education and Science. He informed the MPs that the proposal for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University of Pleven was made on the basis of a positive assessment by the National Evaluation Agency and the accreditation project. The project envisions training in the speciality of regulated professions in the Faculty of Higher Education 7. ?????????????????????????????????????????????? "Farmation" of the Master's degree. The designated capacity of the Faculty of Pharmacy is 300 students. The objectives and main motives for the establishment of the Faculty of Pharmacy at the Medical University of Pleven are in line with the national and regional strategic tasks for the development of healthcare and pharmaceutical care. A new material and technical base has been built and a sufficient number of lecturers are provided and five departments are provided for the implementation of the educational process. The members of the Health Commission united in their opinions and expressed support for the proposed draft decision. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u198	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Veliv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! I attended the meetings of both committees and took part. There, especially in our Committee on Education and Science, we have examined quite thoroughly all the prerequisites for the establishment of the fifth Faculty of Pharmacy in our country. The answers were convincing by both the Rector and Professor. Denkov and the other coworkers. Indeed, they have already created the material and technical base with regard to the building. It remains to be equipped with laboratories of physical chemistry, of common inorganic and organic, perhaps some special items - something to be done. Questions were asked related to securing with the scientific-learning potential what is most difficult in such cases. We've received convincing answers. What may have remained unspoken, and in the reports of our respected presidents, was that we are creating the fifth Faculty in our country, which, life and health, will in a few years lead to a master of pharmacists about 50 - 60 people per year. So, 50. 60 years old, leave our country or at least receive certificates from the Bulgarian pharmaceutical union. On this issue, we should perhaps consider, although not at the moment, so that we can not train, not educate graduates, including master pharmacists from a regulated profession, who then leave our country after we have invested in them and gone elsewhere. There should be enough conditions here and, of course, this should be fixed with perhaps some appropriate contractual obligations. So it will support the Reformation Block, probably all colleagues in this House, this Draft Resolution to create a new Faculty of Pharmacy. Let's wish the coworkers good luck there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u200	Thank you, dear Assoc. Gorgeous. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote a draft decision for the opening of the Faculty of Pharmacy in the structure of the Medical University of Pleven, No 602-03-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 March 2016. The draft decision was presented to you by the Chairman of the Educational Committee the National Representative Milena Damyanova from the parliamentary tribune. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The decision to open the Faculty of Pharmacy has been adopted. The next item on our agenda is: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE GENERAL AGREEMENT establishing the framework for the management and the conditions of the TURKEY MECHANISM in favour of the ENGINES AND THE PROCEEDING OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA TO HIS PAYING GRAPHIC. The number of the bill is 602-02-8 and was submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. With a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy, the President of the Commission will introduce you to the people's representative Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u201	Mr. Chairman, first of all, the procedure for admission to the hall of Deputy Minister of Finance Karina Karaivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u202	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 75 MPs: 70 against 1, abstention 4. Invite Deputy Minister Karaivanova for...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u203	And a second procedure, Mr. Chairman, to extend the time of today's meeting to acceptance of the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u204	A reverse opinion? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u205	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I suggest we take our time. If we see that such an extension is really necessary, let us continue the discussion tomorrow, because we have committees today. The first of them is the 2:30 Foreign Office. I suggest we don't push them and cancel them again, but we have a normal job. I don't see anything scary. If it's not enough time, let's move on tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u206	We vote on the proposal made by the National Representative Jemma Grozdanova to extend the working day until the adoption of point 3 of our Programme for Work until the vote on the point. As a matter of fact, until the vote of the dot. Vote 80 MPs: 65 against 7, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for the report, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule, No 602-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. At a meeting held on 23 March 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the above-mentioned bill. The reasons for the bill were presented by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Rumen Alexandrov and Deputy Minister of Finance Fezi Bekir. The objective of the mechanism is to coordinate and streamline actions financed by the European Union (EU) budget and the contribution on a bilateral basis by Member States so as to enhance the effectiveness and complementarity of support provided to refugees and host communities in Turkey. The funds under the mechanism are intended for emergency humanitarian aid, mainly for the provision of food, health services and education. They will be made available to Turkey under the relevant European programmes, mainly through humanitarian aid and the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance. The total amount of aid under the Facility is 3 billion. EUR of which 1 billion EUR will be financed by the EU budget and the remaining 2 billion. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. On 3 February 2016, the Permanent Representatives of the Member States of the European Union discussed and approved the so-called General Agreement, which lays down the principles of the management of the Mechanism and the conditions for granting Member States' contributions. Under Paragraph 40 of the General Agreement, it shall enter into force immediately and the European Commission shall enter into commitments for the contributions transferred by the Member States when the amount of contributions certificates notified to the Commission reaches a total amount of 1 billion. EUR or 31 March 2016, taking into account the earlier of the two dates. Pursuant to the General Agreement, each Member State should send to the European Commission by 31 March 2016. The certificate of contribution shall be signed by a representative of the Member State concerned and shall be binding on the Member State concerned to make the relevant payments. The signed certificate of contribution by the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule will be sent by a Bulgarian country after the entry into force of the Law on ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule. The contribution Bulgaria should make is 5 876 945,49 euros. It is calculated on the basis of the country's gross national income share in the total amount of EU gross national income. The payment schedule will start from the fourth quarter of 2016 with an allocation of the amounts for four years until 2019 in a ratio of 30:44:22:4. The funding of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria will be made from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the part designed to finance bilateral cooperation and humanitarian aid. The Agreement is subject to ratification by the Law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 7.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Angelova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule, No 602-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. At a regular meeting held on 24 March 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Facility for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule, No 602-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Alexandrov, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The mechanism for Turkey in favour of refugees was established by Decision of the European Commission No 9500 of 24 November Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The aim is to coordinate and streamline actions with relevant funding intended for emergency humanitarian aid, mainly for the provision of food, health services and education. On 3 February 2016, the Permanent Representatives of the Member States of the European Union discussed and approved the so-called General Agreement, setting out the principles of the management of the mechanism and the conditions for making contributions to the Member States. Pursuant to the General Agreement, each Member State should send to the European Commission by 31 March In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (2) of the Financial Regulation. The contribution certificate and attached to it an individual timetable for the submission of the national contribution for the period 2016 - 2019. The funding of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria should be made from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the part intended to finance bilateral cooperation and humanitarian assistance. Ratification is necessary on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 15....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will be presented to you by its President Svetlin Tanchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule, No 602-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. At a meeting held on 23 March 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Facility for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached schedule of payments submitted by the Council of Ministers. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mr. Rumen Alexandrov On the part of the Ministry of Finance in the discussion participated: Mr. Feizy Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance; Mrs. Marinela Petrova Director of the Economic and Financial Policy Department; Mrs. Iren Rusinova Head of the Department of Economic and Financial Policy and Ms. Nevena Gamizova, and Mrs. Daniela Shopova Senior experts in the same Directorate. I. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement approved by the Member States on 3 February 2016, as well as the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with its attached payment schedule. II. The mechanism for Turkey in favour of refugees was established by two decisions of the European Commission: Decision of the European Commission of 24 November 2015 on the coordination of the actions of the Union and of the Member States by means of a coordination mechanism for Turkey for the benefit of refugees and a Decision of the European Commission of 10 February 2016 on the Mechanism for Turkey for the benefit of refugees to amend Commission Decision C(2015) 9500 of 24 November 2015. The aim of this mechanism is to coordinate actions financed from the budget of the European Union and the Member States so as to enhance their effectiveness. These actions include meeting the immediate humanitarian needs of refugees and receiving communities, as well as supporting national and local authorities to address the consequences of the presence of refugees in Turkey. III. The total amount of aid under the Facility is 3 billion. EUR of which 1 billion EUR will be financed from the European Union budget and the remaining 2 billion. EUR - from contributions from the Member States. The General Agreement proposed for ratification, approved on 3 February 2016, by the Permanent Representatives of the Member States to the European Union, lays down the principles of the management of the Mechanism and the conditions for the allocation of contributions. Pursuant to the Agreement, each Member State should send to the European Commission by 31 March 2016. The contribution certificate and an individual timetable attached to it for the submission of the national contribution for the period 2016 - 2019 IV. Bulgaria's contribution was calculated on the basis of the country's gross national income and its share of the total gross national income of the European Union and amounted to EUR 5 876 945,49 (11 494 129,99 BGN.). The payment schedule starts from the fourth quarter of 2016 and the distribution of the amounts for the four years is in a ratio of 30:44:22:4. The funding of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria should be made from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the part designed to finance bilateral cooperation and humanitarian aid. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposes with 9 votes................................................................................................................ the National vote...............................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanchev. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. On behalf of the importers, Madam Deputy Prime Minister? Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you go, Mr. Angelov. After him, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u213	Mr. Chairman, Madam Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Patriotic Front, we say we will not support this agreement with the Republic of Turkey. This was also our position in the Committee on Foreign Policy, where I am a member. We believe that Turkey is a country that caused all the conflicts that led to this huge emigrant wave that flooded Europe, and Bulgaria included. We do not agree because of Turkey's strategic depth to finally pay the bill for immigrants and refugees. Moreover, in recent years, we have taken enough refugees who have passed through Bulgaria, and these costs have been covered by the Bulgarian state. We do not think that it is necessary for Bulgaria to allocate 11.5 million for a country where it rules a dictator! It is not clear to us the difference between Bashar Assad and Erdogan. It doesn't make any difference! Is there freedom of the media, is there opposition, is there human rights, is there rights of minorities?! I won't. What do we do now? Europe supports by 3 billion. Turkey's euro, which is run by a dictator! The other dictator is bad, and this one is good?! This is the hypocrisy of Europe. We believe that Europe should not squat on Turkey, but on the contrary: Europe should require Turkey to stop its intervention in other countries. Europe must insist on Turkey stopping the refugee flow and not directing it to Europe and European countries. In contrast, Europe must impose sanctions on the Republic of Turkey, because what has happened in Europe and Bulgaria in recent years is thanks to dictator Erdogan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u214	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin. After him the MPs Georgi Kuchukov, Velizar Enchev, Magdalena Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! I'll start with a more general comment. The National Assembly is systematically neglected, and its role is belittled by the government, specifically by the Prime Minister. In this case, thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for being here, but I think it was worth it on behalf of the importers to give us a few words. Neither in committees nor in the Chamber were we informed by what positions the Bulgarian government and specifically Prime Minister Boyko Borisov went to the meeting of the European Council in Brussels for a Council which is key and which, as we see, made important decisions. I'll talk to them a little later. Neither in the committees, nor here in the Chamber, the Prime Minister or the ministers concerned considered it necessary to inform us what the results of this European Council were, what decisions were taken and how the Bulgarian interest was protected. And there is no way, because the Bulgarian interest is not protected at all. After all, we could have been at least informed! I would like to remind you that our Rules allow a hearing of the Prime Minister with regard to his participation in European Council meetings, but he has never done so before. At the same time, the government is throwing us here for urgent ratification and I know why this haste is because the deadline is 31 March, an agreement which from our point of view is just a check for 12 million, which the Bulgarian state has to pay for the next three years without explaining what it is, why it is necessary, what problems it solves, why Bulgaria has an interest to give these funds! These answers you owe not only to us.. the MPs, not because we consider ourselves very important in this case, but because this clarification is necessary for the Bulgarian citizens we represent here. After all, they need to know where the funds you collect from their taxes go. Get to the point. Bulgaria's interest is in no way protected in the decisions of the European Council. Bulgaria is not present in the Council conclusions. No preventive action or measures are foreseen. There is no mechanism that could be immediately activated if the high risk to which we are exposed by refugee flows becomes a reality. In addition, in these conclusions, there is also no direct commitment of the Turkish state to Bulgaria. In fact, it can be said that Turkey has no commitment at all in relation to other routes of refugee flows, other than that relating to the passage of refugees from Turkish territory to Greece. I'll illustrate it so I don't have to be naked. In the European Council's conclusion on this issue, it should be the subject that our representatives there were supposed to protect, it says only the following: the European Council is watching with extreme vigilance for possible new routes for illegal migrants and calls for all necessary measures to be taken in this regard. A more harmless text with regard to Turkey and more senseless with regard to Bulgaria can hardly be found in such conclusions. Therefore, the claim that this quote in any way protected the Bulgarian interest in this, I think it is clear enough! Regarding Turkey's commitment, one thing is mentioned in the statement of the European Council and Turkey on 18 March following the European meeting. However, these are statements that have no practical legal value. Maybe they have some moral value. They say the following: Turkey will take all necessary measures to prevent the emergence of new maritime and land routes for illegal migration from Turkey to the European Union and to this end will cooperate with neighbouring countries and the European Union. Let's say that maybe here we can recognise Turkey's indirect commitment to Bulgaria, but along with this to stress that this statement has no legal value! A few words along the mechanism itself. Of course, we see a few weaknesses in the texts and in the way they are formulated. I do not know whether this is a matter of wording by those who have negotiated the texts or whether it is a result of translation. By the way, I'm surprised that once again, we're being handed out documents that are at the top of the translation company logo. I don't know if it works for this type of agreement, but the Council of Ministers or the respective Directorate should have its own translators. Perhaps the outsourcing of this service gives you a better quality, I don't know. I mention the question simply because it impresses me. At the moment, from the text provided to us, there is no clarity on how and how the use of these funds will be controlled. In committee, we were informed that the matter would be resolved once the Agreement was ratified. For us this is inconvenient because, when it comes to 3 billion, signing an agreement for 3 billion just like that and then looking for the forms under which the use of these funds will be controlled, it sounds a little frivolous to me! We also see some contradiction. Yes, it is right that, on the one hand, these funds are intended and given to the benefit of refugees. At the same time, funds are being made available to Turkey, the Turkish government. The mechanism provides that if Turkey does not use them correctly or does not properly fulfil its obligations, these funds can be stopped. Somehow, refugees find themselves entirely dependent on the correctness of the implementation of these commitments by the Turkish state. It seems to me that within these months, which have passed from the first Agreement of November 2015 to seek sufficiently flexible forms to ensure that the funds envisaged will still reach refugees. Although we do not suspect it, it is still possible that the Turkish state is not correct enough to fulfil its commitments. We also do not accept that the European Commission is given the right to veto decisions of the Steering Committee, as it will be established by this Agreement. Of course, it is underlined there that it is about strategic decisions, but it does not write anywhere and it does not specify what the strategic decisions of this Committee are. One explanation is that the European Commission is providing 1 billion of the funds, the member states are providing the remaining 2 billion. But to emphasise once again that this 1 billion is not the European Commission's.. these are funds that also come from the member states, because the Commission itself has no own funds. Finally, in t. 29 There is one wording: I do not know if we should go into these details, but still, which is quite vague. It states that, at the request of a Member State, the Steering Committee may discuss the suspension of funding and also allows for a variety of interpretations of what this could mean. There are also such non-clear wordings in other texts. I only pay attention to this one. The general impression that is being created is that somehow this Mechanism was created quickly to achieve something so that there are some solutions to try to reassure public opinion and try to do something about the difficult situation with refugees and their transition from Turkish to Greek territory. Let us put it this way, the European Council, as a whole, the European Union, after a series of fruitless meetings has come to something that, of course, is more than nothing. Some partial results will surely be achieved. However, we, at least as far as this Agreement is concerned, at this stage, are not ready to sign an empty check. Let this remain the responsibility of the government. And a recommendation for the future to try to rely more on parliament, to seek the national position and support of the national parliament, to formulate more clearly the Bulgarian demands, to formulate them in time. Along with trying on some issues to bind our agreement on such solutions to other, purely Bulgarian issues that remain unresolved for years now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u216	Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? Mr. Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vigenin, it makes an impression on something very important, which I'm sure other colleagues notice, but it has to be said. While Putin and Erdogan were on good terms, you didn't say a word about Turkey. You changed your attitude the moment this relationship got worse. It's obvious from everywhere. That's one. The second, it is good to reconcile your positions with what the BSP does in Bulgaria and what the PES does in Europe. It is good to see these things, because the behaviour of the PES in Europe, which is chaired by your former President, is quite different from what you are doing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u218	Second line? It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u219	Dear Mr. Atanasov, first of all, let me say that in the speech I made, I do not remember commenting in any way on Turkey in a negative way. I was talking about basically what Bulgaria has achieved. Secondly, unlike some of the other political forces represented here, there are no political Taliban members in the BSP. We form our positions on the basis of the Bulgarian national interest and not by who in which relations it is with. So to make suggestions that BSP changes positions depending on the global relations between some or other countries, at least I think it is not serious. You have the right to such an interpretation because it is your way of thinking and we cannot change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u220	The word for speech is Mr. Georgi Kuchukov. To prepare Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u221	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues! There is hardly anyone who doubts the importance of this Agreement, since we have been talking for several years now about the refugee wave, about the risks to Europe, about the risks to our country, and the recent events are very clearly showing and raising tensions among European countries in relation to these processes. In this sense, the agreement with Turkey was important, timely, perhaps even a little late and a certain guarantee to European countries, and not only from the European Union. This Agreement has been prepared for a very long time and therefore the beginning of negotiations has been held in one context, and the end of the negotiations takes place at a time when circumstances have been radically changed. That is, the end of the negotiations is when the fighting in Syria between different groups has been terminated. There is an agreement when the Islamian State loses a large part of its positions and territories. That is to say, the context in which the Agreement is currently being discussed is fundamentally different from that in which it was discussed. There are a number of positives in this Agreement. Firstly, it includes, and quite actively, a country... a member of the European Union, i.e. it includes the European Union as a whole. Secondly, it involves a country outside the European Union, including a number of obligations, which is Turkey. The third thing I would like to say is that this Agreement provides a solution for people. There is no longer a possibility for these refugees to be uninformed the way to solve their problems is clearly drawn. And in the end, everything about these migrants is placed in the field of law. There is already a way to legalize these processes, and there is also a way to reject this legalization. Regarding the negatives, there are also few. It is not clear which European countries agree to accept Syrian refugees who will be exchanged for those who pass through Greece and return to Turkey in order for this exchange to take place. There are indications that at least four European countries disagree with this. Secondly, how many refugees will be accepted? The contract says 72 grand. No one knows how many of those who have arrived in Europe are of Syrian origin and there will be no way to be returned, but what happens after the 72,000 people? Who will be returned to Turkey and Greece, and will the Agreement continue to operate? The third negative side that I see: a huge price is paid to Turkey and not only in financial terms. The hands of the government in Turkey are untied by giving them indulgence for everything they do inside the country, and not just in it. A vivid example of this is that after the conclusion of this Agreement, the Turkish government begins to keep track of what is being done there and what is being written about the ways inside Turkey. This shows that the government in Turkey feels in a very strong position and can hold the account of one of the most solid members of the European Union for what is going on. A concern is created that this Agreement unties her hands for action in northern Syria. Regarding Bulgaria and Bulgarian national interests. There is no mention of Bulgaria as an external border. In other words, what is applicable to Greece is not applicable to us. We do not have any mechanism in an emigrant stream to take advantage of this Agreement except the wishing texts which Mr Vigenin mentioned and there is no point in quoting them a second time. I suppose our negotiators have been under very strong pressure not to block the signing of the Agreement. I guess there were promises that couldn't have been part of this agreement, but I don't think they're warming us up with promises like Dad or Big Brother said he'd buy me a bike next time. With regard to the financial part. I don't think our payment is that substantial. I believe that Bulgaria is obliged to participate jointly in this process. It disturbs me and I think it should be corrected in the report of the Committee on Foreign Policy, where it is said that the total amount is 3 billion. Euros. The agreement says: "Initial amount of 3 billion euros. " You can check it in the Agreement. How much is the final amount... [[Noise and lines.]] There is no indication in the Agreement how many instalments. The Turkish state wanted 3 billion each year. This has not been formally agreed on for the two instalments. But even if there are two, it's not a total of 3 billion. The last thing I want to say about this agreement. The amount that is for Bulgaria comes from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the Feather of Bilateral Cooperation and humanitarian assistance. No one has given guarantees that these funds will help the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you know that due to a lack of funds, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is shutting down representations and embassies in countries that are quite attractive and quite important to us. I believe that this should be taken over one way or another by the state budget. I am not talking about controlling the money Turkey will use, because it is true that a large part of the refugee activities are state policy. 24 and 25 control of the use of funds are very common and nothing significant. In conclusion, I would say that the Agreement is very necessary, but in this way, I personally could not support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u222	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? I won't. Mrs. Grozdanova, procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u223	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention. In the next speeches that the MPs make, note that what we are discussing is actually the financial aspect of the Action Plan between the European Union and Turkey, which was adopted as early as November 2015. Today we do not vote or discuss, approve or disapprove of the conclusions of the European Council of 17 and 18 March, the so-called Agreement between the European Union and Turkey. Let's stick to the creature of the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u224	I think, Mrs. Grozdanova, that this is clear to all speakers who have motives. There it is very clearly written about what, which decision of the European Commission I recall Decision No 9500 of 24 November 2015. The word for speech is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u225	Madam President, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Immediately at the beginning of my speech, I disagree with Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova, as the decision of the European Council 10 days ago is directly linked, inseparable from the general agreement establishing a framework for managing the conditions for the mechanism for Turkey for the benefit of refugees. I am very sorry, but I think that in international relations, events should not be viewed in themselves, but it is a purely protocol to say it, two events, two solutions that are inseparable from each other. You cannot fail to say that we must in no way link between one and the other what the Council of Ministers adopted before the European Council's Decision on the Agreement with Turkey. On this occasion, I would like to say that I will vote against this Agreement because it is concluded with a country which is directly responsible for the events in Syria. It's the root of the problem. I do not agree with the first to speak from the stand, which put a sign of equality when talking about refugees and the refugee crisis, between Syrian President Bashar Assad and Turkish President Erdogan. It seems to me that everyone who supports this proposal gives a check for a modest amount for Bulgaria BGN, but at the same time he eliminated the responsibility of the Turkish side for the refugee crisis. Turkey is the one that, together with Saudi Arabia in regional terms, the Gulf countries, and, of course, not to forget global factors, the United States of America, Britain and other Western countries, have created the crisis in Syria, have unlocked this dam of Syrian refugees, and not only Syrian refugees, to the European Union. The deal that is now being concluded with Turkey and with this Agreement, and two weeks ago, honourable Members, is the most shameful treaty the European Union has ever concluded in its long history. And you know why? I'll tell you right away. The day the leaders of the European Union signed the Agreement with the Republic of Turkey, Turkish President Erdogan made one statement, for which the European Union necessarily had to cancel all agreements with the Republic of Turkey immediately. On that day, ten days ago, Erdogan said, I quote: "What is democracy, freedom, rule of law? For us Turks, these words no longer have any value. At that moment, the agreement with Turkey, which is directly responsible for the events in Syria and the refugee crisis, had to be ended. As you wrote, I would like to draw your attention to you from the right side of the Chamber, the Financial Times, on that day the European Union sold its soul. The closure of the border for refugees, as with this Agreement and with this money that we will pay, is guaranteed at least in words, does not mean anything, as the Agreement does not reduce the influx of refugees, but merely redirects this refugee wave to other countries. As the former Foreign Minister Vigenin has very well said, if you carefully read the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey, which, Mrs Grozdanova, is in direct connection with this Agreement, which you do not want to talk about, as Mr Vigenin said, if you go to point. 3 you will see that Bulgaria is not mentioned at all and it is said that Turkey will take all necessary measures to prevent the opening of new land and sea routes. There are no neighbouring countries of Turkey, no name Bulgaria. Do you remember that Prime Minister Boyko Borisov a few days ago, not to say hours before the meeting in Brussels, said he put an ultimatum that if Bulgaria is explicitly not mentioned in the Agreement between Turkey and the European Union, he would veto this Decision. Well, Bulgaria is not mentioned in this Decision of the European Union, and I ask myself why you in the Parliament, the ruling coalition, do not demand responsibility for the Prime Minister's words that he will veto if Bulgaria is not mentioned in any way? I therefore believe that we should not approve of this Agreement proposed by the Council of Ministers. Of course, it is a common decision of the European Council to give a signal to give an assessment of this vicious policy of the Turkish state in terms of its regional policy, of its responsibility for the outbreak of the civil war in Syria, so that we should not pay the Republic of Turkey, and Turkey should pay for its sins in the regional plan, the sins that caused a serious geopolitical crisis, because it will receive, according to this Agreement, a total of two instalments of 6 billion euros, instead of paying for what it caused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u226	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. To speak, Mrs. Tasheva has the word. To prepare Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u227	Madam President, colleagues! The Ataka Party is strongly opposed to the ratification of this Faustovian deal, agreed contrary to the overrated principles of transparency and democracy that we read about in the treaties for the European Union. It was agreed in the dark during the three visits of Angela Merkel to Turkey from October to early February. And it is not really about ending the flow of these Islamic masses, which are, of course, not refugees. Let's talk professionally. They are not refugees and do not come from Syria or from Iraq, they come from the jihadist camps in Turkey with their families. That's been known for a long time. We can see what they're doing in European capitals now. I am referring to the recent attacks during the Catholic Passion Week in Brussels. So, in order for such an agreement to come into force in order to deceive over 500 million European citizens, Turkey is being made huge concessions absolutely unfairly. It is both politically and economically unfounded for Bulgaria to give a single euro to a regime that caused Syria's destruction. Let me remind you that we are parading with accelerated membership negotiations a dictatorial regime that promotes and is not ashamed to announce its neo-Osmanian ambitions; who has occupied 37% of the territory of the island of Cyprus; who does not recognise the Republic of Cyprus, which is a Member State of the European Union in which Turkey should enter; who bombards Iraq periodically; who bombards Syria periodically; who bombards his own people in Anatola on a regular basis We're going to give this monster 3 billion a day. Euros. Why? To stay in power? The previous speakers rightly said that there is not a single word legally binding on Turkey in the so-called Agreement. There are no guarantees that Turkey will stop sending and Turkish services will stop directing these Islamic masses through Bulgaria and Greece to Europe. Yes, the Western commentators who read the Agreement say that this is an agreement creating the Berlin-Atina-Ankara axis. Greece will be saved, but Turkey will have to make efforts not to find new routes. One type of Turkey will pretend to make efforts, that it is trying to divert the flows through Bulgaria. The very fact that Bulgaria's name has been omitted in this Agreement means that this Agreement has been concluded to the detriment of the Bulgarian national interests and at the expense of Bulgaria. We call on you: do not ratify this Agreement! At any given moment, Turkish troops could once again invade Syria, as exactly a year ago, March 2015, Turkish troops, Turkish commandos, dressed as Turkmen and Syrian rebels, took over the city of Idlib, just as Turkish commandos, attracted as Turkmen, shot down Russian aircraft SW-24 on 24 November last year. This war may never end, as Erdogan receives continuous financial injections and political concessions from a self-forgotten geopolitical opportunist, and as Victor Orban says in such cases, so as not to be accused of insulting her, I will not tell you which country the Brandenburg Gate is in. This is not the way to negotiate agreements. Bulgaria is falling victim to the agreements of the secret, vulgar, undemocratic, anti-European agreements of Angela Merkel with the neo-o-manist Erdogan. Vote against, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u228	- What's the line? I won't. To make a statement, there is a Mr. Zelenogorski. After him is Mr. Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u229	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! It is more than normal and let me say clearly at the outset that the Reformation bloc will support a decision of the National Assembly on ratification of the Agreement between the European Council and Turkey. I am truly amazed at this topic, which is obviously very important for Bulgaria and Europe, to enter such debates with so many emotions. Let us tell the Bulgarian society clearly about this crisis and about the concept, which has been taken as a decision by the European Council, this is the most useful thing for Bulgaria. I couldn't even think what would happen if 300,000 refugees went through Bulgaria, which is quite possible if the Turkish government didn't act adequately. I say that it works more than adequately with regard to the European Union and Bulgaria in relation to this topic. I have always said that our national interest can be realised and realised through our membership in the European Union and NATO and through common solutions in such severe crises. It is obvious that this is a severe crisis, which we think every country can make for itself a decision that can be stable enough, organised and feasible is more than impossible. To think that even Turkey, a large country, can cope with 3 million migrants... Let's ask what this money is for. It is obvious what these people are going to feed for, to enable them to exist in these camps in a normal way, and God willing, when things calm down, I hope this happens relatively soon, these people instead of continuing their way to Europe, which means also to Bulgaria, to Germany and to Sweden, to return to where they were born where they want to continue their lives, but because of the war and the crises they could not do so at this time. There is really nothing better than to support the Agreement, which is obviously in favor of Bulgaria. I can boldly say that I feel no remorse for supporting this agreement. On the contrary, I believe that this is a national responsible decision and I would call on my fellow Members throughout the Chamber to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u230	Any lines to Mr. Zelenogorski? Here's your first line, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u231	Madam President, Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members! I do not know what can be called a document that protects the Bulgarian national interest, where Bulgaria is not mentioned at all! And the previous speakers said that we are an external border of the European Union. Our border with Turkey and the Black Sea coast are external borders. In this Agreement, Bulgaria is not mentioned at all in any form, in any sense. We are left behind by this document, but are being called upon to vote on it because we have to go together with all European countries, to have a joint policy. What joint policy when Bulgaria is not there?! This is just another sign that there our national interests are not protected and that our so-called partners are not interested in our national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u232	Second line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u233	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Senior Professor. Stanilov. Honestly, I do not know, but if we are part of the European Union, whether the explicit mention of Bulgaria is important or not. Perhaps if there is some specific detail. Yes, it could be mentioned, but otherwise we are part of the European Union, part of the common concept, of this common solution. However, let me remind you of something that perhaps someone has forgotten about a study by the European Commission showed that for the European Union, which means for Bulgaria, it is 10 times more expensive for these people to reach Central Europe, to be fed and to live there in such places as camps or specific names for such places than to be in Jordan, in Turkey, to be as close as possible to the places they have left. If this issue is not resolved in this way, it will probably be 10 times more expensive for the European Union, understand Bulgaria as well. Sitting there and being fed is worth 1,600 dollars, and staying in Austria or in Central Europe and being fed there is 10 times more expensive. The dollar. Then it would be more expensive for both the European Union and Bulgaria. Even from this financial side, this agreement is much more sensible and much more meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u234	To speak the word is Mr. Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The MRF Parliamentary Group will support the ratification of the I read it explicitly. The General Agreement for the creation of a framework. I repeat the "Ramka"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Colleagues, we have talked many times, and we have practically made sure that no country can cope with migration flow and pressure and cooperation here is essential. Before I further develop this thesis, I am in a hurry to close the formal, financial issue of the country and the commitment of Bulgaria. In the text before you stands: 3 billion. lv. The commitment is 1 billion from the budget of the European Union and 2 billion are from additional contributions from the Member States, and the Bulgarian contribution, note, colleagues, is only 5 million. Eight hundred and seventy-six thousand. euros for four years. In particular, these are 0.2% of the contribution I repeat, so that there is no error: 2 per thousand of the total contribution. And if anyone is worried that spending these funds is not guaranteed, on the contrary! The agreement has plenty of guarantees. Payments shall be made as scheduled. Other than that, t. 29 provides, at the request of a Member State, that the Steering Committee discusses suspension of funding if there is any problem. However, the political side is more important. Here the key words are cooperation and good neighbourliness. I am asking you a rhetorical question because this is the alternative thesis: can fences, colleagues, stop migrants and migratory pressure? Give me a positive example! I'll give you the opposite example, not to mention sides, so we don't insult someone from a diplomatic point of view. In the Middle East, there's a three-foot high tech fence on one side. I won't mention her. Do you know how many people she stopped? None. A little further away there is a border facility of 930 km, notice about which after two years of operation they find that migration pressure has decreased very little, but as a result not of the facility, but of the deterioration of the economic situation of the country where migrants are headed. Colleagues, only the cooperation of authorities, offices, institutions and countries can make the process truly manageable. Here I am also surprised that someone is looking for Bulgaria. Colleagues, Bulgaria is listed in the Agreement. You will recognize her in the words of the European Union. I am surprised that the Bulgarian interest is not protected when we talk about an Agreement covering the two largest neighbours of the Republic of Bulgaria. What, we really want to find out if the saying is true? When the neighbor's house is burning down, your house can also be set on fire, right? Yes, you do. This is where the Movement for Rights and Freedoms wants to express its regret that the other Western Balkan countries are not members of the European Union, because this would have made the process even more manageable. Thank you. I call you to reason. The interest of our neighbors is also our interest. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u236	Any lines to Mr. Anastasov? I won't. He has the word Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u237	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will try to be as brief as possible. This is a subject that requires our extreme attention, and for this reason I think that we should examine it in cold blood, in substance and in its objectivity. This tribune has said several things that are not so true, or are partly true, and they are distorting the focus of what we are commenting on right now. We are now discussing the financial agreement. Colleagues, it's not with Turkey, it's for Turkey. It is between the European Commission and the Member States. That is, we have the instrument that determines what the amount of funding is, how much it will be, how much it will be translated. Until now, the first tranche of 3 billion has been agreed since last November, and the second one has not been mentioned in the formal agreement. Whether it takes place or not, this is to be understood subsequently. With regard to the Agreement, which already has the Turkish side, it is also not an official fact. For him, we have a conclusion, but we do not have a final signed document. Opinions, opinions are given, but from this platform to express the opinion that this is already an act that is being implemented is not true. If one or another political force wants in any way to speculate with the topic in favor of its own party policy... this one. When we talk about the common political position of the European Union, this is something else entirely. When we talk about the financial agreement on which I call for us to concentrate, the money is provided only for refugees in the territory of the Republic of Turkey. The mechanism on which they will be spent shall be determined by the European Commission and by the Member States. This money can't be spent on anything else at all. Everything back there is speculation, and it's just not true. Also, the essential debate should have been held by now. At the moment, we already have the resources we perform and in which we express our opinion, but this arrangement was made last year in November. Where were the honourable parties and MPs then to express their position? So to distort the debate in this way and distort its focus at the moment, I think it is untenable, because at the moment we have to deal in cold blood with what is happening. I join my fellow Member in saying that there is not a single country that can deal with the crisis on its own. We must all in unity, in agreement, face the problems faced by our common home, the European Union. Colleagues, I am calling you for really more responsibility in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u238	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Karakachanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u239	Mrs. President, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Clearly, the Patriotic Front won't support this thing. It is not about the amount of money or that only 50 of these refugees would come to Bulgaria. It's a matter of principle. Once again, we become accomplices in an absolutely inadequate policy of European leaders. The same European leaders who, precisely on the subject of illegal emigration, failed in general. I don't think I need to put the tape back in front of the whole room and say where they failed and what they did. Total failure! Change of policy in two or three months. What's going on? Once again, you get a double standard. We're talking about principles and ideas here. The European Union is supposed to be an entity based on some idea and on some principles. However, with regard to the European Union's policy towards the Republic of Turkey and the European Union's attitude on the issue of illegal immigration, there are double standards, a lack of any principles, a lack of any vision. Here's the big problem. What happens now? Who does the European Union want to reward, who does it support? Turkey. I agree we are neighbours, we must develop good relations, but let us look at the truth as it is. Turkey is the country, together with Saudi Arabia and Qatar, who made the war in Syria; Turkey is the country in whose territory the so-called 'good terrorists' were armed; Turkey is the country that was sending weapons and wanted to occupy part of the territory of a sovereign state. Aspropo, in fact Turkey supported the massacres of Christians in Syria, the destruction of historical monuments such as Palmira. I did not hear any European leader who now wants to talk to me about principle, to protect Christians in the Middle East, was the Copts in Egypt, when the Islamists who came after them after another spring, was the Christians who were slaughtered and blown up in their churches in Iraq, was now the destruction of Christians in Syria. Where is the morality of the so-called leaders of Europe, I stress, those who have failed on this issue? This is just another wrong move in this direction. Let us not forget that Erdogan is the man who trades with ISIS. Aren't all European leaders against ISIL supposedly proven from both the East and the West and the media and Turkish media and public figures themselves? Erdogan is trading with the Islamic State. The oil of the Islamic State is sold through Turkey and some money is obtained to cut heads with which the European capital of Brussels is detonated, with which attacks are being made in Paris. Is that what we support?! In fact, we say: you did what you did, and since now you're blackmailing us with two million dollars, we're ready to squat on you. We're ready to start with 3 billion, then more. His Prime Minister, Davutoglu, says: "Twenty billion. We're only talking about the first three now. He says: "We want an accelerated procedure for Turkey's membership in the European Union, we want a travel trip. Is this in the interests of the European Union or not? And instead of the European Union imposing a policy to force Turkey to comply with the elementary human norms, UN rules, because they are not obliged to comply with the rules of the European Union, but to international law -- not to interfere with the internal affairs of other countries. They do it not only with regard to the Middle East countries, they also do it with regard to the Balkan countries, including Bulgaria. To also raise the question of the integrity of borders, what are the claims of the so-called Buffer Zone in Northern Syria? Another principle of human rights. Thousands of Kurds are being killed and European leaders tell me that everything was normal in Turkey. Journalists are arrested, military arrests, private media are occupied and government officials are put in charge, and we believe that this is normal and we want to give money to such a country. Is that what we're talking about, fellow Members?! We're talking about principles. Where are the principles? Otherwise, the account that out of these three billion we will give only five million and something yes, the money is not big. However, I do not know if the Bulgarian state has considered giving five leva to the Bulgarian communities abroad to support them culturally, educationally, morally, politically. However, we are prepared to give Erdogan five million. It's not about money, it's about principle. That's what we're talking about. Instead of Turkey being told that it will tolerate sanctions if it continues to intervene in the conflict in the Middle East and holds like a time bomb with which it is blackmailing Bulgaria or, more precisely, the European Union, we are ready to submit to blackmail. What is the future of the European Union then? That's what we're talking about. We all know that! I cannot understand why we are acting in this way, how can I say, at least irresponsible to European interests way, of course, and to Bulgarians. Here's the thing. That is precisely why I cannot vote for something like this, because this is another double standard that Brussels has offered us. I ask the other question: why, in order to solve the problem of illegal emigration, do we not ask ourselves how to solve not the investigation, i.e. the people who are fleeing, but how to solve the problem? Why the European Union did not change its policy and support those factors, the secular factors in the Middle East, which would strengthen stability in the region and which, when they existed in the Middle East, did not have similar waves of illegal immigrants. This is just another attempt to throw dust into the eyes of European citizens and to explain to them that we are concerned and will solve the problem. No, the problem will not be solved this way! This is precisely why both I and my colleagues from the Patriotic Front will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u240	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Stanimirov was the last to sign up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u241	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, dear Mrs Deputy Prime Minister! I share most of the things that have been said, skepticism about the decisions of March 17th. Today's decision that we have to make is not about the decisions of 17 March, but about an agreement from the beginning of February that has already been said several times. The support of this Agreement will be one of the good examples of continuity in Bulgarian foreign policy, because it protects the position Bulgaria has over the last three governments. I would like to remind you that since 2013. "From the previous government of Oresharski, then the caretaker government and now the current government, in the European Union have always defended the thesis that the place of refugees is not in Europe, but in countries that are adjacent to the conflict, from where they will be able to return to their homeland when the conflict is over. This has been our position for three years by three governments, I repeat. At first, many people in the European Union viewed this position as extreme and criticised us for not being human enough, not solidarity enough. The time has come when it turned out that we Bulgarians were right that these three governments were right when they defended this thesis that the place of refugees was in the neighbouring countries of conflict. This financial agreement, which we are about to vote on right now, is in fact setting out precisely this framework for us to take care of refugees in the neighbouring countries of the conflict so that they do not come to Bulgaria and Western Europe so that they can return to their homeland. This is politics, I think it fully corresponds to the Bulgarian national interest and was well protected over the last three years. Right now, we just need to confirm this with our own voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u242	To speak, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u243	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we must be aware once and for all what Bulgaria's national interest is in the refugee crisis................ do we want to contribute with our position on the quickest and painless possible, including Bulgaria, solving the refugee problem, or acting in infinite principle then when we get rid of us, pouring oil into the fire and continuing to work for the non-solving of the problems. Then, when 28 Member States have sat down and, together with the Republic of Turkey, have reached one option, a mechanism in which to limit the damage to the European Union as much as possible, to help the state directly adjacent to the conflict in Syria, in which more than three and a half million refugees currently reside, to really help it overcome the difficulties associated with their asylum, shelter, food and so on and so forth, we are going out here with some absolutely nude statements of principle, see who was guilty, who was not guilty. For me, Bulgaria must stand up for itself. Bulgaria is so small to give cardinal assessments of global geopolitical conflicts and to give justice and, from this point of view, to conduct some independent policy. I call for more pragmatism when it comes to a problem that is at our borders, which, if it is not resolved in one way or another, threatens to bring our country much more serious problems unsuspected. If only Turkey had not stopped, if you remember a large group of refugees had come to Adrianople and was ready to continue either to Bulgaria or to Greece, if then hard measures had not been taken to bring this group back, if the policy had not been serious and consistently directed towards limiting the refugee flow specifically to Bulgaria, today we would have been faced with very serious problems and no 5 million. $800,000. euros would not be enough to deal with what was hanging over our heads and which still hangs over us as a potential threat. From this point of view, we will support this Agreement not because we approve of this or that policy, not because we agree with those who are guilty and who is not for the Syrian conflict, but because we are convinced that this Agreement also protects the Bulgarian national interest to be as protected by a possible overhanging refugee or emigrant wave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u244	- What's the line? For the first line, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u245	Dear Mr. Kazak, you are a man who has dealt with international politics. Tell me where in the UN Charter this is the founding document on the relations between the countries in the world and the rules laid down by this world organization, there are small and large countries. The UN Charter has a subject of international law such as the State, where the rights of the entity on a territory or population basis are not defined. You should know that. Please, the Bulgarian Parliament should not set a bad example with the fact that it is led by one, I would say a misplaced Bulgarian proverb about the bowed head, sword does not cut it. You are proposing that we take into account an unscrupulous neighbor of ours. This is not normal. You say, 'Do you imagine what will happen?', so you yourself know very well that this can happen because it is part of the policy of this same Mr Erdogan. Let's not be scared with this. Bulgaria is subject to international law, an equal member of NATO, of the European Union, a member of the UN. There is international law, and if those like Mr Erdogan use blackmail instead of the principles of international law, they should be reprimanded and not encouraged. Finally, whatever you are talking about in the defence of Turkey right now, you will not like them any more, you know why they have just bet on someone else. Don't make them an unnecessary ichtibar, as they say, wouldn't appreciate it by dignity. It would be stronger if you care about the Bulgarian state and national interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u246	That's exactly what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u247	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u248	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Karakachanov! In international relations, besides international law, there are international realities. There are also Member States in the UN organisation for a reason, i.e. all countries are generally equal, have equal power, but there are certain countries that are slightly more equal than others, and they are those who are permanent members of the Security Council. Even in international law, reality is sometimes taken into account as some countries have some rights, others have more extended rights and opportunities to influence international relations. Again, I call on us to be more pragmatic and, as you rightly urged everyone to stand up for the Bulgarian national interest and not to engage in some misunderstood principle and to act as judges of global justice, who is wrong and who is right in geopolitical conflicts. I would like to remind you again that Bulgaria is in such a situation that here, indeed, if we are not in the forefront of the common efforts within the European Union to resolve an hour sooner and as painlessly as possible this crisis, we really risk and not five million, not fifty, five hundred million euros to separate from the budget, will still not be enough to deal with a possible refugee or emigrant wave if it goes through Bulgaria. As there is a statement, Bulgaria may have the luck or happiness of being poor enough, i.e. unattractive, unattractive for these refugees, to wish to stay longer, but still even if a transit wave goes through Bulgaria, it will create huge problems on our already barely-cracking economy. As to whether we want to like each other or not, someone outside Bulgaria. No, we in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have always wanted to defend the interests of our constituents, the Bulgarian citizens who vote for us and, of course, to defend the Bulgarian national interests, we do not care whether we like each other in this capital or that capital and we have never suffered from any other motive other than these. That's why we're here today, and we're not going to hit a cello in the rug to like this guy or that governor. Thank you. [[Private applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u249	The word is Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u250	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to remind you at the beginning that we are in the Bulgarian Parliament and not in the European Parliament. When we discuss things here, let us discuss them from the point of view of the Bulgarian Parliament, which is the parliament of a sovereign state, because if we did not, we did not need to ratify this Agreement. Most likely, in the mechanisms of the adoption of such an agreement and the envisaged ratification in it by the parliament of each state, the possibility of us, as a representative of a sovereign elected here, expressing our opinion and our concerns is certainly at stake. Because if we look at what we are about to ratify now, is there any use for it? Yes, there is certainly some benefit from it, which concerns that for the first time in the EU relationship Turkey is trying to impose some rules that regulate, regulate and somewhat calm the situation. But they are set in such a way that instead of creating solutions, they create problems, unfortunately. Problems national, I mean for Bulgaria. I will speak on behalf of Bulgaria, I will not speak on behalf of the European Union, on behalf of Turkey and on behalf of whether the European Union and Turkey are in good relations, how big they are and how small Bulgaria is. Bulgaria is just as big as its politicians. Bulgaria is just as big as its politicians can defend its interests! If they are small, Bulgaria is small, if they are small, and Bulgaria is small! [[Noise and lines.]] We are chosen here to protect the interests of Bulgaria. From this point of view, I would like to ask a few questions that are very interesting to me. Firstly, what will happen if the refugees leave, and the appropriate measures are taken not to go to Greece? Which way will they go? To Russia? [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] I'm asking! Armenia? Probably to Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They won't go to Syria, you can be sure. Secondly, I would like to ask, on the condition that we are talking about the so-called.. solidarity, that we are all part of a common home, that we are all protecting some interests: why is Bulgaria not a member of Schengen? What prevents the European Union from Bulgaria being a Schengen member and from being an external border with all the rights, with all the obligations, but also with all the financial opportunities? Why should the poorest Bulgarian people pay protection at the external border of the European Union without the possibility of this border being Schengen?! Where's the equality? What kind of solidarity are we talking about? I therefore ask you very much, before we talk about how important it is for the European Union and Turkey to agree, let us understand that we are not a silent letter that Bulgaria has just as much a full voice in the European Union as any other country, regardless of its population and that Turkey is not in the European Union. I do not mind having a regulation of relations, I do not mind this regulation being between the European Union and Turkey, but it must be equal to all countries, it must guarantee all countries neighbouring Turkey, members of the European Union, equal opportunities, equal protection of the border and equal financial conditions in order not to pass the flows through them. We are currently trying to protect Greece's interest. Yeah, okay, I agree. Let's protect him, but let's not forget that we have to protect our interests as well. Since this Agreement does not fully respond, I would like to emphasise the word "fullly" in our opinion of the interests of Bulgaria, we will not support it, we will not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u251	- What's the line? I won't. There are no other MPs... [[Replication by the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u252	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I want you to extend the group's working hours by five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u253	Working hours have extended it, and now the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u254	Yes, working hours are clear that it must be extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u255	Increase group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u256	Dear Members of Parliament, we are confronted by the signed Agreement with an unusual situation, which is that the National Assembly is required to comment, to ratify. This is in the order of things, of course, from the point of view of the procedure. A political document that relates to Bulgaria, which deals directly and indirectly with the security of the Bulgarian state, with the development of the political crisis in the Middle East and, on the other hand, we do not have our own, expressed position in the preparation of the document and one that is recorded in the specific texts of the document itself. It is not difficult to find this when looking at the statement made by the European Union and Turkey of 18 March 2016, as well as the conclusions of the European Council and also the remarks of the President of the European Council Donald Tusk after the meeting of the Heads of State or Government. Nowhere is Bulgaria mentioned in these texts, not mentioned and the dangers that could arise from unforeseen circumstances, around the development of the crisis not only with refugees, but also with the emergence of political tensions in the Balkans as a result of the relocation of large groups of people. The closure of the so-called "Balkan road" of refugees, or the construction of a fence at the mecedono-Greek border, was a result of the efforts of the Visegrad Four, and then entered into the Agreement between the European Union and Turkey as a result. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the changes in the document itself, which were promised to us by the Bulgarian government, and after the Prime Minister said that changes will be made in the document that concern the interests of Bulgaria, cannot be found in this document. As it is said everywhere that the European Union, especially in the conclusions of the European Council, is said that the European Council will monitor with extreme vigilance the emergence of new routes for illegal migrants. There are no commitments of the Republic of Turkey on this issue. What does it mean for the European Council to be vigilant about the emergence of new routes? You can imagine what a gigantic commitment that is. I would like to draw attention to some other moments of the Agreement. As early as 18 March, before our vote, the application said that the European Council began to transfer the three billion euros to the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey on specific projects. Note: The European Council begins to translate the three billion before we vote on today's document. Part of today's document is the scheme for the transfer of funds to the Republic of Turkey. You understand that all the principles of both the internal functioning of the Union and regional balances and the obligations of individual Member States have been violated in the European Union. This treaty, this Agreement, is proof of the unprincipled policy of the European Union in this case, which does not trust two Member States - Bulgaria and Greece - but trusts the Republic of Turkey with security at its external border and its own security. There's nothing wrong with that. It is reprehensible in terms of breaking the principles of European cohabitation. But in terms of protecting the interests of the Bulgarian state, I believe that the Bulgarian government has done absolutely nothing. He was a blind witness, a silent witness to the signing and drafting of this Agreement and the falling of Bulgaria from all its possible aspects. Because the Agreement can find a text that treats the future development of relations between the Western Balkans and the European Union. A text can be found that envisages the provision of financial and other economic assistance to the Western Balkans to guard the so-called Balkan road. But nowhere can a text be found that gives Bulgaria anything for guarding the busiest, most dangerous and longest land border at the time of the European Union with the Middle East. There's no comma, there's no point, there's no commitment. And the resonant question arises: could not Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Prime Minister, the Bulgarian Minister of Foreign Affairs put this question and say: Bulgaria is the country that is on the road, our honourable European colleagues, our allies! Bulgaria is on the road! We, free of charge, have our own powers, as has been said several times by the Prime Minister himself, are providing the EU's worst border at the moment. And what do we get? We don't even get attention in this Agreement. And it's not the first time in our history that this thing is happening. I demand that the Bulgarian government, in the future, strictly monitor compliance with the individual points of this Agreement. Although not provided for much of the mechanisms for its rethinking, as well as for blocking individual clauses, Bulgaria, as a member state that is directly interested, has the right to ask questions whenever the Agreement is violated. I do not want to dwell on other things that may have already been affected, such as the lack of any effective mechanism to control the spending of the funds that the European Union has provided to the Republic of Turkey. There is no effective control mechanism recorded in this Agreement. The agreement is a model of the European Union's opportunistic foreign policy, which has been conducted over the last year for a year and a half, which has long left the principles on the basis on which the European Union was built and already only reflects the interests of the largest countries in the Union. So we recommend to our government a clear, open position based on the immediate Bulgarian state interests so that we do not further develop these vicious practices of concluding such agreements so that our national security is not questioned every time other countries, at the expense of Bulgaria, try to resolve the issues of European security and so that we as opposition, even though we do not share a large part of the actions of the Bulgarian government at the moment, to support it when necessary. We can't support this agreement now. We cannot support it because the Bulgarian government did not do what was necessary to protect Bulgaria and to have it included in this Agreement! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u257	Replices, Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. Any other MPs? Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva has the floor. [[Sighs from the left:.]] In ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u258	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have listened with attention to your speeches and, due to the advanced time, I will try to be as brief as possible, referring, however, to the understanding that the text of the ratification agreement meets in the three main groups that said they would support this act. One is the group of GERB and the statement of Ms. Gemma Grozdanova, the other group is the Reformation bloc with its Chairman Nayden Zelenogorski and the third group is the DPS with Mr. Anastasov. In fact, they highlighted those elements of the Agreement, which are in the interests of Bulgaria and in the interests of the European Union. I'm not going back to them. Let us start, however, with the fact that it is about refugees and it is not about the relations that the European Union and our country have in Turkey, nor about visa liberalisation, nor about the issue of EU membership, nor about the fact that we want, of course, at each next step, to assess how Europe insists on meeting all the political criteria in the course of the negotiations. This is also my direct answer to Mr. Enchev's statement, which quoted an article by the Financial Times, Munchau's article, about the soul of Europe and whether we are exchanging Europe's values for security. Seventy-two are the requirements, I just want to say about visa liberalisation. From there on you have very detailed reasons for what we offer for ratification and there the schedule is given, and the reasons and the way in which the funds and the burden of Bulgaria will be spent and most of all the control that this will take place. The funds, the six million euros, are allocated on a schedule within four years, the most to be paid in 2017. All monitoring and control mechanisms, including anti-corruption measures, are monitored by OLAF. The European Commission will provide the Member States with a report on implementation. Inside the Agreement itself, you will see that there is a Committee that is watching, in which our country will participate, to see how the funds will be spent. This is the so-called Steering Committee. It will be represented by the Bulgarian side by a member of the Permanent Representation. And now I would like to say something about the roll-calling of countries in this Agreement. With all due respect to the alumnus that reported that we have not defended our national interests, I understand that we must meet the highest expectations, including from the opposition to Mr. Zablyanov, to all of you who have made it the heart of their speeches. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no mention of parties in this Agreement that we propose you to ratify. No country is officially mentioned except, of course, Turkey. So in this regard Bulgaria is mentioned in this context. 6, which says that Turkey will take all necessary measures to prevent the emergence of new maritime and land routes for illegal migration from Turkey to the European Union, and to this end you will be collaborating with neighbouring countries and with the European Union. However, our geographical situation is quite clear and there is no one to take away the status of a neighbouring country. So there is no doubt about it. I would like to say that indeed those of you who have mentioned that this text is being spoken from 3 November, which is now finalized and is given to your attention, has been discussed periodically at the National Assembly. My colleagues, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Interior, of course and the Prime Minister have answered your questions. Every position, foreign affairs and internal affairs have passed through the Council of Ministers and official such position from Bulgaria has at every step. Of course, it is also your task and your responsibility to keep track of how these positions are fully implemented. I would like to conclude with the fact that I recognise all the arguments and work to be able to make this happen - Bulgaria to become part of Schengen. The Prime Minister said that in his political talks by the end of the year he hoped this would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Colleagues, the debate is closed, there's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill ratifying the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule, No 602-02-8, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 March 2016. 140 MPs voted: 107 against 27, abstention 6. The ratification bill was adopted in the first vote. Mrs. Grozdanova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u260	Madam President, I ask for a procedure for consideration and for a second vote on the so-called ratification bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u261	I shall put to the vote the procedural motion for voting in a plenary sitting at first and second reading of the ratification under discussion. 140 MPs voted: 108, against 28, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u262	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Facility for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with its attached payment schedule A single member. It ratifies the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Facility for the benefit of refugees approved by the Member States on 3 February 2016 and the certificate of contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with its attached payment schedule. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u263	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u264	Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing that the text proposed to our attention today be dismissed for one essential reason. We are being proposed to vote on a text that is trying to solve a problem whose genesis has not been debated, is not discussed and is a palliative measure that will not solve the influx of refugees into the European Union in any way. We are trying with a single solution here to ratify something, to make it so that we can plaster and tuck under the carpet the main problem from where refugees are leaving and why they are leaving. We must find a solution to the main problem and force this topic to become the number one in the European Union, and not look for a way to spend the money of the European taxpayer, including the Bulgarian one, on things that will have an unclear result. There is no guarantee that this thing will not continue in full force after a year or two years. We need to find a solution to the main issue of how to stop all these military actions in the area in order to stop the influx of refugees, not only from Syria, but from all other countries where these economic migrants come from: from Iraq, from Iran, from Afghanistan and from Pakistan. This thing is currently just covering the main problem and its hiding under the carpet. This thing will erupt with full force in the future. We do not want and must not move on such things that will enable third countries to benefit in the future from such mechanisms, which will further burden the European Union's budget. For this reason, we in our parliamentary group propose that this text be not supported and rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u265	Your parliamentary word I heard it well, but I didn't understand which text you're suggesting dropped?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u266	The bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u267	One text of the Bill, but they are several.. there is a single article there is also a single paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u268	A single article and a single paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u269	So it's two texts. Colleagues, when there is a procedural proposal, I am obliged to put it to the vote in a timely manner. I'm voting on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. They voted 132 MPs: 24, against 92, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u270	Speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u271	Before that it was Mr. Julian Angelov, then it was you, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u272	Madam President, Madam Vice Prime Minister! We, from the Patriotic Front of NFSB and IMRO, will also not support this ratification at second reading. We set our reasons before that. I'll be very brief and say two things. One is that as long as Europe continues to be governed by men dressed in bodyguards and not the type of teenage T-shirt that will be the way things will be from now on. [[Laughter, excitement.]] And the other is, and I'm addressing the gentlemen and ladies of the DPS, to tell you this: from a willow lever and from Erdogan dost is no good.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u273	You're right about that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u274	Any lines to Mr. Angelov? I won't. Mr. Ivanov's procedure. [[BSP LB.]] There is a procedure that is given immediately. If there are no speeches, there will be no procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u275	Thank you, Madam President. I propose an end to the debate, as we are at second reading. [[GRUNTING BY GERB.]] Member of the Commission. - Madam President, since this is ratification and it is not subject to change, there is no way to change ratification. For this reason, I think it is necessary to accept my proposal and move on to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u276	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u277	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making a reverse offer. You want us to make one such decision without debate at second reading. You want to make Bulgaria an accessory to the stupidity of European bureaucrats. I don't agree! The wrong policy that the European Union is leading, you want us to support without debate on this issue. Please! So I'm making a reverse offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u278	I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ivanov. Vote 127 MPs: 101, against 52, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote at second reading the Draft Law on ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the Certificate of Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule together with the name of the Law, Article one, the name of the section. We vote. They voted 133 MPs: 106, against 23, abstention 4. The bill for ratification of the Agreement was also adopted at second reading. [[Noise, lines, much of the MPs from GERB and DPS come out of the hall.]] First negative vote. Here you go. Colleagues, I haven't announced the closing of the meeting. It's impolite for two minutes of patience! Let's hear from the coworkers! I'm asking for a fellowship between us. [[Noise, lines, MPs continue to come out of the room.]] Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Reza, Mr. Tsvetanov, the colleague has an explanation for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u279	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! Once, the Romans had said, "Pacta Clara" "Bonnie Amichi" "Clean accounts" "Good friends." However, with Islamist Turkey at the moment the accounts are not clear! The truth is that Islamist Turkey blackmailed the European Union, including us, Bulgaria! Today's vote of our parliament is disgraceful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u280	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Second negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u281	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are witnessing another disgrace that the National Assembly has made against the state. The Republic of Turkey with the money we will give her will stop 72,000 refugees, but will stop them in exactly two months. We're supposed to give it to 3 million refugees on their turf, and they only have 200,000 camps. Will they not use the other money for the war, for the civil war in southern Turkey against the Kurds?! As Chamberlain said in 1938, when they gave Hitler Austria and the Czech Republic to prevent the war: "You have made a great disgrace today, but the consequences that you think will not happen will happen very soon. And the disgrace remains for you! Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-30.u282	Third negative vote? I won't. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session with the starting part 9:00 p.m. Due to the implementation of our decision to extend plenary time to the vote on the Law on ratification that we have done, I am closing the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
