ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u1	Good afternoon, Members of the House! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, I offer your attention: Project! PROGRAM for the work of the National Assembly for the time from 22 to 24 June 2016 1. Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. The importer is Angel Naydenov. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Disasters. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 9 March 2016. A continuation of previous plenary sittings. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, Fond Madad................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs are importing. There are also two bills from the Council of Ministers, respectively, from 11 June 2015 and 21 April 2016. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act. Importers are Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. It was adopted in the first vote on 4 February 2016. This is intended to be the first item for tomorrow, Thursday, 23 June 2016. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the public sector. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. Second vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Water Act, drawn up by the Committee on Environment and Water, on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 8 June 2016 with importers: Nastimir Ananiev and Dimitar Delchev, first draft; second one is of the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Villa Lilkov and Hristo Grudev. 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers are Kiril Tsochev and a group of MPs. 11. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly Friday, 24 June 2016 at 9.00 pm, with the possibility of extending the plenary session and after 14.00 pm if MPs are able to attend and ask questions to ministers. We are voting on the proposal for a programme. They voted 133 MPs: 114, none, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u2	I have a proposal on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u3	We are not finished with the proposals under art. 50, para. 3. Mr. Boychev has prepared himself to imagine the proposal, and it is to be included as a point in our weekly programme First voting of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax, No 654-01-50, submitted by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. Mr. Boychev, you have the floor to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am making a proposal for an examination on the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Value Added Tax Act. The meaning of the bill introduced by us concerns a reduction of the standard tax rate that exists in the Republic of Bulgaria for infant foods, infant foods, transitional foods, disposable diapers, chairs and devices for young children, including the provision of services, home care for social patronage and for the care of children and elderly people or people with permanent disabilities, as well as the necessary facilities for them. Our country is in one of its worst demographic situations. The statistics report shows that for the first months of this year the number of births is more than 1500 less compared to the same months of the previous year. If we take the comparison with 2014, the trend becomes even more drastic. I know that some of you will say that the 5% reduction in the rate for these services and goods we offer is small, but our request and appeal to you is to support the examination of this Bill and let the National Assembly make the necessary gesture to the Bulgarian families and to those with permanent disabilities. This will remain more available income for the Bulgarian families and this will be a sign of support from the Bulgarian state. Separately, for disadvantaged people, there will be a greater opportunity to be adapted to social economic life in the country. I would like to say to you that the bill is in line with European legislation, which allows up to two reduced rates of value added tax to be adopted in national law. The fiscal impact on the budget is negligible, so there is no problem in endangering this framework. My request is that the Bulgarian Parliament be united on the future for the Bulgarian children, which is also the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u5	I expected that you would invite us to vote to include it in the programme, you developed these in essence. I put to the vote the proposal for inclusion in the weekly programme of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act. They voted 132 MPs: 52, against 38, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A formal reason for my revoting is that not everyone was able to vote, but I would also like to draw your attention to the importance of the draft proposed by us to be on the agenda. We talk about the demographic problem all the time. I'm not saying we're going to solve it with our bill, but it's nice to think that these are small steps towards solving this problem. With such a difficult life in Bulgaria, in our desire for Bulgaria to move forward, to have children, we have to do something. Understand that. My appeal to you is to support the bill we are proposing. If we have any problems with the texts of the Bill themselves, let's discuss them at first reading, between first and second reading to make proposals and take some measures for those people who care about the future of Bulgaria. Thank you and I expect your understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u7	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 132 MPs: 54, against 53, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of our parliamentary group, I propose that we invite the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs on matters relating to Romania's maritime initiative to be heard. The theme, known as the Black Sea Flotile, is sufficiently up-to-date. It has already been a seventh day of public attention and will certainly continue to focus this attention until and at the NATO summit in Warsaw at the beginning of July. What are our reasons for this proposal? The attempt by the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence to bring some clarity to this matter has proved unsuccessful. From the following information, and from the Prime Minister's statements, it becomes clear, firstly, that talks have been held not in the last month, but for at least six months on the subject of this maritime initiative. Secondly, the initiative is not limited to an increased number of ships in the Black Sea or an increased number of joint exercises. It is developing in some formal structure, which will probably be proposed and approved accordingly at the meeting in Warsaw, and in fact this is not the only initiative in such a regional format that includes Bulgaria's participation accordingly. And thirdly, in the Prime Minister's words, it appears that the ministers are having talks without informing him. Moreover, they made commitments, as he claims, behind his back. Only this would already be the basis for the plenary to request a hearing and clarification from the Prime Minister on these matters. But in fact, everything we have learned in recent days raises a series of other questions: who and how forms the Bulgarian foreign policy; who and how predeterminates our security policy; who and how defines the mandate and respectively what are the positions with which the Bulgarian delegation will participate in the meeting in Warsaw? These are the factual grounds that make us propose a hearing to the Prime Minister. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] One second, Madame Chairman! We discussed it at the Conference of Presidents. I know he has the respective commitments of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister. The question is to find the time within this week to bring clarity and stop with these mixed signals that we are giving out and in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u9	Dear Mr. Naydenov, you really put this question to the Conference of Presidents earlier this morning. In a telephone conversation with the Prime Minister, I informed him of the desire of the MPs to hear personally the Prime Minister and the two ministers of defence and foreign affairs, after which I informed you of the results of the conversation before the beginning of our plenary session. Today there is a meeting of the Council of Ministers where this topic is expected to be discussed, and today and tomorrow the President of Germany is visiting Bulgaria. On Friday, the prime minister will probably participate in the plenary session in Friday's parliamentary control, and then it is possible to provide answers to the questions you have asked. I repeat, today's Wednesday, and tomorrow's Thursday, is impossible to appear in parliament due to prior commitments. [[BSP LB.]] Messages, colleagues. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is also the lead of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. A bill ratifying the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of Montenegro. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It's also assigned to the Defence Committee. Draft amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft decision on changes in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media. Importer "Angel Naydenov." Draft decision on changes in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Importer "Angel Naydenov." Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Project for declaration of non-participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in new military formations and military activities in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea region. Importer Miho Mihov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and Montenegro on Social Security. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It will also be seen by the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Supreme Staff of the Allied Forces in Europe concerning the headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces signed on 30 March 2016 in Mons, the Kingdom of Belgium. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Report on the implementation of the budget of the National Assembly for 2015. Importer. The President of the National Assembly. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, a Standing Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Annual Report of the Communications Regulation Commission for 2015. Importer "The Communications Regulation Commission." It has been allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Annual report of the Communications Regulation Commission in the field of postal services It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 21 June 2016, the National Assembly received a copy of Decision No 7 of 21 June 2016 of the Constitutional Court under the Act of 21 June 2016. No 8 of 2015. By its decision the Constitutional Court shall rule at the request of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and declare the provision of art. 40, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information in the respective issues of the Official Journal. It's about our amendment in No. 28 of the Official Journal of the State since 2016, the norm declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court has been published. Moving to point one of our weekly program: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES TO RESPONSIBILITIES. Mr. Angel Naydenov, Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, has introduced two draft decisions for changes in the composition of the committees in view of the quota available to the group of BSP left Bulgaria. "Project" DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. The second draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media: "Project" DECISION on changes to the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote the draft decision to release Mr. Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the election of Mr. Ibrishimov as a member of the same Commission. We are voting on the first draft decision. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. The decision's been made. I vote on the draft decision to elect Mr. Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. They voted 130 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR DELIVERING AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE DESTINY (cont'd.) In the previous plenary sitting on Friday, paragraphs 38 to 40 are reported by importer, which become respectively paragraphs 39 to 41 inclusive. It says they've been reported and there's another vote coming up. This, colleagues, for those who monitor the report, is on page 1. 24. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 39 to 41 in accordance with the numbering and version of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u10	Voted 118 MPs: 108, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u11	According to § 41 there is a proposal made by the MPs Plamen Manushev, Hristo Gazhev and Valentin Radev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 41, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 64a and 64b: Art. 64a. (1) To assist the implementation of the activities under art. 64 A regional disaster risk reduction council shall be established. (2) Members of the Council under para. 1 are: mayors of municipalities or their authorized representatives, one representative of the municipal council from each municipality on the territory of the district, the Director of the Regional Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, the Commander of the Military Formation on the territory of the district, the Director of the Regional Directorate of the State Agency of National Security, the Director of the Center for Emergency Medical Assistance, the heads of the territorial units of the central administration of the executive power, legal persons including non-profit legal entities, and others involved in reducing the risk of disasters. (3) The District Council under para. 1 shall be chaired by the governor and represented by him. (4) The District Council under para. 1 lays down and adopts rules for its work. (5) The District Council under para. 1 shall follow the instructions and guidelines of the Council under art. 62, para. 3. (6) The District Council under para. 1 implement the activities and powers assigned to it by this law in the territory of the area concerned. (7) The name composition of the Council under para. 1 shall be determined by order of the governor. Art. 64b. The Regional Council for Disaster Risk Reduction: 1. develop and coordinate the implementation of the regional disaster risk reduction programme; 2. coordinate the implementation activities of municipal disaster risk mitigation programmes; 3. develop, review and update the regional disaster protection plan; 4. coordinate municipal disaster risk reduction programmes; 5. agree with municipal disaster protection plans; 6. review and prepare an annual report to the Council under art. 62, para. 3 on the state of disaster protection in the area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Statements under § 41? There aren't any. We are voting § 41 by importer, which becomes § 42 in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 92, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u13	Paragraph 42. There is a proposal made by the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 42, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 4 is amended as follows: "4." establish an early disaster alert organisation; (b) c. 5 the words "insuring the activities of the disaster protection plan in the municipality, as well as a reserve for urgent and unforeseen costs related to the protection of the population' shall be replaced by "accident protection'; (c) point 6 is repealed; (d) c. 7 after the word "Supremely" is added. (e) create a t. 8-14: It's 8 o'clock. by order, designate the Head of Operations; 9. coordinate and monitor the development and implementation of the municipal disaster risk reduction programme; 10. coordinate and supervise the development and implementation of the municipal disaster protection plan; 11. provide the capacity for response of the municipality; 12. organize and be responsible for the training of the municipal administration and the population of the municipality concerned, the ways of conduct and action in the event of disasters and the implementation of the necessary protective measures; 13. provide data on the development of the regional disaster risk reduction programme and the regional disaster protection plan. 14. Provides caravans for living, prefabricated houses or tents if there are no spare dwellings under art. 45 of the Municipal Property Act. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. In the event of a disaster, the words "in the event of a disaster" shall be replaced by "in accordance with the conditions laid down in art. 48, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (b) point 1 is repealed; (c) point 4 is repealed; (d) c. 5 the words "personal" or "material" shall be deleted. (e) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." may request a declaration of disaster by the district governor where the activities under art. 19th para. 1 through the implementation of the municipal disaster protection plan; 3. The creation of para. 3: The municipality headquarters under para. 1, t. 7 carry out the following basic activities: 1. analysis and assessment of the disaster situation; 2. propose to the mayor of the municipality for approval decisions on the necessary volume and resource provision of rescue and emergency recovery works to prevent, limit and eradicate the consequences of the disaster and to assist the affected population; 3. exercise control over the execution of the tasks and measures to control the disaster; 4. inform the public through the media of the development of the disaster, of the actions taken to limit and contain it and of the necessary precautions and actions; 5. report to the mayor of the municipality the progress of the protective activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any statements under § 42 by importer? I won't. We are voting § 42 by importer, which becomes § 43 in the version of the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 95, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u15	Paragraph 43. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 43, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 65a and 65b: Art. 65a. (1) To assist the implementation of the activities under art. 65 a municipal council is set up to reduce the risk of disasters. (2) Members of the Council under para. 1 are the deputy mayors of the municipality, the chief architect of the municipality, representatives of the municipal council, heads of emergency response structures, legal entities, including non-profit legal entities, and others involved in reducing the risk of disasters. (3) The Council under para. 1 shall be chaired by the mayor of the municipality and shall be represented by him. (4) The Municipal Council under para. 1 lays down and adopts rules for its work. (5) The Municipal Council under para. 1 shall follow the instructions and guidelines of the Council under art. 62, para. 3. (6) The Municipal Council under para. 1 performs the functions and powers assigned to it by this law in the territory of the municipality concerned. (7) The name composition of the Council under para. 1 shall be determined by order of the mayor of the municipality. Art. 65b. The Municipal Disaster Risk Reduction Board shall: 1. develop and coordinate activities for the implementation of the municipal disaster risk reduction programme; 2. develop, review and update the municipal disaster protection plan; 3. review and prepare an annual report to the Council under art. 64a, para. 1 for the state of disaster protection in the territory of the municipality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any statements under § 43 by importer? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My statement relates to some concepts that are mixed in this article. Such a term is provided for in art. 65a, para. 1 to set up a municipal council. Take note, colleagues, that in art. 62 is written down who are members of the Council. The Council of Ministers shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. 1 are the deputy mayors of the municipality, the chief architect of the municipality, representatives of the Municipal Council. And now I ask you: which municipal council members is the one being established, or the Municipal Council, which is elected legitimately under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration and Election Code? There is a tautology that enables misinterpretation of this text. So I'm going to make an editorial change so there's precision in terms. For that purpose in art. 65a, para. 1 after the words the word "advised" is created to be replaced by the words "Community Committee for Disaster Risk Reduction." In this way we define exactly and clearly the structure of this body and it can no longer be mixed because I ask you: in which of all municipal councils in this text are the members? Which one of these city councils? Here is the intertwining of municipal councils to wonder what really municipal council it is about. From then on, they must be done: In para. 2 - not the members of the council, but the members of the committee. In para. 3 The word "advised" I propose that it be replaced by the "advised" under para. 1.................................................................................. In para. 4 The Municipal Council under para. It must be replaced by the Community Committee. In para. The Community Committee and so on. I don't know what the Commission was looking at, but if anyone could explain it to me, which municipal council is it, I'd be grateful for it. I imagine when the law is read, people will think of which municipal council of all. Which city council? I see it's funny to you, but it's not funny to me, because this whole thing then creates a series of interpretations and many other problems for people who become victims of disasters of a different nature. It's a very serious issue, and there should be a precise concept here. I therefore make these editorial proposals and please be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u18	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other statements under § 44? Do you have a statement, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u19	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. First of all, we vote on the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov, the word "Video" in § 44, in the proposed text of art. 65a to be replaced by the word.............................................................................................. Isn't that right, Mr. Bayraktarov? The word "Council" in § 44, where the creation of a new art is proposed. 65a, in all subparagraphs, I see that it is also in art. 65b, in the whole text, the word "the Council" shall be replaced by "the Council." Please vote on the proposal of the National Representative Bajraktarov. They voted 82 MPs: 13 against 4, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of § 43 by importer, which shall become § 44 in the version of the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 80, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u21	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u22	In paragraphs 44 and 45, are there any statements by importer? I won't. We vote paragraphs 44 and 45 by importer. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u23	There is a proposal made by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Manol Genov and Dora Yankova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 6: supposed to execute and/or thwart the execution of an order under art. 64, para. 1, t. Art. 13 or under art. 65, para. 1, t. 8 is punished with a fine from 1,500 to 5,000 BGN......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. 1 "5" is replaced by "al." 1.. 6...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u24	Thank you. Statements on the proposal to create a new § 47? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 47. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u25	According to § 46 the proposal from the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 46, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 100 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the Minister of Interior is add the bodies referred to in art. 63, para. 2. In para. 2 after the words the administrative infringements under the................................................................................................. is 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The Criminal Orders shall be issued by the Minister of Interior, by the authorities under art. 63, para. 1 or by officials authorised by them, and in the cases under para. 2 by the respective district manager.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u26	Statements, ladies and gentlemen, under § 46 by importer? I won't. We are voting § 46 by importer, which becomes § 48 by the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u27	According to § 47, a proposal from the MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 47, which shall become § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "geologically (geologically, geophysically)'shall be replaced by "geologically', and the words "currencies of debris' shall be replaced by "rock-stone plows'. 2. Points 11-13 are amended as follows: "11." It is a dangerous phenomenon, substance, human activity or condition that can cause loss of human life, trauma or other health consequences, property damage, loss of livelihood and services, social and economic turmoil or environmental damage. 12. Vulnerability is the characteristics and condition of a community, system or asset that make them susceptible to the harmful factors of a hazard. 13. A disaster risk is the potential disaster losses that may arise for a community, including life, health status, livelihood, assets and services, within a certain period of time. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 18 after the word "Protections" is added. 4. They're creating a t. 22-26: "22." The Early Warning System is a set of necessary capabilities to create and disseminate timely and significant warning information enabling people, communities and organisations in danger to prepare and act appropriately in order to reduce possible damage or loss. 23. The ability to secure equipment and an appropriate number of persons using the available resources to effectively deal with or assist in dealing with a disaster is a response. 24. Reactivation is the actions taken during or immediately after the disaster in order to save lives, reduce health impacts, ensure public safety and the basic needs of the affected people. 25. The knowledge and capabilities of state structures, organizations, communities and people who help predict, respond and eradicate the consequences of probable, inevitable, occurring or occurring disasters, which have been achieved as a result of action taken in advance. 26. "Decreasing the risk of disasters' is the identification, analysis and assessment of disaster risk and the implementation of measures to eliminate or reduce it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u28	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, of § 47 by importer? There aren't any. We are voting § 47 by importer, which becomes § 49 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u29	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u30	Statements on proposals for the name of the subdivision, § 48 and 49 by importer? There aren't any. We are voting on the proposal for the name of the section "Transitional and Final Provisions', § 48 and 49 by importer, supported by the Commission, which are done by a new numbering § 50 and 51 respectively. Please vote. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u31	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 50, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The programs under art. 6a, para. 2, p. 4 shall be developed within three months of acceptance/confirmation of the documents under § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u32	Under §50 by importer statements? There aren't any. We are voting § 50 by importer, which becomes § 52 in the version of the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u33	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 51, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The programs under art. 6a, para. 2, p. 5 shall be developed within three months of acceptance/confirmation of the documents under § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u34	Under § 51 by importer statements? I won't. We are voting § 51 by importer, which becomes § 53 in the version of the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u35	Under § 52, there is a proposal from MP Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 52, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The instructions under art. 6a, para. 3 shall be drawn up within three months of the development of the programme under art. 6a, para. 2, p. 2. (2) The instructions under art. 9, para. 15 shall be drawn up within nine months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u36	Statements under § 52 by importer? There aren't any. We are voting § 52 by importer, which becomes § 54 by version of the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u37	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 56.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u38	Under § 53 and 54 by importer statements? I won't. We are voting in favour of § 53 and 54 by importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 55 and 56 respectively. Vote 82 MPs: 78, none, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u39	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 55, which shall become § 57: ...... 57............................................................... Until the development of the documents referred to in § 50, 51, 52 and 53, the planning documents in force shall apply in so far as they do not conflict with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u40	Thank you. By § 55 of the importer's statements? There aren't any. We are voting § 55 by importer, which becomes § 57 in the version of the Commission. 84 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u41	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u42	Statements under § 56, 57, 58 and 59 by importer? There aren't any. We vote on § 56, which becomes § 58, § 57, which becomes § 59, § 58, which becomes § 60, § 59, which becomes § 61, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u43	Proposal by the MP Svetoslav Belemezov: A new paragraph 60 shall be created and the draft paragraph 61 shall be respectively: ........................................................ Until the analysis, evaluation and mapping of risks from disasters for seismic risk, flood risk, risk of nuclear or radiation accident, geological risk and risk of forest fires, research, analysis, evaluation and mapping of hazards and disaster risks shall be carried out with expertise in accordance with the European Union Directives and through existing methodologies. The Commission does not support the proposal and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u44	Thank you. This is the last text. There'll probably be speeches. Mr. Belemezov doesn't want to take the floor. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 24, against 12, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 60 by importer, which becomes § 62, supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 72, none, abstention 9. The motion has been passed, and with that, the entire Law. Before we move on to the next item of our weekly program, on behalf of a parliamentary group, please, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! DECLARATION of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group Ladies and gentlemen, the Executive Council, the Parliamentary Group and the Civil Council of the Reformation Bloc stand for the national security and territorial integrity of Bulgaria as fundamental values guaranteed by the full membership of our country in NATO. Bulgaria's integration into the common North Atlantic defence union is an undeniable and irreversible achievement of Bulgarian democracy. It is a result of the long-standing desire of the Bulgarian people to feel safe and secure member of the family of democratic and prosperous nations. As a parliamentary political force, the Reformation bloc will continue to guarantee the democratic development of the Republic of Bulgaria, defend the country's participation as an equal, correct and predictable partner in Euro-Atlantic structures. Europe's collective security, including in our region, is achieved through the joint decisions and initiatives of the Atlantic allies. The Bulgarian national interest is to participate actively and responsibly in these processes of global and regional security. It is the responsibility of the politicians and the party in Bulgaria to prevent abuse of the fears of the people. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. The next item in our programme, honourable Members, is: LAW FOR THE RETIFICE OF THE REGIONAL DOUBLE FUND OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN RESPONSE TO THE SYRIAN CRISIS, THE FOND MADAD, AND THE INTERNAL RULES BETWEEN THE GENEAL DIRECTION OF COOPERATION FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ITALIAN MINISTRY OF OVERLOADS AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION OF THE NAME OF THE EUROPEAN UNION AND OF THE DONOR'S. PART OF ANNEX II OF THE REGIONAL DOMINATION AGREEMENT OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SYRIUS CRIZA, THE EUROPEAN UNION AND OF THE DONOR'S. There are reports of several committees. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u47	♪ I can't believe on a draft law on the ratification of an Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At a regular meeting held on 15 June 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Rumen Alexandrov "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs" as follows: On 8 October 2015, a high-level conference was held in Luxembourg with the participation of the ministers of the foreign and internal affairs of the 28 member states of the European Union, the countries of the Western Balkans, as well as those most affected by the refugee crisis from Syria, neighbouring countries, Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. The main objective of the conference was to discuss the possibilities for managing migration flows along the Western Balkan and Eastern Mediterranean route and to seek effective solutions, including by providing additional financial assistance to the countries most affected by the refugee crisis. Specialized EU trust funds are particularly effective and flexible to achieve the above objectives, with better coherence, visibility and speed in providing support or carrying out EU actions under different financial instruments and in different countries. The trust fund Madads is the only instrument for financing from the EU with a real regional scope not only in Syria but also in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Egypt (the main flows of migrants in Europe originate from Syria, but also from Iraq and Afghanistan). Its objectives and scope are formulated in a way that allows the funds to be used for the most affected countries in the Western Balkans. During the participation in the high-level conference in Luxembourg, Bulgaria announced a contribution of 100 000 euros to "Fond Madad" as confirmation of our active position in finding effective solutions to the refugee problem in Europe and as an act of solidarity with the most affected countries. The source of funding for Bulgaria's contribution of EUR 100 000 will be provided for the budget for official development aid from the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the year in question. The Agreement is signed and entered into force on 15 December 2014, as provided for in art. 17 procedure. On 4 March 2016, the Agreement was amended and supplemented in accordance with art. 19 of the same reason its consolidated version is applied. The amendments were imposed by the need to extend the Fund's scope to the Western Balkans region, according to the European Commission Decision of 21 December 2015. The Republic of Bulgaria will join the Agreement by sending a signed Certificate which, together with the other signed and deposited certificates by other donors, will become part of Annex II. By virtue of art. 3 of the Certificate by signing it each donor confirms that it will be bound in every respect by its terms and subsequent amendments. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 12 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing a regional trust fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, the "Fund Madad" and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Certificate of Contribution to the donors, part of Annex II to the Agreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Mrs. Stoyanova, can you give us the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u49	♪ I can't believe on a draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis.Fund Madad................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ At a regular meeting held on 16 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement. The presentation of the Bill noted that the Trust Fund is a response to the crisis in Syria and the only EU financing instrument of real regional scope not only in Syria, but also in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Egypt. On 8 October 2015, issues on the Fund were discussed at a high-level conference held in Luxembourg with the participation of the ministers of foreign and internal affairs of the 28 EU member states. Bulgaria at this forum has announced a contribution of 100 000 euros to the fund as a confirmation of its active position to find effective solutions to the refugee problem in Europe and as an act of solidarity with the most affected countries. The source of funding for Bulgaria's contribution of 100 000 euros will be from the planned budget for official development assistance from the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. By virtue of art. 3.2.2 of the Agreement each contribution from a donor shall be made by signing a certificate of contribution according to a model of the Agreement. By sending a signed contribution certificate to the Manager, the donor agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and the Republic of Bulgaria will accede to the Agreement by sending a signed Certificate. The Agreement is signed and entered into force on 15 December 2014, as provided for in art. 17 procedure. On 4 March 2016, the Agreement was amended and supplemented in accordance with art. 19 of the same reason its consolidated version is applied. The agreement contains both financial commitments for the State and provides for its participation in arbitration settlement of international disputes, and therefore on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 et c. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is subject to ratification by the National Assembly by law. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 17 votes in favour, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly that the Draft for ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. The next report is from the Committee on Legal Affairs, President, Vice-President, Commissioner? Is there a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs in this House? Here you go, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u51	♪ I can't believe on a draft law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis,.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At its meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, the Fund Madads and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Certificate of Contribution of donors, part of Annex II of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, the Fund of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union, No 602-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mrs. Maria Pavlova, Director of the Directorate of Development and Development Cooperation, Mrs. Etelka Chernkova, State Expert in the Directorate of Development and Development Cooperation and Mrs. Natalie Pavlova, Jr. at the Directorate of International Law and EU Law. The bill was presented by Mrs. Pavlova, who pointed out that the Fund Madads was created in response to the refugee crisis in Syria and Iraq and aims to help refugees more effectively, to seek solutions to deal with migration flows and their legitimate governance. The Fund will provide financial assistance to those affected by the situation in Syria and Iraq, neighbouring countries such as Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon. It announced that the creation of European Union trust funds is an effective and flexible way to achieve better coherence, visibility and speed in providing support or carrying out actions of the European Union. The trust fund Madad is the only financing instrument from the European Union with an actual regional scope not only in Syria, but also in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Egypt and its objectives and scope, which allows the funds to be used for the most affected countries in the Western Balkans. Mrs. Pavlova pointed out that the Republic of Bulgaria has announced a contribution of 100 000 euros to the Fund Madads in confirmation of the active position of the Bulgarian state for finding effective solutions to the refugee problem in Europe and as an act of solidarity with the most affected countries. The funding will be implemented with the planned budget from the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. She pointed out that the Fund's main funding will come from the European budget and currently around 639 million have been collected in the Fund. Euros. The ratification of the Agreement shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In response to the question asked by Mr. Emil Dimitrov, Mrs. Pavlova clarified that the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a party to the Agreement, as Italy is the first State to sign the Agreement with the European Union and each subsequent Member State joins this Agreement for the formation of the "Fond Madad" and added that the Secretariat of the Fund is located in Brussels. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes in favour of the European Union, without the crisis, and with 1 vote, abstentions proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of an Agreement on the Establishment of a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, the Fond Madd and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Certificate of Contribution to the Donors, part of Annex II to the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, the Fund of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union, No 602-02-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u52	Thank you, Mr. Nikiforov. The next report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Who will present the report to the Commission? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of an Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis,................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At its regular meeting on 15 June 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement establishing a regional trust fund of the European Union in response to the crisis under review, Fond Madd. The following representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Rumen Alexandrov On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the consolidated version of the above Agreement, signed on 15 December 2014 and amended and supplemented on 4 March 2016, as well as the Certificate of Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria, part of Annex II to that Agreement. The creation of a specialised European Union trust fund should respond to the need for enhanced cooperation and coordination with international partners in order to ensure legitimate management of migration flows. The funds provided by the Fund are intended not only to support refugees but also to combat organised crime responsible for the trafficking of migrants and smuggling, as well as to ensure reliable border control and return of those who do not have refugee status under international law. Trustful "Fund Madad" should be sufficiently effective and flexible to achieve these objectives, while being the only financing instrument from the European Union with an actual regional scope that allows funds to be used not only in Syria, but also in Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq, Egypt, as well as the most affected countries in the Western Balkans. During a high-level conference held in Luxembourg on 8 October 2015 with the participation of the ministers of the foreign and internal affairs of the EU member states, Bulgaria announced its contribution of 100 000 euros to the "Fond Madad" as a sign of solidarity with the countries concerned and as an expression of an active position in finding working solutions to the refugee problem. A source of funding for this contribution should be provided for the budget for official development aid from the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the relevant year. In accordance with art. 3.2.2 of the Agreement each contribution from a donor shall be made by signing a certificate of contribution according to a model (Annex III to the Agreement). The signed and deposited certificates constitute Annex II to the Agreement. By sending a signed certificate, the donor shall confirm that it will be bound in all respects by the provisions of the Agreement and subsequent amendments thereto. In view of the above and as a result of the voting, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed, with 11 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tanchev. This is the last report on the draft discussion. I am opening the debates on the Bill for ratification of the Agreement under discussion. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! From the patriotic front, we supported in the Committee on Foreign Policy with a particular view this ratification, not because we are opposed to spending funds precisely on refugees in the countries surrounding the conflicts, where we believe it is appropriate to allocate funds and to keep these people there, so that after the conflict in Syria is over, they can return to their homeland, and our particular opinion was on two things that I will sharpen your attention on. One is that the contribution Bulgaria makes to this Fund will not actually give it the right to vote to determine how to use the funds raised by the Member States of the European Union, which we think is wrong. If Bulgaria, or any country in the European Union, finances such things, it is normal to respect its voice. So that was one of the things that bothered us. The second in which we believe that it does not make sense that this Fund is intended to use funds, including for the Republic of Turkey, provided that there are already two agreements with the Republic of Turkey and clear parameters for financing refugees on its territory. We do not believe that additional funds should be allocated again to the Republic of Turkey in the field of health and education of refugees and so on, and these funds should be allocated precisely to other countries that do not cover the agreement with the Republic of Turkey and the European Union. For this reason, we will support. Once again, we have a particular opinion on ratification from the point of view that there are two controversial moments for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Is there a line to Mr. Angelov? There are no lines. Any other speeches on the draft discussion? There are no other speeches. Honourable Members of Parliament, take your seats in this Chamber, there is a vote to be taken. I am closing the debate on the Draft at first reading. We are voting for the Law on the ratification of an Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, Fond Madhad and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Certificate of Contribution of donors, part of Annex II of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, Fond Madd and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union. Vote 91 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 2. The proposal has been adopted. The bill was adopted at first reading. Is there a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u57	Mr. President, Members, I ask for a procedure to be dealt with by the so-called ratification bill in the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We're listening to the bill, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u59	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of an Agreement establishing a regional trust fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, "Fund Madad" and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Certificate of Contribution of donors, part of Annex II of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the crisis, "Fond Madd" and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Cooperation for the Development of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union A single member. Ratification of the Agreement establishing a regional trust fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, Fond Madhad and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union, signed on 15 December 2014 and the Certificate of Contribution of donors, part of Annex II of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, "Fund Madad" and its internal rules between the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation of the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the European Commission on behalf of the European Union, signed on 15 December 2014. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Statements at second reading? There aren't any. We are voting at second reading to you the presented Draft Law on ratification of an Agreement. Vote 95 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are continuing with the next item of our weekly program, and this is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BULGARIAN PERSONAL DOCUMENTS. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First of all, I would like to make a proposal for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, in connection with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016; Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454-01-54, submitted by Ilia Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014; and Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u62	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission to this House. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. Give us the report, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u63	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454-01-54, submitted by Ilia Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014. At its meeting held on 25 February 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454-01-54, submitted by the National Representative Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014. Plamena Nedyalkova attended by the Ministry of Interior an expert on legal issues, Tsvetomir Panchev................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by the MP Iliya Iliev. The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Identity Documents proposes the creation of legal norms which allow legalization of the address registration of persons who do not have a permanent and current address due to the indwelling of illegal buildings and cannot be legitimized with a valid lease contract. This vicious practice was created with the emptiness in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, regarding the registration of these persons and creates huge difficulties for the state administration and security services of the Ministry of Interior. The registration of 200 to 300 people at one address makes it impossible to communicate and identify these persons in case they are sought by the state authorities. According to the importers, this problem should be solved by creating a file by the mayors for those Bulgarian citizens who do not meet the conditions for an address registration and to be kept at a temporary business address. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior gave a negative opinion on the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act. They consider that the meaning and meaning of the temporary business address and the way it is defined are not defined. There are no legal definitions, which is a significant omission in the ZID of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The criteria for the implementation of the file procedure are not clear, and the Ministry of Interior includes a function which is legally within the powers of the GRO of MRRB. On the other hand, the identity card does not provide for the possibility to write information about a temporary business address, both for legitimization and for correspondence. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Stefan Dedev, Mustafa Karadaiy, Atanas Atanasov, who pointed out that this bill poses ill problems which should be resolved through a deeper analysis of the gaps in legislation. People's representative Atanas Atanasov pointed out that solving the problem should be linked to changes in the Law on Civil Registration, as well as to activate the activities of mayors who have obligations in this area. Last but not least, he stressed that the Law on Construction on the Territory should also examine the application of the Institute of Tolerance, concerning illegal sites. People's representative Atanas Merdjanov proposed to hold a hearing of representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior in order to solve the complex of problems raised during the discussion of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Bulgarian Identity Documents Act. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 4 votes in favour, 2 votes in favour and 7 votes abstentions did not support the Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 454 01 54, tabled by the National Representative Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014, and suggested that the National Assembly should not accept it in the first vote. That was the first report. There are two more reports. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. At its meeting held on 8 July 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov and Maria Rangelova attended by the Ministry of Interior. The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, who outlined the link between the proposed Draft and Legislative Amendments, subsequent Resolution No 2178 of the Security Council of the United Nations and the Decision of the Council of Ministers to submit to the National Assembly a package of bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Asylum and Refugees. Deputy Minister Tzipov emphasized on the changes concerning the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, giving the opportunity to propose an amendment of the forced administrative measure under art. 75, para. 1 by ordering the Chairperson of the SANS to impose such a measure where there is evidence that such identified foreign fighters are being carried out, instigated, engaged in preparations, assisted or engaged in terrorist training. During the debate, the people's representative Hamid Hamid took the attitude, who expressed his willingness to support the submitted bill and noted that the wording used in it............... is........................................................................... and suggested to be replaced with the term....... As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes for the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015 supported the Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt it in the first vote. There's another report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u64	Yes, I see that one report was signed by Mr. Atanas Atanasov and the other by Mr. Tsvetanov. Give her the other report. We'll wait for someone to explain to us why there are two reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u65	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 1 June 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Interior: Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, and Atanas Slavov, an adviser in the political cabinet of the Council of Ministers. The bill amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act was presented by Minister Bachvarova. The Bill proposes amendments and additions which regulate the way in which the electronic identity carrier is implanted in personal documents. The objective being set is to access electronic identification by a maximum number of citizens, which will increase the use of electronic administrative services and reduce bureaucratic and financial costs for both citizens and businesses. The bill explicitly provides for the presence of an electronic carrier of information, a chip implanted in ID cards. The proposed Bill creates a legal opportunity for Bulgarian citizens' ID cards to contain data and certificates of electronic identity and qualified electronic signature. Minister Bachvarova pointed out that the bill is systematically related to the legal framework for electronic identification and certification services in national European law and is also consistent with the standards and practices adopted by the Member States of the European Union. Provisions have been introduced to enable citizens to control what information is recorded on electronic media contained in ID cards. There is also a way to embed an electronic chip into international passports. Thus, Bulgarian citizens living abroad will be able to use electronic services in the country. This also enables the issue of electronic voting to be settled in the future. The draft Law provides for personal identification to be carried out on other media as well. Thus, citizens can assess whether to use a chip in their ID cards, receiving their new personal documents. The bill also provides for foreign citizens to have their identification for the use of electronic services whether they are in our country or outside the country. All this obliges us to maintain a high level of security of personal identification. The bill does not imply a mandatory change of the ID cards of the Bulgarian citizens. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Dimitar Delchev and Krasimir Yankov took part in the discussion. Questions related to the cost of service and practice in other European countries were asked. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. It became clear that there are three bills and this explains the two reports of the Council of Ministers and one of Mr. Iliev. The next report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Dear colleagues, the balcony of the National Assembly is attended by students from the school of school.................................................................................................. Please give them a round of applause. [[Applause.]] Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u67	Dear Mr. Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the House, guests! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454-01-54, submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of narrated representatives. At a regular meeting held on 11 December 2014, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454-01-54, submitted by Ilia Iliev and a group of MPs on 28 November 2014. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Ilia Iliev. The bill suggests that the mandatory personal data contained in the Bulgarian personal documents should include a temporary business address for correspondence in special cases. It is also proposed that citizens should be able to apply for the issue of identity documents and without a permanent address in the municipality where they have been registered for the last five years on the basis of which the competent authorities can issue personal documents and establish a temporary business address for correspondence. The bill is directly related to proposals from the same importers, a Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Registration Act, which provides for, exceptionally, a business temporary address instead of a permanent address to be entered. A negative opinion of the Ministry of Interior has been submitted under the Bill, indicating its shortcomings and the reasons why it cannot be supported. In the course of the discussion, it was found that the existing problems raised by importers not only cannot be solved with the proposed changes but will also create additional problems with their implementation. The proposed texts of the Bill do not make it clear which are the special cases and which are the exceptions in which the proposed provisions will be applied, respectively........................................................................................... It is not clear how the temporary address for correspondence and correspondence will be defined with whom and in what cases it will be used, there is no definition of the concept which does not appear in the current provisions of the legislation. It is not clear whether the proposed temporary business address for correspondence is similar or different to the temporary business address proposed by the same importers with the Draft Amendment to the Civil Registration Act. In addition, the proposal in the mandatory personal data contained in the Bulgarian personal documents will, in particular, include a temporary business address for correspondence, also create purely practical problems, as only the identification card indicates a permanent address and in the other documents the column for any address does not exist. It is also not clear what the registration of the relevant persons in the municipality should be in the last five years with a current address, or with proposals under the Civil Registration Act a temporary business address. It is also unclear what happens if in the last five years a person has different address registrations in more than one municipality. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 3 votes......................................................................... and 5 votes..................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u68	Thank you. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. At its meeting held on 17 June 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Nina Chimova, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs. On behalf of importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015 was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The Bill proposes changes aimed at supplementing measures adopted in national law to combat terrorism in the context of its growing spread as a risk to international peace and security. The United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2178 of 2014 focuses on the threat imposed by foreign terrorist fighters, defined as traveling to a country other than the country of origin or in which they reside for the purpose of carrying out, preparing, planning, participating in training for the conduct of terrorist acts. The necessary criminal measures are included in a draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, which provides for criminalisation of acts relating to terrorist activities. The draft legislation proposes administrative measures and measures of administrative coercion to help limit entry, transit and leaving the country of persons with evidence that they are involved in terrorist activity. In this direction are the proposed legislative amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the Law on State Agency "National Security" and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and in the Law on Asylum and Refugees. The proposed provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria complement the grounds for refusing to issue or extending the residence permit in the country, the grounds for withdrawing the right of residence in the country, expulsion and the grounds for submitting an alert for the purposes of refusing entry into the Schengen Information System in relation to that category of persons. MPs Yavor Notev and Hamid Hamid Hamid took part in the discussion, who spoke in support of the Bill, noting that some of the texts needed precision. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: with 9 votes for the Council of Ministers to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A report from the Commission on the control of security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications follows. Here you go, Mr. Dedev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u71	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. At its meeting held on 2 July 2015, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502-01-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior. He presented the draft, which complies with part of the recommendations addressed to the States by United Nations Security Council Resolution 2178 of 2014 proposing administrative measures and administrative coercion measures to help limit entry, residence, transit and departure from persons who are reported to be engaged in, instigating or participating in preparation, assistance or training for terrorist activity. For the implementation of these measures in the current legislation with the final provisions of the Bill, relevant amendments and additions are proposed in the Law on State Agency "National Security" and the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Law on Asylum and Refugees. The bill was supported by Mr. Dimitar Lazarov as necessary and introducing measures that already exist and apply in other countries. After the discussion and vote held with 17 votes..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Dedev. The latest report, ladies and gentlemen, belongs to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 May 2016, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents was discussed, No 602-01-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Svetlana Tseneva, Director of the Department of Bulgarian Identity Documents and the advisers in the office of Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior: Mr. Anton Gerunov, Mr. Bozidar Bojanov and Mr. Atanas Slavov. The bill was presented by Mr. Anton Gerunov. Mr. Gerunov noted that the proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents regulates the presence of an electronic medium (chip) in ID cards, not providing for a mandatory change of personal documents. It is intended to take place step by step on the expiry of the current ones. The Law creates a legal opportunity for the identification documents of Bulgarian citizens to contain data and certificates of electronic identity and qualified electronic signature. It is proposed that in the event that the citizen does not wish to use electronic identification, he should expressly state that. In the presence of an electronic medium in the identity card, the person requesting such a card may choose a qualified electronic signature provider and the supplier concerned may issue a certificate of qualified electronic signature. It is also possible to record the biometric data of the citizen in a separate secure segment of the electronic medium if the application explicitly states a desire to do so. Mr. Gerunov drew attention to the fact that the draft regulation regulates the possibility of recording electronic identity and electronic signature certificates in the international passport, but only if the citizen has explicitly stated desire to do so. Also defined are rules for termination of electronic identity certificates and qualified electronic signature when declaring a personal document invalid. It has been stressed that the need to provide additional protection and increase the security of personal documents has been taken into account. In this regard, it is envisaged that the data contained in the machine-reading part of the ID cards should also be entered in the built-in electronic medium of information, protected from counterfeiting with cryptographic methods by means of an electronic seal of the Ministry of Interior. The importers propose that the law should enter into force from 1 January 2018, when the Ministry of Interior will have a technical opportunity to issue personal documents with electronic means. After the discussion, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 9 votes.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. This was the last report on the draft laws under discussion. I'm opening the debate on the three bills. Before that, I give the importers the opportunity to present the bills, if they wish, of course. Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will present our reasons for the changes in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. After numerous meetings held by us throughout the country with Bulgarian citizens, mainly in districts with mixed populations, we found that thousands of Bulgarian citizens live in many cities in the country without real address registration and identity documents, following the removal of their residential buildings by the municipal authorities in which they lived and were registered. There are hundreds of examples on the territory of the country in different districts and municipalities in which the local authorities unconstitutionally remove and delete residential buildings in which Bulgarian citizens are previously registered and accommodated. As a result of this factology, victims are forced to look for an address for relatives, acquaintances and relatives, which leads to the accumulation of a huge number of people, registered at the same address that they don't really live at. As a result of the above circumstances, de facto the mayors who removed the residential buildings and deleted the people's address records were forced to register the same ones, only with 200 people at the same address. There are thousands of such cases throughout the country and we think it is unacceptable in a one-storey three-bedroom house or apartment to register the municipality for 200 people. I will only point out that a minimum of 13 sq.m. is envisaged as standard in the European Union. It's a living area for one person to live in. Is this not a clear and conscious exit from an awkward situation by the municipal authorities precisely because we do not have a law and regulation governing the actions of the municipal authorities in such cases, to be in the interests of the public and the state? Leaving these people on the street without a roof over their heads by the municipal authorities makes them illegal to any state institutions. This leads to violations of basic human rights such as a doctor's review, even emergency assistance; application for a job; providing education to children; inability to receive any correspondence; deprivation of their right of free residence and movement in the country and beyond, which is actually guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 1: All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights and art. 35 of the Constitution, para. 1: Everyone has the right to freely choose their belongings, to move along the territory of the country and beyond its borders. As a result, there is a tendency of increasing citizens without documents and without an address registration in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. This is also a prerequisite for committing multiple crimes, some of which are therefore impossible to detect the possible perpetrators, precisely because of the lack of identity of the alleged perpetrator. Given the above-mentioned factology, I believe that this poses a threat to national security, even more as a result of the many refugees entering the territory of the country. They can actually get mixed up with our people in the neighborhoods they're not registered in and we can't really find them. In view of this and in order to reduce the likelihood of abuse of domestic, economic, social and criminal nature, I consider it extremely necessary to change the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Colleagues, since we are once again discussing this Law, including the Civil Registration Act, which is interrelated, I will only give you an example, that is, not one, I can point out a few. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, the application for the issue of identity documents of Bulgarian citizens contains the following personal data: the applicant, in order to be issued an identity card, must state a permanent address. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask each and every one of you to consider: which permanent address indicates this person who is registered in a house where 300 others are registered?! Is this really his address? Is it possible that 200 - 300 people live in three rooms?! Of course. It's not. That is why with many other motives, including from this Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, see art. 29, where it is said that every Bulgarian citizen living in the country is obliged to request the issuance of an ID card within 30 days after the age of 14. What address does it indicate and is this the address where 300 other people are registered?! Here we have a repeated violation of not one, but several laws. I believe that we, the MPs, are the people who need to solve this problem and make proposals. I have heard the reports of the Legal Commission and the Regional Commission. They say there is not enough clarity, there are no clear motives, what will be written on the ID card and so on. We have described clearly and accurately that our idea is in the identity cards of those people who do not really have an address to enter a temporary business address. The idea is that these people, who are really illegal so far, should be registered in a separate filing cabinet in each municipality and the mayor, or the district government, to know that there are 400 or 1000 people in this municipality who do not have real address registrations, but are separated in a card store, which can be found much easier and found by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, by all institutions. Not when there's a crime, the Ministry of Interior is looking for a needle in a haystack, as they say. What was also said by the Regional Commission just now that there is not enough clarity: what, how will it be entered? Colleagues, that's why we're 240 people here. I'm not saying I'm the smartest of them all. We have given an idea of a solution to this problem. My proposal and request to all of you is to adopt the Law at first reading and between first and second reading to make separate proposals I ask you very much to think about this, because this is a problem that concerns the whole society and it is about to be solved by us by the MPs. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Iliev. On behalf of the importers, would anyone else like to take the floor? Mr. Deputy Minister? No. Thank you. I open the debate on a draft law on three laws at the same time. To speak, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to state on behalf of the Group of the Patriotic Front that we will support the two bills tabled by the Council of Ministers and we will definitely not support the tabled by Iliya Iliev and a group of MPs from the DPS and DSS Party Bill for amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Naturally, I would like to draw immediately the attention of the Members of the National Assembly to the proposals made by the National Representative Iliya Iliev. Here I will now express my personal opinion as a Member of the National Assembly that the proposals made in the first place demonstrate a deep ignorance of the same Law and, naturally, the cited Civil Registration Act. What does the public representative Mr. Iliev propose, who has almost ten minutes to present an opinion which, with the proposals, completely contradicts even his opinion? First, if you had read, dear Mr. National Representative, the entire Law, you would know that children receive an address registration at the current and permanent address of this registration, where their parents are registered. However, since you have not read the Law, you have not even paid attention to art. 9, which says what are the mandatory cases in which a Bulgarian citizen should proceed to extract documents for identification, replacement and so on. But I'll tell you so you know them. One of these cases is changing to a permanent address. However, there is also a current address in the Civil Registration Act, which does not, however, involve you with the obligation to change or change your personal documents. From then on, the second sentence of your proposed new para is very interesting. 2 in art. 18. I'll read it to you, colleagues, to make it clear to you and to Mr. Iliev himself. What is the new para he has proposed? 2 of art. 18? By way of exception, Bulgarian citizens can submit applications, I stress, to submit applications for issuing identity documents and without a permanent address. And now we have the interesting sentence two: in this case the applications are lodged in the municipality. Dear Mr. Iliev, if you and your colleagues from Party DPS and DOT had bothered to read art. 2 of the same Law, you would know who are the institutions that are entitled to issue documents of identity. And since you haven't read it, I'm going to do the hard work of giving you a short teaching lecture. These are: Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Transport, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Defence in the envisaged cases. These are the institutions that have the right to issue personal documents. And now, note, from now on, what a legislative precedent should we set, honourable Members, to apply to the municipality concerned to issue you personal documents. How, under which law, as you do not even propose to change art. 2, give such powers to the municipalities? Tell me, how can we accept this thoughtless, stupid law, stupid proposals? We're moving on. This is where we get into the relevant contradictions. In this case, the applications are submitted to the municipality in which the citizen has been registered in the last five years.............................................................. we start training again. Once the citizen in this municipality has been registered, it means that he has at least a permanent address. This means that he had to comply with his law and legal obligation after having a permanent address, within a month to go to the respective department of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate of Bulgarian Identity Documents and to submit his application for a permanent address, on the basis of which these personal documents will be taken out to him. That is, if the person has a permanent address, it means that he should have followed the Law and already have an ID. I'm asking you, what then requires this person to remove new personal documents, since there is no circumstance in changing a permanent address? And now we're getting to the core of this thin moment. Since, honourable Members, in case you have not forgotten, we have made changes to the Civil Registration Act, through which we have amended the municipalities to carry out checks of the type of city of Burgas, the district of Medden Rudnik. ==Biography========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================= And now here, in a coup d'état of the Constitution, all of a sudden, these people of lawbreakers, as they are, you see, are becoming illegitimate citizens, wronged citizens. I ask you, honourable Members: who has forbidden these citizens to move freely in Bulgaria, to go as any normal Bulgarian citizen to rent a place on the basis of this rental contract, as we have made changes to the Law on Civil Registration, to receive the appropriate address for permanent registration on the basis of which to get personal documents? Who's stopping him? Nobody. However, he is prevented by the political mafia strata that wants to use it for relevant political purposes, i.e. to redirect certain marginal groups to certain areas and, if you bother to review the elections, you will see some marginal groups moving from one end of Bulgaria to the other in certain electoral areas where they never existed. And since there was already a violation of the Civil Registration Act, which changes you tried to do and, of course, again with your vicious internal subtext political beliefs, they were not accepted... That's your goal. After we have made an effort here, most of the MPs, to amend the Civil Registration Act, to force municipalities to carry out checks, now by means of the Personal Documents Act, the honourable gentlemen are trying to return 300, 400, that even 1,000 people to one address! This is the text that you are inserted by changing art. 18, introduction of a new para. 2. But it's not gonna happen! And take the law, learn it, at least don't embarrass yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u78	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u79	I would like to make a few clarification to the honourable Members because some people are blabbering nonsense from the parliamentary tribune. Of course, after a child is 14 years old, he is registered at the address of the parents, but if he is regular and legitimate. The other bullshit that's being said is that the application is being submitted to the municipality. The idea is exactly that in the municipality to have a file. Where is the address registration of every Bulgarian citizen? It's the territory of the community! And when he went to the Home Office to get his ID, he gave the address to the respective community. The idea as a whole is for these registrations and separate files to be not in the Ministry of Interior, but where they belong in the municipality. I am beginning to be ashamed of my previous colleague for being with him as a colleague in the National Assembly..................... [[Radio to the right: "Oooh! "]] And as for the fact that our Draft Law is not going to be adopted by the DPS Parliamentary Group, we are more and more convinced and we are already convinced of this because we see the strong certification between you. But the pity is that very soon it will be thrown out of this government as a centrifuge because the Movement for Rights and Freedoms introduces bills that are in the interest of the entire Bulgarian society, not bills that only have private, individual or lobbying interests. This Law enables many, thousands of Bulgarian citizens to be genuinely legitimate in society. What has been said about who forbids them to travel, no one forbids them to travel, of course. But without an I.D., he has no right to travel, because when he's stopped somewhere during the trip, he has to introduce himself. So it was absolutely a bunch of bullshit that I didn't take seriously. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u80	Thank you. - What's the line? [[National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov wants the floor.]] Your name wasn't mentioned! Mr. Bajraktarov, you give me the opportunity to explain when I hold the meetings, I give a personal explanation, according to the Rules, only when the name of the MP is mentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u81	That's not true. It can be recognized.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u82	Whether it's true or not, I've had enough experience. The negotiators are n in number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u83	There's only one, only one, only one, is the one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u84	Who wants lines? If you want a line, please, Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the opportunity to reply. Here!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u85	There was only one, not n in number. One was before Mr. Iliev's speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u86	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u87	For a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u88	It's a personal explanation. Dear Mr. Chairman, I take the floor for a personal explanation, as the non-negotiable are not n in number, but only one. Insulting qualifications have been made with regard to the speaker. I'll still try to explain my personal explanation that what I said wasn't bullshit. I have quoted the specific provisions of the Law. I'm trying to explain again that the municipality has no authority to issue personal documents. This is regulated in art. 2 of the Law. In addition, the CITY Service exists, it is doing very well the work of issuing certificates. In addition, every citizen who is 14 years old is obliged to get his first ID card free of charge. The nonsense that are in quotes said by me are a citation of the Law, and does not mean that Mr. Iliev, since he has not bothered to read the Law, we should listen to these nonsense as his and the Party DPS proposals. I am sad that there are many good lawyers in the DPS who could at least give you these advices. So take it easy with the qualifications! The fact that many of the present are probably ashamed that they are with you MPs, as your place should be somewhere else, is another matter. Thank you. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u89	Dear colleagues, please! Don't sharpen the debate! Mr. Bayraktarov, you also used an expression that I paid attention to. You used the expression mafias. Please don't sharpen the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u90	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u91	Second line? [[Heckling]] Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u92	That wasn't a line. That was a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u93	That's what it is, I decide, the host decides. Second line, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u94	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the vice in this bill is still enshrined in the motives. According to the reasons of the importers, there were hundreds of examples on the territory of the country in different districts and municipalities that the local authorities unconstitutionally removed and wiped out the residential buildings in which Bulgarian citizens were accommodated and addressed, it is about gypsy illegal buildings. In the wake of this factology, the applicants are forced to search for an address for relatives and acquaintances, resulting in a single address of 200 people registered at the same address. This painting has nothing to do with the reality in Bulgaria. Absolutely nothing prevents anyone whose illegally built home or shack has been removed, to go out on free rent, to register as the Law requires, and on this basis to be able to obtain personal documents or change them. We don't understand what prevents people whose buildings have been destroyed unconstitutionally here writes to register at any other address in the municipality, for example at free rent, to file a declaration that they want a municipal residence and so on? It's just that there's a painting here, written like it's in Soros' power plants somewhere overseas. Such a picture in Bulgaria does not exist. The guilt that they are registered at 200.300 people seasonally, against elections, at the same address, imagine, has been transferred to the mayors. This cannot be accepted!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u95	Thank you. Third line? I won't. The hole is Mr. Iliev, after which there will be a break and we will continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u96	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u97	You will have the floor, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, many of these people are victims, and why should they go out for free rent when the state 30 years ago 40 years ago registered them as an address there? They have address registrations and these were residential buildings in which they were legally housed by the institutions of Bulgaria. Why do these people who are in trouble have to go for free rent when the municipality or the state has decided to remove the buildings they live in? So they stand absolutely in front of a deadlock. And not just for that! The creation of an address registration and identity card for every Bulgarian citizen is not only in his interest, but in the interest of the state, statehood, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior as a whole. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u99	Thank you. The way you're holding it, here you go. Mr. Angelov, before you use your right to procedure, I want to read to you art. 51, para. 1 that the word is requested by a place of hands or by a written request in advance. You have violated this Rule of Procedure. However, I compromise and give you the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u100	I couldn't figure out what I had broken, given that four times...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u101	You weren't in your place, Mr. Angelov! That's reason enough not to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u102	Then say no if that's what you think is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u103	I had a call not to strain the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Iliev has made insulting qualifications and lines, including talking about blabbering nonsense and so on several times, including how he is ashamed to be in a room with other MPs, including insulting qualifications, and you have not made any remark. I understand that you are partisans and you must have some function to protect your fellow parties, but you are currently President of the National Assembly and must be impartial. So I don't understand why you didn't comment on Mr. Iliev? The other thing that is in the way of conduct is very clear that when a representative of the people is recognized and wants a personal explanation, but it is clear that he recognized himself because one was the one who was speaking on this point, you did not give him the right to a personal explanation, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u105	Mr. Angelov, I think your note has no basis. If we weigh the words "stupidity" and "mafia," I think it would be harmful to the second expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u106	We don't have to draw them. You have to take action. Tow what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u107	My attitude towards such a language is the same, regardless of the party's belonging to the speaker. That's what I've always done. Besides, I'm forced to read you art. 57 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which states that a personal explanation within two minutes is given when a statement in plenary is affected personally or by name rather than suggestion. I don't admit suggestion. Thank you. Rest till 12:00, 10:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u108	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Break time's up. Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. We are in a debate mode regarding the First Voting of Bills for amendment and supplement of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. Are there any MPs willing to participate in the debate? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor to express my support to my colleagues and colleagues from the Reformation Block in relation to the two bills submitted by the Council of Ministers. One, obviously the shorter bill, concerns measures to counter terrorism. I think he's indisputable, and I suppose he'll get the support of the House. The other bill for me is the more important one, it is the more extensive one, and to a large extent it concerns e-government, as it implements the measures that were mentioned about about a month and a half ago when we commented on the Law on Electronic Identification and had to make changes to the relevant law, in this case in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The changes offered now are extremely important and provide that the so-called chip can be incorporated in Bulgarian personal documents, which enables both electronic signature and electronic identification of the person who owns the ID card. It is hardly necessary to say how important this is in order to effectively implement electronic governance and electronic remote voting in the way we have written it in the Election Code. The adoption of these changes will create massisation of each person to have an electronic identity and an electronic signature, of course, if that is what he wants. I suppose the vast majority of Bulgarian citizens will want it. In this way they will be able to communicate with the administration, whether state or municipal, and to vote electronically, I hope very soon they can vote remotely electronically, as well as to use a number of other services in this way, without having to go physically to one institution or another, municipality and so on. I think the bill is very important. I also think that we should put in a good word here about the efforts of the team of the Ministry of Interior, which prepared it very quickly and imported it perhaps a month after taking up the commitment. We have commented before that this is the way to implement these changes. I think the bill deserves support and we will support it. With regard to the last Bill, enough has been said on it. I am referring to the Bill submitted by Mr. Ilia Iliev, Mr. Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs from the DPS and no longer by the DPS. Colleagues, what is not said and what I am afraid of is that he will actually discriminate against all our conscientious compatriots who comply with the requirements of the Law and the civil registration and the Bulgarian personal documents have a permanent and present address and comply with the requirements of the Law. By introducing the so-called "service address" which, apart from not being clear, will also give many opportunities for abuse, will in practice allow some compact groups of people in our society who traditionally do not comply with the Law, to take advantage of this loophole in it, to enter into a service address in a municipality and then never the authorities of the Ministry of Interior or the judiciary, if necessary, to be able to find them and know where they are, as they will have written at a service address somewhere, and physically no one will know where they are. It seems to me that such a thing is not only unreasonable, but it is even dangerous and cannot be supported. To me, they are clearly the political motives that importers had by importing this bill. I even wonder why they didn't record directly that the registration in question at a business address is carried out in municipalities where the mayors are, for example, on DPS!? Then things would have been very clear. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u110	- What's the line? Mr. Iliya Iliev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u111	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I cannot understand why so many colleagues do not want to think about this problem that is standing. Two hundred or three hundred people registered in a house with 2-3 rooms is not more dangerous, colleague Slavov? Isn't it better to register them and have a file for them than not know how much they're there, where they're from, what they're doing, are they there, aren't they there?! The idea is to create files by municipalities and the municipality to control these people, their residence: where they are, how to find them, how to find them when the authorities of the Ministry of Interior need contact with them. I am impressed that a few colleagues come out here and say: "We support the two bills of the Council of Ministers, and the other one we do not support because it is for the Gypsies. It is not just for the Gypsies, the Bill, because the problem is for the whole society. Open your mind wider! Let's think pò stately, honourable colleagues! This Law is neither for gypsies nor for voices! This change concerns a facility: all institutions in Bulgaria to have normal access and normal communication with people registered 200 300 people at one address. The idea of creating these files should be precisely with the help of the municipality, because the address registration is by municipalities. You're talking about danger and you think it's about votes. Read in more detail, see the motives. Look now at the Act in force and judge it a little more clearly, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u112	Second line? There aren't any. A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u113	Mr. Iliev, it is not so difficult to read carefully your Bill because it is from one paragraph, so it is read relatively quickly and does not take much time. You said that he was almost perceived as a law for gypsies. I thought those were the words you used. No, I personally, and I think that a large part of my colleagues in the Chamber see it as a law against the Bulgarian citizens who comply with the Law. You, against the conscientious Bulgarian citizens, create a privilege for those who do not comply with the Law, do not register in the way the Law requires it at a permanent and current address, but introduce a privilege that will obviously benefit only from these compact masses of population to register at the so-called "service address" and then no one will ever be able to find them! They, by registering once at this official address, will then not be clear whether during the summer season they have gone to the skid row at the Sunny Beach, where tourism suffers and there are attacks against the property of tourists or to deal with other violations. There will be no physical opportunity, if necessary, for the Ministry of Interior to find them. They will practically be undetectable unless they themselves consider that they have any interest in going to the respective municipality, where they have registered at the service address in question and appear voluntarily. Otherwise, no one will know where they are. I can't imagine how you think the municipality in question would communicate with these people when they're practically not physically there?! They registered at the same address, but they're not there at all, but they live somewhere else. Tomorrow they can come to the outskirts of Sofia, make another illegal ghetto in one of the districts, stay there and deal with various violations. Then you still won't know that and you won't be able to establish it. These are dangerous changes and I suggest that we do not support them because they discriminate against the conscientious Bulgarian citizens who comply with the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u114	Any other MPs? Mr. Atalay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u115	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the applause as an act that, after reading this very short text, you do not want to assimilate it. Apparently reading is easy, but assimilation is difficult. Colleagues, you're looking at a bill we're trying to solve a state problem with. Is there any MP here today, among us, to tell us that there are no Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria, whether they are Gypsies, Turks and Bulgarians, without personal documents? Is there any of you here today to stand before us and say that there are no 200 or 300 registered people at one address?! Is there any of you today to come out here and say that the problem with the Gypsy minority is a real problem and is not only a problem of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms?! Why, then, Members of all the political forces sitting today in this National Assembly, do we not undertake to solve this problem?! We have provided you with one text, one Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Documents Act, by which we say that if you agree and accept this document, we will take the first step on which we will issue personal documents to people and will not leave them in this enchanted circle. What are we doing right now? We have health reform. You can't go to a health care facility without an I.D. because they don't register you. And thousands of people don't have IDs. You'll say they don't have IDs because they didn't pay their insurance. So how can they pay their insurance if they don't have IDs?! It is easy to go out and say that you are dying of grief because you are not a member of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, but it is difficult to assimilate and say: "Dear colleagues, there is a bill with certain texts on the basis of which solving the problem with those people who can interfere with tourists and I do not know who you are, we can register them. Even for national security. How many people will you tell me today from the services, there are unregistered and missing personal documents? And now you know where they are?! What are these people doing? We put aside the burkas and the rasos. Colleagues, this is about a very serious act. Pretend it's written by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Think of it as your text. Think of it as your problem. I still remember 1994, when the apartheid was ending in South Africa, then Dutchmen who left South Africa regretted not creating a middle class and had to leave the country and leave it in the hands of unregistered and illiterate people. Ignorance is also the duty of all our politicians who are in this Chamber today. It's very easy today to be a patriot, to go out and explain that some mass of people who care about them are living people, and we have certain obligations to these people, no matter where and how they live. If we have gaps in this Law, if there is no definition of official registration, please have the lawyers sit down and write it down. If you think we have a mistake and we haven't read the Ministry of Interior Act and we don't know who's registering where, you're seriously mistaken. Therefore, honourable Members, let us be at the height of what society expects of us. Let's start solving those problems that are getting deeper every day. There will come a time when we won't be able to do the same. Are you ready for this? If you are ready, support the Bill at first reading, give suggestions between first and second readings... how and how to improve these texts so that these people can register, know where they are, be able to go to hospitals, even if they go to school and start working and working. That's what this is about. Otherwise, your grief is very great. I can see that. But if you submit an application, we can also accept you in the DPS, colleague. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u116	Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u117	Dear Mr. Atalay, dear colleagues! It is not easy to be a patriot in Bulgaria. The poet said that among fools misunderstood is not easy to be a patriot in Bulgaria. Don't speculate on patriotism because you didn't confess it. Two, apartheid. Excuse me, but it is offensive for the 21st century in a country like Bulgaria, which has already declared that every slave who stepped on its territory is free, and to say that there is apartheid in Bulgaria... Maybe you're right in a way. The apartheid, however, is against normal Bulgarian citizens, you can look at the media from yesterday and today, which are the subject of raids, destruction of property, beatings, robbery, arbitrariness and violence by the same population that you called minority. Apropo, on the Bulgarian Constitution there are no minorities and there are individual human rights. Let's not speculate on this subject. I expect the Bulgarian Parliament and you, since you are so concerned as a parliamentary group for this population, to finally open up the debate on how to integrate this population, rather than thinking about ways to facilitate the purchase of the votes of this population through control. What is happening in Bulgaria is not in any normal, even African country. What happens every day with our elderly parents is the grandmothers and grandfathers in the villages and small settlements - robbery, violence, battery. Get the media. Enough heartbreaking talk about things that aim only to facilitate the mechanism for buying this gypsy vote. And nothing more! There are problems, but the problem is that this population should go to school, learn, learn that there are rights, but also obligations that foreign property is inviolable, that foreign life has value. You can't be beaten for three plums like the case of the boy in Rousse yesterday. These are the real problems facing this population. Everything else is a funny cry. I'm quoting the class again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u118	Second line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u119	Thank you, Madam President. I will continue the line of colleague Karakachanov. Mr. Atalay, as colleague Karakachanov said, every Bulgarian citizen other than rights has obligations. However, when you are trying through the Personal Documents Act to circumvent the Law on Civil Registration, I will again repeat that you are lawbreakers to declare them in illegal persons for the simple reason that these same persons have violated the Law... This isn't about the Homeland Security Act. It is about the Law on Personal Documents and the Law on Civil Registration. A citizen has the relevant obligations under this Law to obtain an identity document. This document at the age of 14 shall be issued free of charge. It is issued on the basis of a certificate of acquired permanent address. I repeat the permanent address, which is issued by the City Office to the respective municipality. What you want us to do right now is to introduce the concept of a service address and at some point target marginal groups of 200, 300, 500 people to receive this business address, which will be the address of the respective municipality, that is what you want to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u120	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, in order to resolve this problem, you must support the Bill of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear colleagues, I expected you to come out and replicate me with the idea that you have found a solution to this problem. You tried on the basis of hatred against Gypsies and Turks to become patriots again. If you want patriotism, come to the DPS, we'll teach you. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u122	Any other MPs for speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 454 01 54, submitted by Ilija Iliev and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 14 against 61, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u123	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a re-vote, as some Members have failed to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u124	It's a re-vote. They voted 107 MPs: 15 against 66, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 502 01 48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 June 2015. Vote 109 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents, No 602 01 21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 April 2016. Vote 98 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LOCAL LOCKS. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will be proposed to us by the President of the Commission Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. President, before presenting the report, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva Ruseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u126	We vote, fellow Members, this proposal. Vote 85 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u127	Madam President, I would like to make it clear that, on the next point, she will also be a guest. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016. At its meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry, Mrs. Vergenia Micheva, Deputy Minister and Mrs. Juliana Cholpanova, State Expert at the Department of Law. The bill was presented by Mrs. Micheva, who pointed out that it aims to update the legislation of the Institute of Special Bet, overcome ambiguities and gaps in the Law, as well as to achieve unity and inconclusiveness in its provisions. The draft proposes the transition of the Central Register of Special Bets by the Minister of Justice to the Registry Agency, thereby ensuring a comprehensive electronicisation of the register of Special Bets and Publicity of the entered and announced circumstances, providing for the possibility to submit applications for registration on paper and electronic basis. The adoption of the changes is expected to contribute to reducing the administrative burden and saving a significant organisational and financial resource while ensuring public and free access to information in the register via the Internet. The bill provides for the entry of the special pledge contract to have a constitutional effect, thus being uniform to that of mortgages; the extension of the circle of entities entitled to be pledgeers; measures creating an inability for the unscrupulous pledgeer to divert and dispose of the impractical property. The relationship between creditors, their rights in the execution of the pledged property, as well as the relationships with those competing in the enforcement under the PDC and the PDK rights of third parties shall be fully and clearly regulated. The rules governing a bet of a claim, a pledge of a security and a bet of a set shall be revised by taking the approach of simplifying the regime of entering the contract and ensuring speed and quality realization of the creditor's rights. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov and Dimitar Delchev. Mr. Kirilov welcomed the Bill and reminded the MPs that a preliminary hearing was held on the submitted Bill and was presented to the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs. In response to Mr. Dimitar Delchev's question Mrs. Micheva pointed out that the new provisions provide for a ban on the disposal of the immovable property without the consent of the first creditor, thus aiming to create legal certainty in the use of the institute. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u128	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u129	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016. At a meeting held on 16 June 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016. The bill was presented by Mrs. Vergenia Micheva "Deputy Minister of Justice." The proposed Bill aims at overcoming ambiguities and gaps in the Law relating to the application of specific provisions, achieving unity and non-controversiality of the arrangements, establishing guarantees by the State for the legal conduct of the processes and restoring the trust of citizens and businesses in the exercise of the right of negotiation and business initiative. Specific amendments and additions shall refer to the following: Transfer of the activities of the administration of the Central Register of Special Bets to the Registry Agency and the overall electronicisation of the register of Special Bets; Turning the register of special bets into a publicly available database of the circumstances recorded and the acts announced; Improvement of the legal framework of the legal institute. Special requirements concerning the qualification of the person who may be a depositary. The effect of the proposed changes is proportionate to saving costs related to the organizational and human resources, reducing administrative burdens, increasing the level of legal certainty for pawns and pledges, protecting and guaranteeing their rights and interests, as well as those of third parties, legitimately running the processes. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance agreed on the opinion that it should be supported in full. A vote was held which ended with the following results: with 17 votes in favour, without abstentions and abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Special Bets, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Will there be an importer's opinion? No, there won't be. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. Debates closed. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016. Dear colleagues, we are voting. They voted 86 MPs: 82, none, abstention 4. The bill was passed in the first vote. The next bill on the agenda of the Forty-third National Assembly is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPENSATION OF THE LAW FOR HELP AND FINANCIAL COMPENSATION OF CRIMES. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. Adopted in the first vote on 2 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015, adopted on the first vote on 2 March 2016. "Renewal and Supplement to the Assistance and Financial Compensation Act for Victims of Crime." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u132	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission on the name of the Law and on § 1. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u133	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The authorities of the Ministry of Interior, investigators and organisations for support for victims shall immediately inform the victims or persons under art. 3, para. 2 for: (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." their access to medical care, to organisations to which they can turn for free psychological assistance and support, as well as to any kind of specialised assistance they may receive; (c) a new item shall be created. 4. "4." the authorities to which an alert may be made in breach of their rights by the competent authority acting in criminal proceedings; (d) the so-called t. 4-8 becomes ct, respectively. 5-9. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The monitoring prosecutor in the course of pre-trial proceedings shall monitor the performance of the duties of the investigating authorities to provide the information under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting on the text of an importer supported by the Commission in § 2. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Paragraph 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. .................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 6a and Art. 6a. (1) In the case of notification under art. 6, para. 1 the competent authorities shall take into account the condition of the victims or persons referred to in Article 1. 3, para. 2, including their age. (2) The notification shall be made orally and in writing by means of a model form, in a language which the victims or persons under art. 3, para. 2 understand. (3) A report shall be drawn up for the notification in a sample, in duplicate, which shall be registered according to the body or body established in the relevant art. 6, para. 1 row. One copy of the protocol and the form under para. 2 shall be served on the victim or on the persons referred to in Article 2. 3, para. 2. Art. 6b. The overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Member States of the European Union shall inform in writing the Bulgarian citizens who are present and who are victims of crimes in the territory of the host State, as well as the persons under art. 3, para. 2 At their request, for the competent authorities in that country, to which they may address the order for receiving support and financial compensation, the possibility under art. 19th para. 1 as well as the terms and conditions for obtaining the relevant type of support under art. 8 " 11" in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u136	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We vote on the text of the importer for § 3 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 3 is finally added according to the order of the Law on Legal Aid. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The forms of support under para. 1, t. 2 and 4 shall be made available subject to the principle of confidentiality prior to the initiation of criminal proceedings, during or within an appropriate period after the completion of criminal proceedings according to the needs of the victims and the persons referred to in Article. 3, para. 2. 3. The creation of para. 4. If necessary, the free psychological consultation and assistance under para. 1, t. 2 shall also be made available after the decision under art. 24................................................................... The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 1 Finally, the needs of the victim and his psychological condition are added. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The activities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 1 shall be financed by the Ministry of Justice and the procedure for the selection of organisations for support for victims, the conditions and arrangements for financing, reporting and control of their activities shall be laid down by the rules on the application of the law subject to State aid rules. 3. Allinea 3 is canceled. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 a comma is finally placed and added to the provision of information on the risk of secondary and repeated victimisation, intimidation or revenge, and in the provision of advice on preventing them. 2. The creation of para. 3: For the purpose of this Decision, the Member States shall ensure that victims of criminal offences who are subject to the immediate risk of secondary and repeated victimisation, intimidation and revenge are placed in shelter or other appropriate temporary accommodation. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The creation of para. 1: The victims of crimes shall be entitled to one-off financial compensation under the terms and conditions of this law. 2. So far, text becomes para. 2 and in it: (a) A new item shall be created. 2: "2." the settlement agreement in pre-trial proceedings; b) Previous t. 2 and 3 become ct, respectively. 3 and 4. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... Article 13 is amended as follows: Art. 13. (1) The financial compensation shall be expressed in the provision by the State of a monetary amount, the maximum amount thereof per person under art. 3, para. 1 or for the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 2 can not exceed 10 000 leva. (2) Where the financial compensation is granted for the maintenance of persons under art. 3, para. 2, under the age of 18 years, the amount for each person is up to 10 000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u138	Statements, honourable colleagues. I can't see. We vote on the import text for paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and a new § 10 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Moving on to § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u139	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The request for financial compensation shall be submitted to the National Council within one year of the entry into force of the act under art. 12, para. 2. The application may also be submitted by means of an organization to support victims or by means of the district governor at the current address of the victim. 2. In para. 4 the words supplied to "supplied to" shall be replaced by "supplied through" and "supplied to" shall be replaced by "supplied through." 3. A new para is being created. 5. Where the application is submitted through an organization for support for victims, it shall be sent to the National Council within 7 days of receipt. 4. Previously on AMC's... 5 and 6 become respectively. 6 and 7 and are amended as follows: Where the request for financial compensation is not lodged within the period laid down in para. 3, the victim or the persons referred to in Article 3. 3, para. 2 provide a written declaration of the reasons and circumstances for non-compliance. The National Council shall allow or refuse to examine the application for which it is motivated. (7) The application shall be accompanied by certified copies of the documents certifying the particulars specified therein, including a declaration on a sample by the victim or by the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 2 for the fact of art. 15, para. 1, t. 4. 5. The creation of para. 8. Where the victim is a national of another Member State of the European Union, for the establishment of the basis under art. 15, para. 1, t. 1 The National Council may request assistance from the competent authorities of the Member State whose citizen is the victim. 6. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 9 and amended as follows: The National Council shall provide the victim, the district governor and the organization for support for victims when the request has been received through them, information on a contact person at the Ministry of Justice, a document for receipt of the request and the period of delivery thereof. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words "sevenths of "successful members" shall be added. 2. A new para is being created. 3: In the order of para. 2 alternate members shall also be appointed to replace permanent members in their absence. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21, t. 2 after the words................................................................................................ 6a, para. 2 and 3 of the declaration referred to in art. 18, para. The following points are inserted after point 7 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The request for financial compensation shall be dealt with within one month from the date of their receipt. If necessary, that period may be extended to three months. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: A copy of the decision shall be sent immediately to the victim and to the district governor or to the victim support organisation when the request for financial compensation has been received through them. 3. In para. 7 words.............................................................................. 12, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u140	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting § 10 by importer, which becomes § 11, respectively § 11, which becomes 12, 15 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 17, all supported by the Commission, in the version of the Commission report. Abort the vote. I'm sorry, I feel like... Paragraph 10, which becomes Paragraph 11, which becomes § 12, § 12, which becomes § 13 I did not read, a new § 14, § 13, which becomes § 15, § 14, which becomes § 16, and § 15, which becomes § 17. I missed a page. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u142	Statements, coworkers? I won't. We vote on the proposal of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 18 on the Commission report, and to reject § 17. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u143	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u144	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 18 which, in the version of the Commission, becomes 19 and rejects § 19 by the Commission. They voted 77 MPs, 77, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u145	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. The additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. The name is amended as follows: 2. Paragraph 1a is inserted: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. This Law introduces the requirements of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA (OJ L 315/57, 14 November 2012.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. Within three months of the promulgation of this Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The applications for financial compensation submitted until the entry into force of this Law shall be dealt with under the current terms and conditions. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission proposes the following version of § 23: ..................................................... Within two months of the promulgation of this Law, the National Council shall draw up and make available to the Minister of Justice for validating the forms and the minutes under art. 6a, para. 2 and 3 and the declaration referred to in Article 2. 18, para. 7. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission proposes the following version of § 24: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force three months after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 21 and § 23, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Speeches, honourable colleagues? I can't see. We are voting for the text of the importer in the version of the Commission's report on § 20, the proposal of the importer supported by the Commission, on the move and conclusion of the provisions, the proposal of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 21, 22, the non-supported version of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 23 and 24. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation of Victims of Crime was adopted at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE INTERNAL AUDIT IN THE PUBLIC. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 15 September 2015, adopted in the first vote on 1 March 2016. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u147	Mr. Chairman, first of all I ask for admission to the Chamber of Representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Fezi Bekir, Deputy Minister, and Svilena Simeonova, Director of Internal Control Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u148	Colleagues, we're voting access to the House. Vote 82 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Mrs. Yordanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u149	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the Public Sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015 and adopted at the first vote on 1 March 2016. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Act for Internal Audit in the Public Sector (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u150	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for the name of the Law. Vote 68 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u151	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 words with internal audit standards shall be replaced by the international professional practice standards of internal audit and shall be replaced by the international professional practice standards of internal audit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u152	Statements, coworkers? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 and the text of the importer for § 1, which, by the wording of the Commission, becomes § 2. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u153	Paragraph 2. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Gorov: In § 2, in the new content of art. 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 2, c. 2 after the word "supposed" a comma is placed and the Bulgarian National Bank (Bulgarian National Bank) is added. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports it in general under point 1. 2. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova: In § 2, art. 12 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 2, p. 2 after the words The Commission does not support the proposal referred to in point (a) and supports it under point (b). The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2 which shall become §3: .................................................. Article 12 is amended as follows: Art. 12. (1) The internal audit in the public sector shall be carried out by an internal audit unit established within the organisation's structure, which shall be directly subordinate to the head of the organisation or to the collective management body. The unit consists of internal auditors who are employees of the organisation, one of whom is head. (2) The Internal Audit Unit shall be established in: 1. The administration of the President, the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers, the ministries, the National Insurance Institute, the National Health Insurance Fund and the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The Supreme Judicial Council and the Court of Auditors; 3. municipalities whose budget exceeds 10 million lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. other organisations whose heads are chief authorising officers and their budget exceeds 10 million. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5. the organisations listed in the Annex, whose heads are secondary authorising officers; 6. commercial companies, including medical establishments, with more than 50 percent state and/or municipal capital participation and with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. for each of the last three years; 7. the trading companies whose capital is owned by the companies under point 7. 6 with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. for each of the last three years; 8. state enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. for each of the last three years. (3) A common internal audit unit may be established in coordination with the Minister of Finance in a municipality on the basis of an agreement concluded between two or more municipalities which are neighbouring or falling within one administrative area and the budget of each of them shall not exceed 10 million. leva. This unit shall carry out internal audit activities in the municipalities under the Agreement. (4) By written agreement of the Minister of Finance on the basis of a reasoned proposal of the authorising officer concerned, an internal audit unit may be established in other organisations. (5) Outside the cases under para. 2, 3 and 4 Internal Audit activities may be carried out by persons who are not employees of the organisation concerned and meet the requirements of art. 21, para. 1. (6) Internal Audit Unit for Commercial Companies with State and/or Municipal Participation in Capital and in State Enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law, which are outside the mentioned in para. 2, p. 6-8, can be created by decision of their management bodies. (7) Where the budget, respectively the annual turnover of the organizations under para. 2, p. 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 reduces below 10 million. lv. for two consecutive reporting periods, the internal audit unit shall not be closed, after which the competent authority concerned shall adopt a decision on the functioning of the internal audit. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u154	That's it. Dear colleagues, speeches? There are two unsupported proposals? I can't see. First, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal on this. 1 of MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Gorov. Vote 80 MPs: 30, against 27, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's unsupported proposal under the letter of the Members of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. They voted 73 MPs: 36, against 8, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 2, which becomes § 3, in the version of the Commission report, and § 3, which becomes § 4. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u155	According to § 4 the proposal from the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Gorov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Stoyanova and Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 4 words are not included: interns are replaced by interns.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u156	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 4 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 in the version of the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 71 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u157	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u158	There are no speeches. Anblock, we vote paragraphs 5 and 6 by importer, which become paragraphs 6 and 7 respectively. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u159	According to § 7 the proposal from the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev, Dimitar Gorov: In § 7, in the new content of art. 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in the first sentence, at the end of the text, a comma shall be placed after the word (b) a third sentence shall be created: the Managing Authority and the members of the management bodies of the organisation shall not be members of the audit committee. 2. in para. 2, c. 1 et c. 2 the words "the Minister of Finance" shall be replaced by "the Council of Ministers." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Rumen Gechev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 18 is amended as follows: Art. 18. (1) In the ministries, in the municipalities with internal audit units and in the State Fund, a Paying Agency must be established, audit committees consisting of 3 to 5 members, including a chairman, at least two thirds of them being external to the organisation. Members of the audit committees shall: 1. have acquired educational-qualification degree "Master"; 2. have at least 5 years in the field of management and control, internal or external audit; 3. do not participate in more than two audit committees. (2) The composition of the audit committees shall be determined after the procedure under the ordinance under para. 11 for a period of 3 years as follows: 1. in the ministries by the respective minister in agreement with the Minister of Finance; 2. in the Ministry of Finance by the Minister of Finance; 3. in the municipalities of the municipal councils; 4. in the State Fund............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (3) The municipalities shall send annually to the Minister of Finance information on the composition of the audit committees. (4) In organizations other than those under para. 1 where an internal audit unit is established, audit committees may be set up by decision of the management of the organisation. (5) The Audit Committee shall have the following powers: 1. coordinate the status and number of the internal audit unit, strategic and annual internal audit activities plans; 2. examine and adopt by decision the annual report on the internal audit activity; 3. shall be informed as necessary and give opinions on audit reports on audit commitments carried out and on all relevant issues relating to internal audit in the organisation concerned; 4. monitor the risk management process in the organisation and give opinions with recommendations for its improvement; 5. interact with the external auditors; 6. monitor the processes of financial reporting in the organization and give opinions with recommendations for their improvement; 7. monitor the effectiveness of internal control systems in the organization and give opinions with recommendations for their improvement. (6) The Audit Committee shall meet at least once every two months when more than half of its members are present. (7) The decisions and opinions of the Audit Committee shall be taken by a majority of more than half of its members. The Committee shall not take decisions in absentia. Abstention shall not be allowed. (8) The opinions of the Audit Committee under para. 5 t. 3, 4, 6 and 7 shall be sent to the head of the organisation that implements the recommendations given therein. In the event of failure to comply with the recommendations by the Head of Organisation and disagreement with the status of the Internal Audit Unit and strategic and annual internal audit activity plans, the Audit Committee shall send information to the Minister of Finance. (9) Members of the Audit Committee shall receive remuneration for participation in the meetings of the Audit Committee, equal to half a minimum wage, but not more than one minimum salary per month. (10) The Audit Committee shall be chaired by the Chair, who shall organise and convene the meetings of the Committee. (11) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a regulation on the procedure for determining the composition and activity of audit committees in public sector organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u160	Statements? Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments to the Internal Audit Act make a significant step towards ensuring the independence of the internal audit activities, providing for the compulsory establishment of the In most countries, the audit committees are like civil councils built exclusively by individuals external to the organization. In another part of the countries, the audit committees are composed of external persons and officials in the administration. However, nowhere will the leaders of the administration participate in the audit committees, because if they participate, there will be no independence of the body I just told you about. That is why we have made this proposal, which is incomprehensible to me why the working group did not accept it, namely to make it explicitly stated that the heads and members of the management bodies of the organisations cannot be members of the Audit Committee. I think this is quite reasonable and reasonable and I urge you to support it as a proposal. The other part of the proposal, which is by para. 1. We accept that the Audit Committee may be from 3 to 5 and not up to 7, but we believe that it is correct and that at least one of the persons who are in the Audit Committee needs to be a certified internal auditor. Understandably, since they will engage in, watch and accept the work of the internal audit, have a person, at least one, who knows this specific and very important activity. In relation to para. 2. I understand the concerns of my fellow Members, but I believe that the proposal we are making to replace the Minister of Finance with the Council of Ministers, you understand that there is only one objective for the independence of the Internal Audit Authority, and that is why we have made this proposal. But if it is not accepted, then, Madam President, I propose that we vote them separately. .................................................................................. 1 separately, para. Two, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u162	Any lines to Mr. Turnover? Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Turnovalyski's procedural proposal what he has done, Mr. Gechev and Mr. Gorov's proposal for changes in two paragraphs. They are two points in fact the two points to vote separately. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Turnovalysky's proposal. Vote 75 MPs: 37 against 21 abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Turnovalyski and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 75 MPs: 19 against 41, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 8 in the version and numbering of the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 72 against 8, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u163	Proposal of the MP Georgi Turnovaliski, Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Gorov: "Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u164	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u165	Madam President, colleagues! Our proposal is to reject this paragraph in order to remain the old version of the text, namely: we believe that the powers of the Minister of Finance to give consent on all appointments, exemptions, changes to all auditors in the country are unjustified. The current text said that only for the heads of audit units consents the Minister of Finance. Moreover, given the independence of municipal councils, this authorisation, which the Minister of Finance must grant for the appointment of the audit committees and for directors, and for auditors, is contrary to the Local Government Act. I think it's resonant to remain the old text. He was better. That is also the opinion of the Court of Auditors. If you want, consider them, not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u166	A line to Mr. Turnover? I won't. Any other MPs for a statement? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the gentlemen Turnovalyski, Gechev and Gorov. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 24, against 39, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal in favour of § 8 by importer, which shall become § 9 by the report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 83 MPs: 74 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u167	Paragraphs 9 and 10 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 9 and 10 which become paragraphs 10 and 11 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u168	Anblok, we vote both paragraphs. They voted 84 MPs: 83 against 1, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u169	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 words The internal audit standards shall be replaced by the international professional practice standards of the internal audit and shall be replaced by the national standards of the internal audit. Paragraphs 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 by importer are supported by the Commission and become paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u170	Statements on the proposal for a new § 12 and paragraphs to 17 including on the Commission report are there? I won't. We vote paragraphs with the number of 12 new ones, in the version of the Commission, up to paragraph 17 inclusive. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u171	According to § 16 of the importer there is a proposal of the MPs Turnovalyski, Gechev and Gorov - § 16 is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u172	Statements? I won't. I'm voting on Mr. Turnovallisky's proposal and a group. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 86 MPs: 22, against 40, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We vote on § 16 by importer, adopted entirely by the Commission with a new numbering - § 18 on the report. Vote 76 MPs: 72 against 4, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u173	Under Paragraph 17, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 2 is amended as The Strategic Plan, as well as its changes, shall be agreed by the Audit Committee or the relevant collective management body and shall be validated by the Head of Organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u174	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 19 on the Commission report. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u175	Under § 18, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1.Alinea 3 is canceled. 2.Alinea 4 is amended as follows: The annual plan as well as the changes to it shall be agreed by the Audit Committee or the relevant collective management body and validated by the Director of the Organisation. 3.Create para. 5. The Strategic and Annual Internal Audit Activity Plan in the Municipalities shall be presented for information to the municipal councils.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u176	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 20 in the numbering and editing of the report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u177	Paragraphs 19, 20, 21 and 22 by importer are supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 21 to 24 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u178	Statements? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 19 to 22 by importer, which become paragraphs 21 to 24 respectively, including on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u179	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 2 the word "Presents" shall be replaced by "Presents" after the words "the Audit Committee" and the words "by art." 18, if one is formed, shall be replaced by either the relevant collective management body and shall be replaced by the relevant collective management body. 2.Alinea 4 is amended as follows: The Head of the Internal Audit Unit of an organisation whose head is a senior authorising officer with a budget, with the exception of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Court of Auditors, shall draw up and submit a summary annual report to the Head of the Organisation by 28 February of the following year. The summary report shall contain information from the annual reports of the internal audit units of the minor authorising officers, companies and state-owned enterprises of the organisation. 3. In para. 5 the words "February 28" shall be replaced by the words "March 10th." 4. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission 5. The creation of para. 7. The internal audit of the companies and of the state enterprises under art. 12, para. 2, p. 6-8 shall draw up an annual internal audit activity report which shall be sent to the internal audit unit of the relevant authority exercising ownership rights by 31 January of the following year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u180	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 25 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 77 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u181	Under § 24, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for the paragraph which shall become § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u182	We vote. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u183	According to § 25 there is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Gorov § 25 dropped out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 25, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. 2 is created t. 3: "3." provide guidance for priority objectives and audit areas in the planning of internal audit activities, with the exception of the Supreme Judicial Council and the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u184	Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal by colleagues Turnovalyski, Gechev and Gorov... the Commission does not support it. Vote 77 MPs: 18, against 38, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 27 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 74 against 5, no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 29. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 after the words the order is added to the terms and a comma is placed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The following amendments and additions shall be made to Paragraph 1: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 words under art. The following points are inserted after point 14 2. They're creating a t. 7 and 8: "7." The total amount of revenue, including from the financed, is the annual financial statement. 8. The International Standards for Professional Practice in Internal Audit are the International Standards for Professional Practice in Internal Audit issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Altamonte Springs, Florida, USA and their translation into Bulgarian published by the Institute of Internal Auditors in Bulgaria. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u186	Statements under paragraphs 28 to 33 on the Commission report? I won't. We vote on these paragraphs. Vote 77 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 4. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u187	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 31, which becomes § 34, by proposing the words "art." 18, para. For the purposes of this Annex, the following definitions shall apply: 18, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u188	We vote on the name of the division and § 31 by importer, which becomes § 34 by the amended version report. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u189	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 32 and proposes to be rejected, as the change was made with the IDE of the Public Finance Act, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 43 of 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u190	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously, this proposal is also accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u191	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova for the creation of a new § 33. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create § 35: .............................................................................. In the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 22 is amended as follows: Art. 22. (1) The internal audit of the Bulgarian National Bank shall be carried out by an internal audit unit led by a Chief Auditor. (2) The internal audit of the Bulgarian National Bank shall be carried out in accordance with international standards of professional practice in internal audit, the Code of Ethics of the Internal Auditors, the Rules of the Committee of the Internal Auditors of the European System of Central Banks and adopted by the Management Board of the Bulgarian National Bank. (3) The objectives, powers, responsibilities, plan and report on the activities of the internal audit of the Bulgarian National Bank shall be adopted by the Management Board. (4) The Chief Auditor and the auditors of the Internal Audit Unit shall meet the following requirements: 1. to be capable persons; 2. not to be convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature and not to be deprived of the right to take up the position concerned; 3. to have completed higher education and acquired educational-qualification degree 4. hold an internal public sector auditor certificate issued by the Minister of Finance and/or internationally recognised audit and accounting certificate. 2. Paragraph 1b shall be inserted in the Additional Provisions: .................................................................................. (Certified Internal Auditor - CIA), Certified Financial Services Auditor (CFSA) issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors (Institute of Internal Auditors) (Institute of Internal Auditors) (Institute of Internal Auditing System and Control Association); Certified Public Account Holder (CISA) issued by the Accredited Public Account (Certified Public Accountant - CPA) Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev under the order of art. 80, para. 4, item 2 of Sub-Support to create § 36. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. Paragraph 35, t. 1 concerning Art. 22, para. 4 shall enter into force from 1 April 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-22.u192	Statements on proposals for two additional paragraphs? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 35 and 36 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. That's what we're done with for the day. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with an opening hour of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
