ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members, in the many draft decisions yesterday for changes in the composition of permanent committees, a draft decision in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media has been missed. Therefore, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of your Rules I propose that, as the first item in today's plenary session, we discuss and adopt this decision in order to have clarity on the composition of the committees. I would like your attention to the inclusion of the Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Culture and Media as the first item for today. Please vote. Vote 139 MPs: 134 against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Before we start with the agenda, a few messages. By letter No 654-00-12 of 20 January 2016, the People's Representative Georgi Gokov of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria stated that he withdrew his signature under a bill amending the Labour Code, No 654-01-2, as of 15 January 2016. Yesterday, on 20 January 2016, a joint draft of the Draft Laws amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information adopted on the first vote on 3 December 2015. The draft was drawn up by the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The communication shall be made with a view to the beginning of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Moving on to the agenda: PROJECT OF A CHANGE DECISION IN THE COMMISSION'S CULTURE AND MEDIA COMPOSITION. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 in relation to art. 14, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Hussein Hassan Hafuzov as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media. Please vote. Voting 137 MPs: 132, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Next, the discussion and vote on: PROJECT FOR DECISION ON OCTOBER 25, 2015 NATIONAL REFERENDUM. Importer of the Committee on Legal Affairs. There's been a report with the draft decision. Please, Mr. Kirilov. Before that procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal that the debate on the results of the national referendum be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian Radio. I believe that the fact that two and a half million Bulgarians decided to participate in this referendum shows the interest of the public in this referendum. I think it's important and nice to make them empathetic in this process. Moreover, at a meeting of the Legal Committee, the majority seemed to support the possible introduction of an electronic vote. I think it is good to show the public that good things are happening in this House. Let's give them a chance to see it live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u3	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 142 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 58. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the National Television cameras and the National Radio microphones. Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a discussion of the national referendum held on 25 October 2015, on the basis of art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government At its meeting held on 19 January 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the national referendum held on 25 October 2015, on the basis of art. 23, para. 3 in relation to Art. 52 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. The meeting was attended by Ms. Petya Tyankova, Secretary for Legal Affairs, and Mrs. Rumyana Kolarova, Secretary for Education, Science and Civil Society at the Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Initiative Committee "Vote without Borders": Mrs. Antoaneta Tsoneva, Mr. Anton Antonov, Mr. Ivaylo Mirchev, Mr. Yordan Zlatev and Mr. Georgi Iliev. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Danail Kirilov presented to the National Assembly on 13 November 2015 the decision No 2855 NR of 20 October 2015 of the Central Election Commission on the announcement of the results of the vote in the national referendum held on 25 October 2015. In the national referendum, a question was asked: Do you support being able to vote remotely by electronic means in the production of elections and referendums? With a response, 1 883 411 citizens voted, which is 69.52 per cent of those who took part in the vote for a national referendum, and with a reply.NE.S. 704 182 voters, which is 25.99 per cent of those who voted. On the basis of art. 23, para. 3 in relation to Art. 52 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government within a three-month period of entry, the National Assembly shall rule on a decision and measures to implement the proposal subject to the referendum. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs presented the arguments in favour of the electronic vote. He noted that electronic voting is a modern way of voting and meets the needs and requirements of the modern information and communication society. It aims to significantly expand civil participation in elections and referendums by attracting voters living abroad, voters with specific physical needs, as well as voters who are located outside the locality at their permanent address on election day. The electronic vote will increase the motivation of young people to participate in the elections, as well as contribute to attracting and involving civil society in the management of the state. An argument in favour of e-voting is increased transparency in the electoral process. The number of votes and the summation of data in electronic voting are significantly more reliable than similar paper ballot voting operations. Remote voting will save time, inconveniences from overcoming large distances to polling stations and the accumulation of groups of people in front of them. This way of voting will lead to higher turnout and more people will feel politically represented. The electronic vote would facilitate the work of the electoral committees and of the entire administration involved in the process. This way of voting would contribute to reducing the possibility of involuntary errors, quick handling of election results, and thereby increasing the quality of the electoral process. Electronic voting allows real-time information to be received on the number of voters. It reduces the possibility of falsifying election committee protocols, which is one of the powerful instruments for manipulating elections. The introduction of an electronic vote would lead to an increase in electoral activity, as it does not exclude the vote by paper ballots, but is carried out in parallel with it, which would allow any voter to make his choice on how to vote. Electronic voting is a step in the process of modernisation of the entire administrative process based on information technology. Therefore, its promotion is also envisaged in the European Parliament resolution on the reform of the European Union's selective law 2015/2035 INL, supported by the majority of the European Parliament. According to T. 14 of the Resolution of the European Parliament, Member States are encouraged to authorise vote by post, e-voting and voting over the Internet in order to increase participation and facilitate the vote of all citizens, particularly those with reduced mobility, and those who live and work in a Member State of the European Union of which they are not nationals, or in a third country, provided that the necessary measures are taken to prevent any fraud in the vote by those means. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Hamid Hamid, Philip Popov, Dimitar Lazarov, Dimitar Delchev, Emil Dimitrov, Svilen Ivanov, Chavdar Georgiev and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. MPs Filip Popov and Chavdar Georgiev expressed their arguments against the introduction of the electronic vote. The majority of the Members of the National Assembly have justified their views in support of the electronic vote. Members of parliament Petar Slavov, Hamid Hamid, Chavdar Georgiev and Dimitar Delchev made proposals for amendments to the draft decision which was presented by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Two of the proposals were rejected: the MP Petar Slavov in the draft decision to add item. 4 which provides for the National Assembly's obligation by the end of May 2016 to adopt the necessary amendments to the Election Code, including on the e-voting, and of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev to take the item. 1 of the Draft Decision. Support received two of the proposals for editing: the MP Hamid Hamid. 1 Finally, after the word "referendums" to be added to the legal guarantees for the secret of the vote, the civil control over the electoral process and the security of the information systems, and of the MP Dimitar Delchev in points 2 and 3 of the Project to replace the words "Laws of the Election Code" with the laws concerning the Election Code. The introduction of a remote vote by electronic means was supported by Ms Petya Tiankova, as well as representatives of the Initiative Committee. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, 3 votes against the Council and without abstentions, proposes to the National Assembly the following Project: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the national referendum held on 25 October 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23, para. 3 in relation to Art. 52 of the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government HAS DECIDED 1. Supports the possibility to vote remotely and electronically in the production of elections and referendums and in the provision of legal guarantees for the secret of the vote, civil control over the electoral process and the security of information systems; 2. By 29 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall discuss, at first vote, all drafts submitted and new draft laws concerning the Election Code, including draft laws providing for the introduction of remote voting by electronic means, as well as to examine and analyse all possibilities and procedures for remote electronic voting in the application systems of European legislation. 3. By the end of April 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs shall submit a report on the second vote on the bills adopted at the first vote concerning the Election Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, the debate is open. Until now, Mr. Enchev has applied for a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait, we're going to record them all now. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! Personally, I support the electronic vote, as this is the future of the electoral process not only in Bulgaria but also throughout the world. Yes, I support it, but not at the present moment in Bulgaria, when, as you know, there is also a corporate and controlled vote. The corporate vote is no secret, is the vote in the big companies in Bulgaria, companies of prominent oligarchs, where you know how workers are forced to vote there, at the will of their employer. The controlled vote also knows where the controlled vote is located in the gypsy ghettos, where the gypsy barons decide which party to vote for, which majority candidate to vote for. The introduction of electronic voting in this currently corporate and controlled system in Bulgaria will distort the vote of the Bulgarian voters. I repeat once again: I am for the e-voting, but not at this time and not in our current state, when the educational level of Bulgarian citizens is not very high. A number of countries over the years have tried to introduce the e-vote and have naturally refused. Let me list these countries to be more convincing: Germany, Britain, the Netherlands, Finland, Italy and Ireland, because there is no guarantee of the secret of the vote. There is absolutely no talk of a controlled or corporate vote, which once again shows that we, as a Balkan state, in the bad sense of the word, are setting the worst example in the European Union. There is no other country in the European Union in which there is a vote, except two years ago, there was such a phenomenon in Albania. To date, there is only one country in the world in which the electronic vote is applied, and this is Estonia, and it is partly introduced into France and Belgium, in France, only beyond the maritime territories. And although the vote in Estonia is online, since every citizen, you know, is equipped with an electronic signature, two years ago, a study by the University of Michigan came out, which clearly proves that the electoral system in Estonia can be broken down in three ways: the first way It is important to note, and it is particularly important to hear it now, that of all those who voted in a percentage in Estonia, the percentage of Estonians who cast their vote by e-voting is between 15 and 25 percent, i.e. even they prefer the vote at this stage with paper ballots. Apropo, two years ago in the Netherlands, they did a voting experiment like this: they created several test sections and were officially invited hackers to see if they could break the defense in these sections. The first section was broken in seven minutes. This information, by the way, was submitted during the election campaign last year by our compatriots living in the Netherlands. And look what happened in the United States of America in the 2012 elections. A year earlier in 2011, it was proposed to introduce an electronic vote which, in part, highlights this, to replace the vote by mail, which is extremely developed in Europe and in the United States of America. And not another, but the computer specialists in the United States of America in the face of Barbara Simmons, chairman of the American Computer Academy, who issued a book on this issue, were categorically against this initiative because, as they said, it does not guarantee the secret of the vote. Even theoretically, the secret of the vote and the security of the electoral process cannot be guaranteed, and this woman is one of the top scientists in the United States of America when it comes to computer science. You all know what happened last year, how the Central Election Commission server was blocked and for hours this problem could not be fixed. And to this day, we don't know who the originator is, who is the contracting entity of this hacker attack. Naturally, let me finish with the topic United States of America. Today, there is no electronic vote in the United States. So, are we gonna be these innovators?! I repeat, Belgium and France -- a partial electronic vote by the European Union -- in Estonia, indeed, the electronic vote has been put in place, but with 25, at most 30% participation, and not one other country. What you want to do with the e-vote may be for noble motives to save money. However, I think that with the electronic vote will be presented on a silver platter victory of a party in Bulgaria, and this is GERB party. In fact, from this vote, which will happen shortly, we will find out who are really opposition and who are ruling, because, as we heard from the Commission meeting a few days ago, even parties that have voted against the electronic vote, in this part of the House, have changed their opinion and will vote together with the ruling coalition headed by GERB party. Therefore, I call on you, and, of course, I am making the clarification in advance for the electronic vote, but not at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u7	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Slavov has the floor. To cook Mariana Todorova from ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to start by saying that I am making an editorial proposal, similar to what I did in the Commission, but I have tried to improve it and reflect it with what colleagues have been paying attention to me since the Legal Committee meeting, that it may have sounded vague to them and that is why they have abstained. I also give it to you in writing, and I will ask you, of course, when it is being discussed, possibly also about your attitude, because the decision itself, to me, the draft decision which we are discussing today, seems somewhat unfinished to me, to tell you frankly, colleagues. It entrusts the Legal Commission with certain obligations. It is evident that, at first reading, the future Draft Law of the Election Code, which introduces an electronic vote, will be viewed so that a report of the Law Committee for a second vote can then be made available, but that's where it ends. For me, at least it is not logical for them to finish the second vote report drawn up by the Legal Committee. They should end up in the gym. We all know what the path of a bill is. So I've suggested point 4, which says the following thing: "4." By the end of May 2016, the National Assembly finally voted on amendments to the Election Code, including the implementation of a remote electronic vote. Here, I pay particular attention to the word'successful', as what my fellow Members have told me is that they have been under the impression that this proposal is almost a month of May to vote on it and that it will come into force immediately. Obviously this is not the point of the proposal that I am making, and all who are inside the subject matter, we understand that this is not a quick and simple process and requires a very serious and technological process, I would say, and the legislative efforts of the National Assembly so that it can be implemented in the right way in a way that protects the secret of the vote, in a way that meets public expectations and does not allow manipulation. Therefore, there will probably also be pilot projects, phase-in and so on, and within a reasonable period, which will probably be no less than a year, that thing will enter and become a real part of our current legislation, as for example we will have at the presidential elections at the end of this year a machine vote. This is how it is written in the Election Code and it has gradually entered into force so that it can now finally enter into force. One more thing I will say in advance, as I am convinced that, on the left, they will quote again incorrectly Constitutional Court Decision No 4 of 2011 in Constitutional Case No 4. I appeal to my fellow Members on the left, and to all of you, knowing what they will say, because they have already repeated it dozens of times and every time they say it wrong, to read Section VIII of this decision, in particular the motives of the constitutional judges under § 11 of the then-QC Fidosova, where the electronic vote that was introduced was then attacked, which has nothing to do with what we now want to introduce as technology. In addition, constitutional judges have very clearly written that electronic voting is not unconstitutional in itself. That's one to one sentence you'll read there. They even continued and said: it is a modern form of remote voting, which is practiced in many European countries, such as mail voting. For me, things are absolutely clear there..... was about a bad text from that Code, which has been repealed, and there is no problem to introduce in the right way the electronic vote by this National Assembly. What I am going to finish with and suppose that many of you have been impressed, but of all the Bulgarian citizens who voted in this referendum, over 1,800 000 said that they want an electronic vote, which accounted for nearly 70% of the voters. If you look at this number, that one million. Eight hundred and eighty thousand. Bulgarian citizens and compare them with the requirement for a majority under the Law on referendums in order to make the referendum binding, you will see that in fact this majority is more than half of those who voted in the last parliamentary elections. We have formally taken a decision, we have a majority to make a decision, as the Law on the Direct Participation of Citizens requires, and so on, but there has been a lack of the activity laid down in this Law, that is, the minimum threshold of about 50% has not been reached, even though it has been achieved with the smaller threshold the necessary majority to make the decision. I hardly need to recall why the Law on referendums was not changed and remained on the old proposals, and there was an idea that the threshold would be reduced and then there really would be no problem at all. That's what I'm graduating with. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u9	Thank you. Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Mrs. Mariana Todorova has the floor. To prepare Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it became clear from our report of the Legal Commission, over 1 million. $800,000. Bulgarian citizens ruled to introduce the e-vote by, notice, the majority of party sympathizers also said............................................................................................... This is a sufficiently legitimate majority, because a much smaller part is elected president in the Republic of Bulgaria, and with a much smaller part of the voters elected government, so we cannot ignore the will of the citizens. And this happened against the backdrop of the bloated and muffled campaign that was held for the referendum and the cut-off overall philosophy in the three issues that were formulated. There are many arguments that are used against electronic voting. One of them, as colleague Slavov has already mentioned, is that it is unconstitutional, but Constitutional Court Decision No 4 of 2011 concerns a specific provision of the then Election Code, where it is said that the Constitutional Court is opposed to the experimental electronic vote, which does not guarantee the secret of the vote. With the Draft Resolution of the Legal Commission today, there is no such risk. There are no concerns or risks relating to the electronic vote that do not apply to the normal vote. Manipulation and replacement of the vote concern moral principles and law enforcement, and we should not believe that electronic voting carries more risks than the other. It should not be suggested that this referendum is only for Bulgarians abroad. Yes, they will have the opportunity to exercise their vote, but this is a way to unite these people to the Bulgarian nation and use their potential. In this sense, electronic voting can become a symbol of the unity and integrity of our nation. I would not agree with the thesis that these people have no moral grounds to exercise their vote because they are not in Bulgaria. I dare say that they are among the biggest investors, according to different data, between one and three billion are transferred to Bulgaria by these people abroad. We cannot believe that the fear of a particular compact group from abroad can predict or decide the elections here. And now there is no obstacle for such a group to be mobilised and organised, although it is more difficult to vote physically. The electronic vote would also make it easier for people who are disadvantaged and the so-called internal migration, which is apolitical, not interested in politics and is apathetic, but because of the easier and more accessible way could decide to take part in the vote. That would also motivate young people who have an affinity for technology. In short, I will list some of the other positives: voter turnout will definitely increase because more people will vote from both abroad and Bulgaria. We must not confuse the problems of technology with the problems of electronic voting. There are many measures that could be introduced and protect the secret of the vote something that ABB firmly stands behind. This can be done through an identity card with an electronic identifier, with an electronic signature and with many other protection systems. It will also limit the forgery of election ballots and frauds in electoral sections through abuse of the members of the polls. If technology is reliable enough, the bought vote and its relative weight will be reduced, and in perspective the elections will become very cheap. Once again, the electronic vote is only an alternative to the normal and formal vote. It's not going to replace it completely, it's just giving it another chance. As I said before, we can be innovators and leaders in the creation of an electronic platform, create added value for Bulgaria, patent this platform and offer it to the whole world because we have good traditions and practices in information technology. So we shouldn't lightly ignore this option and fear that we are first among the others. ABB calls for electronic voting to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u11	Any lines to Mrs. Todorova? I won't. The word is Mr. Kenov, after him Mr. Mihail Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! The BDZ will support the proposed decision of the Legal Commission. What has been heard by the pre-speakers will always have doubts that something in the process may go wrong, there may be abuse. However, let me remind you how the elections have been made so far, and the many abuses and errors have led to distortion of results. For me, as a person who has participated in various headquarters in various kinds of elections in recent years, I believe that one of the major problems is the abuse that is taking place in the sectional election committees and in the last elections and in the municipal electoral committees. Even if we assume that there was no intention, there were many unprepared people, there were people who did not know the electoral legislation even in municipal electoral committees of smaller municipalities. As a person of the 21st century, I believe that the cure for this thing and for getting rid of these mistakes is precisely electronic and machine voting. The less human factor that decides whether a vote is real or not in the electoral room, the less the abuse of election results will be. Dozens and hundreds of thousands of votes were destroyed in the last local elections. After all, a million and eight hundred, a million and nine hundred thousand Bulgarian citizens said to take the remote electronic vote. I believe that all Bulgarian citizens who work, raise their families outside the country, have the full right, guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to exercise their vote. We, as legislators, are obliged to ensure their exercise of this constitutional right. What could happen? There are many different types and proposals for the practical implementation of the electronic vote. It is very important to me that the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria should give its reading, its way of conducting electronic remote voting. Perhaps the only thing that concerns me personally as a MP and a lawyer is that the draft decision of the Legal Commission lacks an award, there is no request from the Council of Ministers to propose a bill precisely for the introduction of a remote vote. Although this thing is not explicitly written, I very much hope that the Council of Ministers will give its views on how to conduct this thing. I'm not familiar with all the laws submitted to the Legal Commission to amend the Election Code, but they're probably quite controversial. We may be putting too many expectations on our colleagues from the Legal Commission, but I believe that by February 29th there will be proposals that will ensure fair elections by electronic means outside the country and outside the places where we have a permanent address. I guarantee that we will support the overall process until a second reading of the amendments to the Election Code is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. - What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Mikov, after him Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u14	Thank you, Madam President. BSP left Bulgaria will vote against the submitted draft decision. In fact, if the MPs read it carefully, they will see that it does not solve anything. It neither meets the public expectations of introducing an electronic vote, nor says it hard to do so because of a number of reasons that exist and the dangers of revealing the secret, forgeries and manipulations of election results. He made a promise and joined the voice of the citizens who took part in the referendum, only that is why you do not need to be a MP, you could have participated in the referendum. That is, it supports the possibility to vote remotely and electronically and so on. I believe that the MPs, who are for the e-vote, participated in the referendum and expressed their vote there. Today, they will only repeat it without contributing more if they really want to resolve the issue of implementing a legislative initiative based on this referendum. The MP has little more rights than the ordinary citizen and its main right is to implement a legislative initiative. Two terms shall be set for the Committee on Legal Affairs. One is when to do his work under the electoral legislation, the second by what time to submit the report for second reading. Otherwise, honourable Members, there should be a serious discussion here about electronic remote voting. It was also necessary and correct for his apologists to study the reports of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, to examine why in two countries - Ireland and the Netherlands - which I suppose are not further back in computer security than Bulgaria - was introduced, and then a similar electronic vote was abolished; why such persistent democracies as Germany, Great Britain, Portugal, France, Sweden, Romania - I can ask a lot more - do not question the remote electronic vote at all because of the simple reason that it hides risks from revealing the secret of the vote once, the second time, there are very serious risks for manipulations, which are characteristic and which Bulgaria is famous throughout Europe during elections. This is an additional technological process, an excuse to increase the possibilities for manipulation, to reduce the costs of those who manipulate the elections, to discourage democracy. Then the simple question arises: will we increase confidence in the elected by this type of election when the mistrust of citizens will grow in the introduction of a system where elections can be manipulated? So, dear Mrs. Todorova, we are not at all the first on the subject. The topic has been debated, including in the Netherlands, after this type of vote has been put in place, a group has been set up.. We do not believe in the computer vote.......................................................................................... Take the results.. You are young people, familiarize yourself with how the Dutch society, after introducing it, captivated and misguided, then makes a group... We do not believe in the computer vote........ which leads to the Dutch Parliament canceling the e-voting. I'll say one more thing and be done with it. Very often the analogies are made, it is not in this discussion, it is under the law, which may someday be imported here with e-banking. Dear Members of the National Assembly, in e-banking the aspiration is the client, the person, the entity and its action, ordering them to be clearly connected and identified. In the vote, the bearer of the expressed will must be torn apart in the vote and the final result. That is where the big problem comes from -- by electronic means -- to achieve the secrecy of the vote -- once, twice -- the credibility of the vote -- because if you tear up the voter from the final result, there's no way you can verify and prevent any manipulation. Banking's different. When you're banking, you know, I'm gonna explain it a little bit more plainly. You get a text message that you have a transaction on your card. You can check it out. There the connection is mandatory by electronic means. So at least this argument removes it from the fairy tales because I hear it quite often and this is also an unfair attitude towards Bulgarian citizens and delusion. That is why we will not support this project. Among other things, what does the National Assembly consider today? He's looking at the results of a referendum initiated by the President. Perhaps the president should have tabled a proposal here to discuss something. The National Assembly, based on a text in the Law, is talking about a draft decision in which in the first part it declares something, and in the second... it determines the time limits of the Legal Commission when to do its job. These are all serious reasons why we should not support the draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I had no intention of including myself, as the rightness of the act that we are discussing today is absolutely obvious. The chaotic ordering of countries that have not done anything is an indicator for us that we should not do it, too, there is no way to accept it. Then let's stop producing rose oil, because those countries that you have listed, and they don't produce rose oil. [[crowd cheering, cheering, and saying, "Bravo!"]] Let's give that up too. As far as whether the vote can be manipulated and whether it can be distorted, you have also made without e-vote without e-voting..................................... So by no means. [[Partial applause from GERB]] I don't see how electronic voting can now further corrupt the vote. In the years back, you have proved that without this act you can corrupt the vote and reverse it, so I don't see now how your opposition will somehow prove that electronic voting is bad. Your retrograde thinking and attitude towards modernity is obvious and is actually rooted in your party's genies. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u17	Second line, please, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u18	Mr. Mikov, you are a lawyer and I believe you know, and even if you don't know, the monitors say that this is a decision of the National Assembly. You were talking about a bill. No, one solution solves matters in principle. It says: do we want an electronic vote or do we not want an electronic vote? Perhaps you do not know, but there are eight bills in the National Assembly's case, of which one concerns electronic voting. The time will come for these debates, Mr. Mikov. I wanted to say something else. I have no doubt that a group will emerge in Bulgaria. I believe that to some extent this group will have been initiated perhaps by you. But after a million and 800 thousand, nearly two million people said they wanted an electronic vote, I suspect you'll have very few members in this group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u19	Third line please, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, my reply is in the last part of your speech, where you compared e-banking with e-voting. Electronic banking is again implemented through software, through machines. Just as the machine and software can identify the person making the transaction, the software can hide this connection. A combination of software and machines can do it and can be done securely and guaranteed in the same way that this is done clearly, clearly and makes the connection you talked about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u21	It's a hole, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear replicating, sincerely entertaining me, but you prove that what I'm saying is true. Maybe, Mr. Ismailov, he'll hide, but he'll show up. [[Replication by National Representative Korman Ismailov.]] It's okay! And in Bulgarian practice can usually pass in that part. We cannot achieve the integrity of the elections with paper ballots, with one extremely case-by-case law written........................................then every step of the member of the sectional election committee is described, and these things are happening that the whole of Bulgaria sees, and you will convince the citizens that the invisible thing that is happening electronically will not be abused with it. Try it! Try to convince them your, our, all voters. As for Mr. Delchev. Mr. Delchev, maybe you should see what I said later, because I'm afraid you didn't understand. To deal with the matter, art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on direct participation of citizens, the President provides that the President will submit here to the National Assembly for discussion the outcome of the referendum. 23, para. Three! And on our own initiative, we are looking at something that is the result of another thing sent by the Central Election Commission. But, uh... This does not help much to respect the laws and parliamentaryism, but that is what we have decided. And finally, for Mr. Georg Georgiev. Mr. Georgiev, I think that this is a contributing moment for the application. Work on this topic, do a dissertation for the Law of the Act and I think you will rise quickly. Do not forget to take part in the parliamentary discussions. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u23	The word for speech is Mr. Kazak, followed by Mr. Alexandrov from "Attack."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u24	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has a consistent position on this issue. In principle, we are consistent in our actions. We have always respected the desire of a huge majority of Bulgarian citizens, whether living in the country or abroad, their choice to be facilitated in any way possible. In other words, to create any prerequisites for facilitating and encouraging the participation of Bulgarian citizens in the electoral process. It is no coincidence that in all these years we have proposed mechanisms to not limit ourselves, but to facilitate the possibility of as many Bulgarian citizens, whether living in the country or abroad, to participate in the elections. It is also natural that people's desire to be made easier when they are called to participate in certain actions that matter to society, to public authority. However, there is one very important condition............... the state will create all the necessary guarantees for this? Such participation, when accompanied by significant legal consequences, and even more power-related consequences, then those guarantees really need to be secure in order not to abuse people's voice. That is why we have always said that we support all the proposals, all the ideas that aim to allow technical progress to contribute to facilitating, including the electoral process, but we have always put this very important condition on the table, not to create prerequisites, not to open doors for misuse of the possibilities of technical progress. That is why we have also proposed that in this draft decision, unlike other colleagues, constructively set up, provide for all these guarantees. Because it is not indifferent to us how this new instrument will be used to participate in the vote. It is also natural that when you ask them a question: "Do you want something that will make it easier for you?"............................................................................ But our responsibility afterwards, as legislators, as statesmen, is to provide such mechanisms to make this desire a reality and in a way that does not undermine the desire and aspirations of these Bulgarian citizens. There's a very good phrase here: It's one thing to want, it's another to be able to. And here is the whole question: "Whether we can, as statesmen, as politicians, draw from the experience of other countries that have already gone down this road, because we really are not pioneers, but can we create these guarantees and these mechanisms? In all the consultations that took place before this referendum, it became clear that no one at present can provide secure, firm guarantees for the integrity of the vote, for the secrecy of the vote, for the credibility of the results and, above all, certain guarantees to ensure the security of the information systems in processing the results of the electronic vote. In this regard, until such guarantees are provided, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as a responsible political force, cannot support the introduction of a remote electronic vote. That is, we would support the introduction of remote electronic voting only when we receive such explicit guarantees. That is why, in this draft decision, we have proposed to the Committee on Legal Affairs in this regard. 1 to make this very important arrangement, this very important condition, namely that we support the possibility of ever introducing a remote electronic vote, but only when clear legal guarantees on the secret of the vote are signed, the possibility of exercising civil control over the exercise of the remote electronic vote and, above all, to ensure the security of information systems. Ladies and gentlemen, we all wish the elections in Bulgaria to be fair, their results to be credible, to be indisputable How can this be achieved? It can only be achieved with the sincere desire of all political forces to find those mechanisms that will block the way against any abuse. Over the years, we have seen all sorts of things about buying votes, corporate vote, manipulations, buying sections, and yet never before in Bulgaria's latest history has come to the cassation of elections as a whole. With the introduction of a remote electronic vote, without being clearly defined secure guarantees against abuse, against the possibility of manipulating the information systems in the processing of the results, we risk for the first time, for the first time in the latest history of Bulgaria to be reached if hacking attacks are allowed, if such manipulation of the processing of the results is allowed, we risk for the first time to be cast the elections in general in Bulgaria. That is the risk we should not allow as responsible politicians. Because then we will not deal with complaints that a section did not account for N votes or were reported as invalid, and they were real; we will not complain that somewhere there was a corporate vote; we will not complain that there was a vote purchase somewhere. Then we will open the door wide and become a factor in the electoral process such hacker groups as the Anonymous. Do we want this to happen? I'm pretty sure I don't. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we will absolutely not support this proposal, which has now come as a new item. 4 because it is important for us to walk this time.. the way of providing such guarantees. To allow really scientific backgrounds, IT specialists in a reasonable time to try to provide us with similar guarantees. Only if they succeed! And don't let this term be overrated. Then, when they are able to provide us with such guarantees, let us consider specific deadlines for introducing the electronic remote voting. Until then, time limits for phased entry, for introducing at all as a principle of remote electronic voting are unacceptable to us. I refer to my colleagues from the Reformation Block: in addition to a remote electronic vote, you have also proposed the introduction of an electronic machine vote. Here, in this direction, we would encourage you to continue working together because electronic machine voting really creates quite other options and provides a chance to overcome some weaknesses in the current electoral process, but not the remote electronic vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u25	- What's the line? Mr. Simeonov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u26	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We were alive to hear a leader of the DPS quote the father of Bulgarian contemporary nationalism Nikolay Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u27	I'm not a leader.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u28	Incomplete, Mr. Kazak. The full text of this great thought is: It is one thing to want, it is another to be able, and it is the third and fourth to do so. And in the line of disagreement, the correction that I am making, I will also express my agreement with you with regard to this unspoken phrase that the forty-third National Assembly will not be able to do so in which we all swear to achieve honesty, transparency and compliance with the vote of voters. We can't do this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u29	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kazak, would you like to use it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Simeonov, first of all, I want to correct you. I am not a leader of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Our leader is one and only and he is known to all [[breathing heavily on the right, exhilarating]] He is the founder of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Noise and lines.]] So with more modesty I want to assure you that when a phrase is accurate when it is wise, it does not matter who quotes it and who is quoted. The important thing is that we really listen to this phrase and learn lessons from it. In this case, I am convinced that the majority of present MPs will listen to this wisdom and, on the basis of its lessons, will make their responsible decisions. Because we all wish, I am convinced, only the good, only the progress of Bulgaria, but it is our responsibility to ensure that this happens in the best way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u31	The word is Mr. Alexandrov, and after that by Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Karakachanov, who's first? [[Heckling]] Mr. Valeri Simeonov to prepare. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I will say this at the beginning: machine voting yes, e-vote at this time no. As much as we debate whether this is in principle a solution, and we are about to debate the bills, we need to take into account precisely here things that we will also take into account in the bills, precisely for the electronic vote. There is a decision of the Bulgarian Constitutional Court in 2011. The first is the introduction of an experimental one, and the second is the introduction of an electronic one. The Constitutional Court says that the mystery of the vote is not guaranteed, precisely in a way that is currently recorded in the Constitution. What is being introduced and what can be achieved by electronic voting is the following. Let me explain. I don't know how many of you have seen specific voting methods of the kind, there are voters who are given lines, ropes, sticks, only numbers to vote, all these voters will already be so caught that we won't see these things, we won't be able to talk about controlled and manipulated vote, we can't talk about corporate vote. Imagine the following thing: you say that the vote is directed primarily for voters who are outside the country, they will have the biggest preference to take advantage of it. Okay, but I'm asking you, if it's such a facility for voters outside the country, who's going to issue the certificates of vote, or an electronic signature, or whether it's a PIN code? Shouldn't everyone personally go to the consulate or embassy in order to request such a code so that they can then vote? How, then, will this correspond to the electronic vote, increase transparency, facilitate young people, facilitate people in general, Bulgarian voters?! Is it not precisely that electronic voting will increase the motivation of young people? Colleagues, the motivation of young people, voters in Bulgaria and their increase and activity during the elections is through the policies which the government confesses and not through the introduction of one or another referendum for voting. Understand that in 2011 there was a certain peak in the vote of Bulgarians abroad. One hundred and twenty thousand are in Turkey. According to data, there are 300,000. Souls. Does this mean that you, of the majority, are going to this practice to create conditions for the creation of another party with votes from Turkey in the Bulgarian Parliament? Is this what you're going to do with this decision, or the possibility of e-voting?! Machine voting, on the other hand, has far more pros than minuses in general. Because for people who have been operating, those who have been on committees and have seen what is happening in committees, they know many such cases. Not to explain to you that there are cases where the bags of ballots are opened, a candidate appeals the choice.. opens the bag, finds ten wrong ballots, but not for him, and does not cash out the elections because it is not for him, he has not filed the complaint, was not the right person. By e-voting this, we will not avoid it. On the contrary, what will happen? In Estonia, the electronic vote passes as follows: between 10 and 4 days before the elections are voted electronically on the Internet or via a special application of phones. That is, the Central Election Commission up to 4 days before the elections will know the results of the votes abroad. Doesn't that seem a little weird to you?! The other question. Will these people have the right to change their vote? Where are these people gonna file their complaints if their vote doesn't match? What kind of encryption are we gonna use? Bank? We're gonna create separate servers similar to bank servers? What will guarantee us that this vote will not be manipulated? What will guarantee us that, for example, in places like Stolipinovo, Mushroom neighborhood, Gianavara and other such neighborhoods there will be no 100% turnout? Because it's getting very easy now. One person collects the ID cards, the same with the corporate vote, collects the ID cards, collects the PIN codes and votes on behalf of everyone, the IP changes. A very large number of Internet distributors in the country provide this opportunity for the so-called dynamic IP. How do we track them? Will we be able to give full assurance that our Constitution will not be violated, that we will respect the principles and not deliver this system, because that is exactly what we are doing. The remote vote would save time. Colleagues, how is it going to save time if the given person, who is 400 km away, has to go to file the documents for the electronic certificate, whether it be an electronic signature or a PIN code, and then come back to vote again. Isn't it the same for him to go to the consulate again? Or are you going to make it possible for him to get it by remote route, for example by post, to submit it by application, but he must declare that it is precisely the person who provides his personal data? Another question is to what extent does this work in different countries? Some were talking about France. There, the greatest success of democracy was thought to be expressed in 11 MPs elected electronically. Do you know what the percentage of the total number of Members of the National Assembly in France is? Nine hundred twenty-five are in both chambers, let's say the lower chamber is of 577. 11 being selected electronically is less than 2%. If Bulgaria was introduced, as had this idea for the introduction of additional Mir, precisely from abroad, this means a minimum of 4%, i.e. a higher percentage. I understand all the ways of logic that are going through this: let us facilitate and enter, including in the European Parliament resolution, to go in this direction, to facilitate the active selective right of citizens. And I agree with that, but in order to make it easier, first of all, perhaps we should complete the machine voting to avoid what is happening with the sectary election committees at present and at a future time, perhaps introducing an electronic vote as a facility, but when it guarantees the security of our Constitution, namely the mystery of the vote, that this person who stands behind the vote has submitted it in the way he wishes, and the voice is not manipulated. Because at the moment it can be said that in modern conditions, including with sectional election committees, we are constantly following elections, as well as before elections, debating where, how the vote was distorted. During an e-vote, by filing over the Internet, we won't even see these things. Who will guarantee us this form of democracy? Wouldn't we lose it with this particular offer of yours? For this reason, I and my colleagues will be against your proposal. I do not believe that to date you can guarantee us and all Bulgarian voters that their rights will not be violated, that they will not be abused by their vote and will not be used for unclean purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u33	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, you are wrong that our operators offer the service dynamic IP address. One operator has no service for individuals other than dynamic IP. One of the big ones! This basically means that every computer at the moment you vote and turn it off, you get a new IP address, and it's like a new person is voting. There can only stand one person and this person can play a voice, turn it off, turn it on, put it on a voice, again from a new IP address, which basically means that this is guaranteed by the way our operators offer to individuals the way they use IP addresses. To be able to use a static IP address, you need to make a business plan that costs four times as much. Not everyone can afford it and not every operator allows it to individuals. So here you could be a little more precise. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ermenkov, thank you very much for your comment. I promise next time I'll be better and more specific and exhilarated in the technical characteristics, especially the Internet operators. But maybe I should explain something else then. In this room and this tribune, we have very often talked about the so-called dead souls in our press, including the people with whom we work purely operationally in locations............................... If we introduce the electronic vote, colleagues, these dead souls will no longer be dead, we will revive them very quickly. If you don't know what I'm talking about, I'll explain. Any one of you who wants to be interested can look at the electoral lists in Kardzhali. If you do not know, according to the electoral lists in Kardzhali, Kardzhali is as big as Veliko Tarnovo as an area. If one of you is shocked, you can understand that 5 MPs are elected to Kardzhali in Veliko Tarnovo 8. By definition, a Bulgarian MP is responsible for over 30 thousand voters. That is, not only voters, to be corrected, but residents of the Republic of Bulgaria, because they are responsible for absolutely everyone. If you can find out where those people are in Kardzhalisko, I'll shake your hand. Because they have I.D.s, but they're on the territory of another country, our southern neighbor. And not just there, as one colleague said. So, colleagues, notice what our electoral system is right now! Do you think this is the main problem of our electoral system? Or do you not think that in this way a parliamentary group would not have been created that corresponds to the size of the Reformation bloc in its entirety, including with the oppositions in it as a size, because it would be willing to receive again 300 thousand votes from Turkey? Is that your wish? Or do some people sitting to the right of the room and not so far to the right and in the centre of the hall think that by using various propagandas on the Internet, Facebooks and so on, social networks would distort the notion of people living abroad, for example in the United States of America, to tilt additional voices into their scales and thus receive additional mandates or guarantee their stay in the Bulgarian Parliament? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We have to follow the Constitution as a rule. She says: the voter is sovereign, has the right to a sacrament of the vote, and we have to guarantee it to him. That's why we don't guarantee it. By doing so, some people guarantee that manipulation of the elections will remain unpunished and untransparent, contrary to what you have recorded in the Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. For speech there is the word of the people representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! This extremely serious discussion, which we are having, carries out the enormous risks of complete failure, not only corruption, but also failure of elections that would be held under the sign of the electronic vote or in this way. If I can make a brief communion of the speeches so far, for the most part, they have called on us to be modern, leaders in this direction, to use modernity, a new word used by a young colleague of ours. I don't wish him to walk down the aisle of another leader who used such complex words of the kind of exotic, naive, collective bodies and so on. I hope you don't go down that path. But all of this is actually a peculiar feature of the Bulgarian, I would say the popularity of the desire to be modern, to be exotic, to be different, to be noticeable in some way, in this case as civilized as possible. However, we can also be aware of the risks posed by such an electronic vote. In this regard, I would like to address your mind, honourable colleagues, and not to be modern, to be as European as possible from Europeans and so on, other alabalisms. In this respect, we must take into account the enormous risks that exist in the application of an electronic vote. They're basically in two directions. The first direction is the risk of abuse and manipulation of elections. In cases where there is no personal physical contact with the ballot and the uniqueness of the voter that is hidden, what will not be guaranteed in the electronic vote, because it has been mentioned that, firstly, it is unconstitutional, because there is nothing to be misled, the personal identification code in question will be known to at least one person other than the owner of this code. There is no way that this will provide a security guarantee and an impenetrability of the vote. But getting back to the first major risk is the risk of abuse, the risk of manipulation. For a more visual description, I would describe a few scenes of some such elections that will be voted by electronic means. Scene one: a gypsy neighborhood, a fat doorknob starter, built with a sota electorate. The electorate passes in front of a computer placed outside with a power switch, and they carry their ID cards, and they carry their codexes and vote on a chain. They vote one by one and the result is clear what it will be. Second scene: rural shop in a mixed area. The shopkeeper next to him is the intelligent representative of a very democratic party sitting with his laptop. The population passes, the account book is open, one by one, one by one, a hundred percent vote. Third scene: vote in Turkey. This scene will allow my colleague Mr. Karakachanov to develop it, as he is a narrow specialist on the subject. The fourth scene: on the day of the vote, the administration of a mine, of a heat pump, of a thermal power plant on a famous energy oligarch. There's the shift chief or the head of the department and, in the same way, a hundred percent vote. There's no movement! Whoever does not come will eat the staff, and there will be no bonus, nor food vouchers. Believe me, you can't avoid this if you vote for the e-vote. These four scenes, I think, are enough. We can develop more, I'll leave it to the next speakers. But the important thing is that we realize the huge risk that the first one is by manipulating the elections. The second is from complete failure, sabotaging, drilling, as you would call it, castration of the elections. It's a huge risk! I will not spread out, just for 2015 I will quote several such cases of drilling of alleged impenetrable systems: the Pentagon, the White House, 2015; mass cyber attacks from China; Bulgaria "CEC," Presidency, National Statistical Institute, if you recall, and the NRA system was breached again last year with some very aggressive and described very threatening and apocalyptic attacks which, with repeated blows in the tenth of a second, are causing irreparable damage and blocking the systems of these institutions. Next example. The Russian presidency has been worn out, according to their information, by Turkish hackers, the site has also been blocked, and the entire system, the server, has also been blocked. Turkish hackers. I'm killing you, Turkish hackers! You know how important our southern neighbour's attitude to the electoral process in Bulgaria is, 25 years has been proven. Do you want this to happen? If you want, vote for this Law. Note that in addition to the risks with the total failure of the elections, it will cost Bulgaria money. Because when at the end of the election day there is no election result because all the data is destroyed and cannot be recovered because there is no way to recover them, what is next, honourable Members? New election, right? A new provisional government, new between 40 and 60 million. lv. And all this just to be as it was said, modern, innovative, leaders. Is that the price? We don't have the right to pay for it. And finally. Let's not kid ourselves. The elections were and are being manipulated so far, only this is the result of the inactivity and inability of the Bulgarian institutions to do their job and prevent this manipulation. Dear colleagues, especially the last elections showed that the manipulation of the Bulgarian elections and of the voter's vote took place before entering the dark room. It was already manipulated, bought, prepared, threatened, processed. Unfortunately! For this reason, we have so few cases of casting elections. Just because election results, despite some purely mechanical errors, generally reflect people's vote. The sad thing is that people do not vote on conviction, but vote on 20 BGN, under pressure, under fear or for friendly or other reasons. That's why the election didn't reflect the vote of the people. However, until the time before the electronic vote is applied, anyone who would like to request a census of the physical ballots, the results of the elections to be verified, which would not be possible in the electronic vote. I call on you, the National Assembly to be not the territory, unfortunately, of political discipline, as we were once again shown by GERB, but to be the territory of reason, because our decision depends on the future as a whole of Bulgaria, however pompous it may sound. Thank you. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? Here you are.. Evgeni Stoev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Simeonov! It is true that there are always a few questions in elections. One of them is the secret of the vote. About the secret of the vote and now the question of the thickness of the material carrier is being put on the paper. The question is how is the ballot folded, whether he who enters the booth again in different ways, led and motivated by different people, whether he takes pictures of it. So the secret of the vote is indeed a serious matter and so far it is also being attacked. Next, the risk of abuse. For the risk of abuse, it will probably not only be those 4 examples that you have set, but perhaps 24 examples. There's always a risk of abuse. In the time we live, there will indeed be cyber attacks for sure, but I think that we should not stop just here on the paper so-called material carrier, but we should actually leave without being innovative, without being people who will impose new principles and ideas in the vote, we should try to see if we can go the way that some of the Western democracies have already gone. Here, I'm going to counter the fact that people have entrusted their transactions to the money, and now it's going electronically. You know, for some, money is actually the nicest thing, and a lot of people who are materially inclined really hold on to their money, their transactions on their money. After that. You know, with electronic signature, they sign remote documents. It is no longer necessary to actually walk and must be signed on knee documents at different institutions. So e-banking is ubiquitous and we entrust our transactions electronically. For the elections, I also think that we can try and do everything possible to become more visible and more transparent, and for the risks, there are indeed many risks, starting from the ice age, from global warming. There are risks, and when we drive our car on the road, it's called getting some kind of trauma. So thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Stoev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, electronic banking, the use of credit and debit cards is widely introduced, but it is a mass phenomenon and the withdrawal of money, the drilling of this system, the use of code and data on this card without the desire and knowledge of the card owner. If, in the case of these transactions, it is a personal drama, but excuse me, drilling the security of the electronic voting system and failing the elections is not a drama, it is a disaster. So let's do the exponents. By the same logic, I cannot accept that there is a manipulation at the moment because the newsletter does not fold well somewhere, somewhere and does not fold well, but it is the job of the election organizers to choose the relevant paper, with the corresponding weight, density and so on. So I can't accept your arguments. Once again, I use that I am on the stand to call on all colleagues to vote with reason and to take account of the arguments that I have brought to my speech, and to draw attention to the arguments of my colleague Mr. Karakachanov, who, if he wishes, may immediately come after me to the stand, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Before Mr. Karakachanov, however, there will be a lot more who want to take the floor. The word has the people representative Dimitar Delchev and after him Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u44	Wait, wait!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u45	You want a personal explanation? [[Reply of MP Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, we from the Reformation Block will support the electronic vote so that more people can vote easier and more modernly so that more people can be included, as they have never been involved in the electoral process before. The electronic vote has been practiced for ten years in Estonia, is being exercised in states in Canada, in states from India, to some extent has been introduced into France. As a kind of remote vote, electronic voting is a more progressive way to vote, unlike the mail vote, which is in the US, in Germany, in Ireland and so on. So this is a more modern version of the remote voting in these countries. By this I would like to say that this mantra, which has been repeating on TV for some time now, not to say for months that the electronic vote will be introduced for the first time in Bulgaria and, you see, how the government would severely mistake and compromise the entire national vote, is not right. There it is, it's in place, there's technology worldwide that can guarantee the security of electronic voting. Nearly two million Bulgarians voted in the referendum, nearly 70% of the voters said "to" the e-vote. Colleagues, I don't think we can put these people behind us. We do not have the right to leave nearly three million Bulgarians abroad to fight the big distances in some countries, to often struggle with the inability to vote because there are no sections, and to exclude them from the process, and they are constantly included in the Bulgarian life online through online exchange of information by drawing from the media, or through online translations to their close bank transfers and money transfers. We in the Reformation Block have as our main priority the improvement of the electoral process in Bulgaria.. which, as seen in the last five years, has been quite compromised, full of quite vices and manipulations. Dear colleagues, e-voting is a step in the right direction. With it, the invalid ballots, something that is not being commented, cease to exist. With him there will be no more or no longer so essential queues in front of the sections. When a person can't get into his section, he goes and votes electronically. Counting the results will be immediate and as accurate as possible. These are the advantages of progress, and I believe that these are only part of the pros of e-voting. However, I admit, because I am also talking to people that there are many concerns about electronic voting. People know that this is a newer way of voting, but they see in it the possibility of a newer way of manipulating the vote and treacherous ways of distorting the voices of citizens. We have no right to turn a blind eye to these people's fears. Therefore, the Law on Electronic Identification must ensure that the electronic ID cards that God gives begin to be issued in Bulgaria will bring sufficient security that there is no mass identity theft to be voted on with them. The Law itself and technical decisions under this Law must, in turn, guarantee the security of the vote that there will be no hacker attacks, collapses and compromising the anonymity of citizens. Yes, it may take time, but no matter how long it takes, it is necessary. Until then, while pilot projects are underway, we will continue to call for active registration and, above all, for machine counting and machine voting, as an alternative to paper voting, voting with newsletters, something that is also, as well as electronic voting, a step in the right direction of the democratic elections. Colleagues, I will conclude that we are currently voting in principle on whether or not there is an electronic vote. Please let our technical specialists have the fun to come up with the technical ways in which to introduce the electronic vote so that there is maximum security and maximum guarantee for the vote of citizens. Thank you. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. - What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Karakachanov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, this is a topic on which I see that colleagues are quite thoughtless and quick to speak about it with a variety of arguments, frankly, incontrovertible from-to. For me, the whole debate is populism. I've been a witness, and you, if you think about it, you'll see that everyone in power is trying to change the law so that it's profitable for them. I'll say it directly. I know that what I say will not be considered and accepted, but I say it about the minutes of the National Assembly and the people who are interested. Mr. Simeonov has called you to reason. I do not expect you to show one, as you have not shown it for a year and something "Neither coalition culture nor reason, but this is another topic! Why is it populism?! Some people realize how they can manipulate the electronic vote in their favor. Others realize that Bulgarians in America and Canada loved them very much and will vote for them. Others realize how by e-voting through corporate vote they will cast votes and guarantee their own personal interest. That's the truth. Everything else is bullshit! If this House wanted the President's referendum to be held in its entirety, it would not have been possible for GERB colleagues to screw up the mandatory vote. That was a direct deal with the DPS. Direct deal! The first vote passed, a request for a re-vote, and suddenly it turns out that 25 people in three seconds are missing from the room! Therefore, do not talk about honesty, integrity and concern for the Bulgarians and about facilitating the vote! That's the truth. Let's keep it in the protocols. Secondly, you are talking about the Bulgarians abroad who had to vote. Which Bulgarians abroad?! You don't count them as people! These two million Bulgarians, who are abroad, fled precisely after these 25 years of outrageous government. They run not because they want to walk to Niagara Falls or a valley in California, but because they have no business in Bulgaria. The real concern for people is to find jobs, to ease business, not to lie to them that we will give them the right to participate in politics in Bulgaria by giving them the right to vote electronically. Apropo: look how many Bulgarians from abroad voted in the referendum! Third major fraud that was launched: in the referendum people showed that they wanted to! How many people voted for?! One million eight hundred and thirty thousand out of six and a half million voters. I've calculated it. This makes there-there's no 28%. And that falls as an argument. And to calm the tone a little bit, that's within the joke. We have such experience, Madam President, honourable Members, in the e-voting in the Parliament's Chamber the cards were electronic, but were not named, there were no prints, like in prison. And what was happening?! One MP voted with 10 or 20 cards as much as he could! Did you cancel it? We canceled. What do you want to do now?! Let's do the same. Let's give someone a chance to manipulate the election, get a sense of it, and then cancel it. What's the point?! Before there is a guarantee that an electronic vote can be fair and cannot be manipulated, we must not proceed to such an action. We're throwing dust in our eyes, someone's doing the populism bill to lie to people that they're thinking about them, that's all! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't push my button. We have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u49	Let's extend the time, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u50	That's right! I'll tell you the main problem. The main problem is that no one here thinks about Bulgaria's national security. I'll put it to you straight. How do you think neighbouring Turkey will participate in the elections in Bulgaria? Do any of you have the illusion that neighbouring Turkey has never been involved?! Always through the exodus organisations financed by their Foreign Ministry and their security services, the vote is organised there. How much do you think they'll vote electronically if we give them an opportunity like this?! Wouldn't that be 200, 250 grand? The guy?! They may not know they voted. I ask you: how do we guarantee our national security?! I've asked this question a few times, but I can see that no one wants to think about it. I say this in order to remain in the minutes of this National Assembly, so that you do not say tomorrow: "What happened?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm This will be done by other countries. You saw in the last election, I don't know what caused the hacker attack, but it's a fact that we couldn't deal with it. Many Bulgarians could not vote because they were not on the lists of the Gravity. They weren't on the GRO list because the system had been blocked. How do we guarantee that?! Let's think real, not make cheap populism, and mostly thin bills on how to get someone to vote the other way through one type of vote or another, that's the problem, the fundamental problem. Everything else is irresponsible! Thank you, fellow Members. I hope you'll consider these arguments. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u51	- What's the line? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Mr. Bayraktarov, I'm afraid your line will make it impossible for my colleague Iskren Veselinov to say. You have less than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Karakachanov, I think you could have been a lot more convincing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u53	Second line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u54	You're wrong, Mr. Karakachanov. It is not true that the electronic system of the National Assembly was not secure and this one is secure! This one isn't sure either. Let the whole Bulgarian people know it. Give me one card and I can vote on behalf of anyone. Tricksters taught me how. I won't tell you. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u55	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Karakachanov. [[DPS lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u56	No, it's a tactic. Tactics and strategy is called the guerrilla struggle. I didn't write it. The card thing is a fact. The whole society knew it and this problem was commented because the media filmed a member of parliament passing the lines and voted with 10-15 cards. It's a fact. We canceled. Now he can, too, he's right, Mr. Simeonov. Regarding Mr. Bayraktarov. Yeah, I could have been a lot more direct. Now I will be. With what you propose, you give the Prime Minister of neighbouring Turkey the opportunity to intervene directly in the internal affairs of Bulgaria. Because, unfortunately, after 25 years of experimentation and destruction of Bulgarian services, theirs dominated at the moment. They're dominating. Over 600 of their agents operate in the territory of Bulgaria. The service knows that, but they keep quiet. I don't know why. One such operation to organise the vote will bring you to the Bulgarian Parliament 25-30 people who will not meet in the National Assembly Chamber of a parliamentary group, but will go to Ankara or the Turkish Embassy at a meeting of the parliamentary group. That's the whole problem. And think again, I say, about national security. And other countries will be tempted to do so, believe me, because we have shown the whole world that we are a broken yard. An absolutely decomposed courtyard.. a political elite, which is ready for its petty interests to sacrifice the national interests of the state. This is exactly what we are doing right now, and what we are doing is trying to figure out how to get a voice from above without thinking about how it will affect the future of this country. How? After 25 years of experimentation, don't you see what's happening? Two million escaped. Well, that's why they ran away, because there's nothing to do here, there's no perspective here. Instead of thinking about this as a policy against these people, how to organise the opportunity here to develop their business, how to apply their skills and money earned in the West here, we are wondering how to expel them and how to again deceive these same voters, that we give them great rights so that we can ride them and rule them again. That's the truth. Are you satisfied, Mr. Bayraktarov, with the answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u57	You could have had another minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u59	Following Mr. Karakachanov's speech, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev followed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! We MPs from BSP left Bulgaria will not support this decision because it opens the way for such legislative amendments to the Election Code, which will further corrupt the electoral process. Firstly, the transmission of information electronically is uncertain. This is where the colleagues talked about it. Data can be manipulated at all, which means that in practice you want us to have one official result of all the choices that will be held from now on. We are against this and we do not want the elections to be set at someone's political headquarters. Secondly, direct personal voting cannot be guaranteed as required by art. Ten of our Constitution. In electronic voting, no real voter votes, votes some IP address with some kind of electronic identification. Imagine what would happen to hundreds of thousands of dead people. I can tell you that they will rise for someone's political benefit. That's what you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u61	It won't be yours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u62	Yeah, it won't be in ours. You admit it yourself, you will use it in your favor. That's why we're against it. [[Relations from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Personality in this vote as a real person is hidden, fake, virtual and no one can guarantee you the authenticity of the vote. Do not confuse electronic machine voting with electronic remote control. One person appears at the designated place in a controlled environment before the Commission and is known to vote a real person. In remote data transmission, someone votes from a server. Even the biggest problem of this kind of vote cannot be guaranteed the voluntary and secret of the vote. Colleagues here have talked about this a lot. It is absurd that when you vote in an arbitrary environment, in someone's political headquarters or in someone's company office, you are in any case subject to foreign influence. The secret of your vote is corrupted. And if the secret of the vote is corrupted, your freedom of choice is corrupted. Would you like us to reach out to this fundamental right of democracy, of our modern state, for freedom of choice? Obviously you do, since you are proposing such solutions and preparing for such legislative amendments. Think about it. We must not destroy the established foundations of our Constitution, which created this modern state. There is much talk about the fact that we have results from a referendum and that we must comply with the will of the voter. I say that's not true. This referendum was held improperly, was held in stubbornness thanks to the president, who, despite the unconstitutional content of the issues he proposed to the National Assembly, insisted that such a referendum be held and it was held. It was improperly held on the same day with the local elections and people were forced to vote on the referendum. There are hundreds of thousands of signals about this. And this data is not representative. That one million and eight hundred thousand asked for an electronic vote is not true, in my opinion. Let's go over the referendum again and you'll see that if they vote 20-30 grand again, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u63	20, 30 grand?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u64	Souls. Yeah, that's it. I do not expect a better result because everyone is aware of the risks to electronic voting. Finally, for years there is a feeling in me that is becoming more and more convinced that when the right government comes certain internal and external factors through it do their best to destroy the foundations of democracy in our country. And I'll tell you why that is. In this social inequality, with this staggering and depressing poverty, you need mechanisms to control society. With only media brainwashing, you won't be able to resist the outrage of the people. Sooner or later, a political account will be taken of why the people live so badly, why people run abroad. You now need one control over the electoral process -- both hidden and not being able to have mutual control by the political forces -- which will give you this electronic process of remote voting, and, on the other hand, you have total control over the election result. That's why you're offering it, colleagues on the right, not for anything else. You need political Big Brother and total control of the election process. That is why we, as a left-wing political force that upholds the real rights of citizens, are strongly opposed and will oppose those, I would call them insane amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u65	- What's the line? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Rosen Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! For me today's question is an eternal dilemma in the Bulgarian society.. the struggle between doubt and hope. Do we want to tell a million and eight hundred thousand people today that they're foolish, stupid, that they don't know what they want? Do we always want to be the last? We often ask ourselves: why is our democratic system in this state? I can give you an interesting historical example. In 1866, when England had already built the party system of the Vigs and Tories, the first subway tunnel was dug under the River Thames in London. At that time in our land, it was seven years before the Apostle of Liberty Vasil Levski was hanged, we were mainly involved in Abbey. Perhaps the backwardness of our political system comes entirely from the lag behind our democratic system. In Bulgarian history, if we look at it well, there is practically only 25 years of democracy. After the Liberation, there was a temporary Russian government, then a suspension of the Tarnovo Constitution, a personal regime, then Stefan Stambolov, a wonderful statesman who ruled in an interesting way, then the wars for national unification, then a short management of the Agricultural Union, also known for its democracy, the Orange Guard and so on, then white terror, red terror.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u67	Let's get back to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u68	Let's get back to the point. Thirty-four years of military coup, banning all political parties, then 9 September and so on until 1989. Do we want, with this great political experience in the field of democracy, to have a brilliant coalition culture, to be prominent democrats, our state institutions to enjoy high approval?! No, that's not gonna happen. It just has to take time. So let's not disappoint that 1 million. $800,000. people who asked for something. Of course, I agree with all the risks of electronic voting, but today we are voting in principle! Security guarantees are yet to be introduced. I am convinced that this can lead to investing in the so-called cybersecurity to really guarantee the process. Let us not say the future in front of the 1 million. $800,000. Souls. Let us, like the English, who dug a tunnel in 1866, dig a tunnel where at least at the bottom there's some kind of light, and hopefully it's not the speed of the train coming. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u69	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Trenchev has a say in this. After him Philip Popov and Iskren Veselinov are colleagues recorded so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u70	Dear Madam Chairman, dear colleagues! If the problem is technology, technology is not the problem. Believe me, the e-vote is in an optimistic version of two or three years of us, realistic at five years. We'll have time to clear out all technological concerns, we'll have time to gamble, to do experimental, test periods, like the engine room had an experimental vote. All over the world, developed democracies are trying to involve the citizen in the electoral process. For example, I was at a meeting with the equivalent of the CEC chairman of the most complex electoral area in the world in California. There the ballots are in 25 languages. They are doing everything they can so that citizens can exercise their constitutional right, and we are here wondering how to prevent that. We're going in the wrong direction. About specific concerns. A lot of things have been mentioned, most of them untrue..................the hacking, the CEC website, the Presidency website. You probably all know what a DDoS attack is, how it is established, what it is and how it is prevented. To explain from this high tribune, I think it's important. There is a way to prevent this is a method of attacking a site by pouring too much traffic that he can't handle. Obviously, if we are going to build an e-vote, we will secure the sites much more than the CEC website or the NRA. Contracts are signed with the so-called Top Tier promoters, the big telecommunication companies that monitor, filter harmful traffic, cut it down. If you see that there is too much traffic to the site, say from Thailand, they can also cut off this traffic. Technology solutions have them and we will continue to develop them over time, which remains until the effective introduction of electronic voting. With regard to the corporate vote. Here we all talk as if the paper vote is 100% secure and now we are going to introduce some kind of remote electronic vote, which will be less secure. We all know what manipulations we've been talking about over the years. We obviously have a problem with paper. The electronic vote is one supplement, one supplement, one ease for the citizens. It will not cancel the paper vote at least at this stage, for sure. If a citizen wishes to sell his vote, you cannot stop him, in any way you can try, either with technology or with legal bans, in any way. So if someone wants to sell it, they're gonna sell it, we're not gonna make it any easier, we're gonna make this trial more complicated. If there is an employer who pushes someone to vote in a certain way, the e-voting will first make it difficult for them to explain how. Here is the delusion that we will vote electronically the day we vote with paper. You see, it could collapse like a tower of cards. Not at all. An electronic vote shall take place seven days before the paper vote begins. There's a window of time. If, on the third day, your employer puts a gun to your head and says: "Now you will vote for one party, you have a few more days to change this vote. There's no problem with that. If at the last possible moment makes you vote, the window closes, there is no problem to go and again vote paper as you see fit. Please, let's know what this is about. One of the technological solutions that... [[BSP LB.]] Don't call from the spot. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u71	Colleagues, please do not enter into a dialogue in the way provided for in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u72	Of course the paper vote will cripple the e-mail...... get acquainted. [[Relations from the left block.]] How on the electronic identifier that is divided? We'll get there, be patient! There is a technological solution if someone tries to get you to vote in a certain way. You have two PINs. One is for real exercise of vote when no one controls you. The other is the so-called PIN Panic, which gives a signal to the relevant authorities, sends a signal to the Ministry of Interior, DANS or whoever. They come on site and detain the person who violates your constitutional rights. It's one of the possible solutions. The complexity of this Law is that we will have to say a thousand times to make working decisions and choose which way we will go. But at the moment, this is not the job of the National Assembly. We should basically see how things are. Big irregularities have been said regarding the secret of the vote how it could not be guaranteed. I am sure that you all know what I'm sure you all know what it is. In general, this is the principle of the double envelope, you will most likely walk along this system. You have an envelope in which you insert another envelope in which your voice is. Once you identify yourself as you, you're voting, and once you see what your vote is. Online this is even better, because the two envelopes, figuratively speaking, are encrypted. The keys hold them different people and thus can prevent any kind of manipulation. That's where I'm graduating. I hope there are lines to develop these. Thank you. [[Applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u73	Mr. Mihov, first line. Second line: "Ermenkov," third line: "Alexandrov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Trenchev, you have shown exceptional competence in the technology of the vote. I can't help but replicate you. You talked about defenses, about programs. And when that starts, I ask myself, how much is it going to cost? Secondly, I would replicate you: how will one and a half million Bulgarian citizens in the European Union get reliable, secure voting codes?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u75	Second line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u76	Two questions. The first: since large companies can cut off corresponding volume and traffic from information, could they also cut off the wrong vote, which you think is incorrect. The second question that I want to ask you is, since you will be able with the so-called paper bulletin to make your electronic vote invalid, where did the secret of voting go, in what way will you be able to prove that that vote is the right vote, and the other one is not the right vote, and is this not a way to raise the price of your own vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u77	Mr. Alexandrov, line three.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u78	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Trenchev, it is good to monitor reality in the countries concerned and not just stare at the stars of the flag. I'll tell you this: in the States, after you were in California, you studied how in 25 languages... According to the Bulgarian Constitution and according to the Election Law in Bulgaria only one can hold the campaign and the vote accordingly. And I want a lot of good things like this: instead of BNB, we have our Federal Reserve and oil to trade in levs, but it's not gonna happen. Regarding security and how much it costs, some just said the banks have such systems. Yeah, S.E.B.R.A., BORICA, RINC and so on. They're systems. But, here's Mr. Hristov from GERB, he, if memory serves, is a computer specialist and can tell you how much this thing will cost and how complicated it is to do. The reality here is different. If you hadn't seen it, I'd seen it in Haskovo, in a village, a grandmother hiding under the table, and she wouldn't go to the ballet because she was gonna get her pension suspended. Mrs. Yankova said something right when we talked, and I'll tell you this: if you're making the winter elections, for example, wouldn't it be more profitable for you to come over and buy all the grandparents a coffee entrance and so on and by the way take a vote? It's very convenient. The other question is, if the paper ballot cashes the electronic vote, how long will it be counted, to whom will you appeal the elections? Three days takes counting right now. How many days will this countdown last? How many days will you have to explain that your paper bulletin is this, and go chase the employer. I want to see in modern economic conditions how there will be awake people in Bulgaria who will go and say: the employer made me change my vote at the last moment. Because I go around the country and very often happens in certain areas to say: here the only alternative is who you are and I do not want to go out to advertise because I will suffer certain consequences. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's the reality right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u79	A hole?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u80	Madam President, honourable Members! Regarding how much it will cost, it cannot be said at this stage obviously because we have not yet chosen the roads on which we will build the infrastructure. But to say: whatever it costs, it will be a low price to ensure fair elections in order to involve to integrate people into the electoral process, to bring back not a small part of the Bulgarian society, who say that there is no point in voting and not walking to the ballots. With regard to how the electronic identifier will be obtained. The one who asked me, I don't know which colleague it was, but if he had read the law last week, which he accepted, or rejected, but he also voted on it, if he had read the Law on Electronic Identification, he would know that these identifiers would be received by the Ministry of Interior and consulates around the world.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u81	You haven't read it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u82	Don't call! Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u83	Please, please, don't engage in dialogue, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u84	When we decide to vote electronically and then vote paper for some reason, this is done by using our EID electronic identifier, which contains the only information that we voted online and not how we voted. Here's the division. These are the two envelopes I told you about, which in the case of online voting on everything else are encrypted, I hope with 256 bits of incrimination, as is the standard of anything as safe as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u85	Very professional IT became the dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u86	That's the nature of matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u87	No. In the subject of today's decision, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u88	That's what they asked me about. I'm moving on. Regarding the price of the vote, I am glad that it became clear to everyone that BSP is mostly interested in the price of the vote [[BSP lines]] And don't let her come up. [[Applause from GERB.]] Last but not least, don't underestimate people! I understand, especially on the left of the House, that they feel encouraged that people are stupid because they keep voting for them. [[BSP LB]] . This is not an indication of people's stupidity and the declining trend for voices on the left clearly shows this. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u89	Mr. Trenchev, I pay attention to the expression you use. Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u90	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u91	Mr. Hamid's first on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I asked a minute ago for a procedure in the manner of conduct, but you have just preceded me by making a remark to Mr. Trenchev that we have gone too far into the details of this debate. It seems to me that in the last hour we've gone far beyond the scope of the subject matter of the decision. We have entered into an argument on the substance, we have entered into a debate on voting technology, in the way of obtaining the PIN codes, about panic pins, even new powers of the DANS, we have introduced today. Let us focus on the subject of this decision and not on specific texts of possible future bills. My request to you is to pay attention to the MPs and concentrate them on the subject of the decision being debated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I'll follow your procedure. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, you somehow reacted at the end of Mr. Trenchev's speech when he crossed the limits of the parliamentary eligible language, but you had to impose a penalty on him. That's why I'm turning around. Because when a people's representative accuses of stupidity and misunderstands the people who support a party, they should have a corresponding reaction. Moreover, he is even a representative of Bulgaria in the Parliamentary Assembly and I imagine if he used such vocabulary there, what reaction would occur. Because behind his attempts to technologicalize the debate lies in fact the great danger of this vote that voters will not vote there, and in many cases will vote corporations, external organisations or ghettos and other neighborhoods collectively. I urge you, Madam President, to impose an appropriate sanction on Mr. Trenchev for these words, because they are not arguments, they are an insult to some of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u95	To speak, Mr. Popov has the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u96	It's a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u97	There is no possibility for a personal explanation when you have not been addressed by a Member of the National Assembly in speech. It's a procedure in the manner of conduct. Read the Rules, Members! You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u98	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, electronic remote voting would work where there is a complete electronic control system. One is missing in Bulgaria. Moreover, there is also a lack of licensed software and quality programs to detect and delete such malicious programs, which could jeopardize the anonymity of the vote. The level of unlicensed software in Bulgaria is 63%. This means that potentially for almost two thirds of the voters the secret of their vote can be revealed, and it is possible to even steal their personal data when entering such an online newsletter. Next, the electronic vote does not guarantee the secret of the vote. In some of the technological solutions such as e-banking, for example, there is no anonymity, while here we aim the exact opposite of anonymity. There are examples of experiments where the secret of the vote is revealed. There is one in the Netherlands where they put a device outside the sectary election commission, which shows how people voted inside a controlled environment in a sectary election commission. I can imagine what will happen when this happens over the Internet, not just a machine. Then the possibility of revealing the secret of the vote repeatedly, I repeat, is increasing. Moreover, electronic voting also complicates the preparation of the electoral process itself. It requires the choice and testing of appropriate technology, the training of the electoral administration, because in practice there are two types of choice combined with this, the traditional with paper ballots, and the electronic voting, which are introduced in two different technologies in one, however, a common process, the process of choice that must be dealt with precisely by the electoral administration. And most importantly, honourable Members, the uncontrolled environment can be used as a means of pressure, repression on certain citizens or to a controlled vote. And it will be used. Here, enough eloquent examples have given the previous colleagues and Mr. Simeonov mostly. When voting over the Internet, it is not possible to re-count, manually counting the ballots. How will it be controlled again in municipal election committees, in courts, if there is an appeal? What will be counted again? How? It's a myth that the electronic remote vote will increase voter turnout. In Estonia, it has been raised by about 2%, not even 2%, but the lack of policies cannot be replaced by technology, because what happened in the past year and a half, all the blunders, all the scandals, the local elections that have passed, cannot replace politics with technology, because not even electronically remotely, the citizens with a wink to vote will still not do it freely and dignified because there is no faith in the institutions, faith in the state, faith in the way of vote and the protection of vote, the secret of vote. There's no way to prove that, there's no way to do that, because no computer specialist can guarantee that there's no one sitting next to the voter's shoulder telling him who to vote for and how to vote for, and maybe that's what they're after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u99	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Honest Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u100	Madam President, honourable Members! We are all aware that there is both left and right populism. The left is towards the socially weak, the right is to the so-called smart and beautiful. We are here in one of the ideologies of the right, so it is understandable the behavior and position of both GERB and the reformers. We are ready to offer a compromise that respects the only meaningful argument in fact in these proposals, namely the possibility for our compatriots abroad to identify themselves as Bulgarians, as citizens and to vote. We suggest adding a new sentence to the point. 1 of the draft decision of the National Assembly with the following text: The remote vote by electronic means should be introduced in a gradual way, with the first stage being directed towards Bulgarian citizens who are permanently residing in the member states of the European Union and where there will be no doubt of a controlled vote, the state's intervention in the vote of our fellow citizens and, in that case, if this amendment is adopted, the Patriotic Front is willing to support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u101	Do you have it in writing? Thank you. - What's the line? First line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, this is absolutely discriminatory with regard to Bulgarians living in Bulgaria. Every Bulgarian citizen has the same right to vote, regardless of where he lives, whether he is in Bulgaria or abroad, because the Bulgarians living abroad, just because they live there, do not differ in terms of their electoral rights, from the Bulgarians living in Bulgaria, so please withdraw this proposal. It is absolutely discriminatory and unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u103	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Veselinov, I also believe that this is a discriminatory measure. I join Mr Popov's arguments, but this is discrimination against citizens living abroad but outside the borders of the European Union. Yes, including discrimination against our countrymen in the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u105	Third line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Veselinov, I believe that this is some strange turn on your part by the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front, precisely to support or would you be willing to support such a proposal by adding one such text. Indeed, our Constitution back in the distant or not so distant 1991 has said that we cannot make such discriminations in relation to the selective right of absolutely all Bulgarian citizens who have reached 18 years of age are not placed under an obstacle, special cases that are mentioned in the legislation. I do not believe that if it is conducted experimentally in this direction, I think that the Constitutional Court had such a decree, Decision No 4 of 2011. This is from an experimental point of view, because Mr. Veselinov said that it should only be for the Bulgarians in the European Union. I understand you differently. I understand that you want, through this possible support of yours, to support this Regulation of the European Union to promote selective law in Europe, but to tell you that you are also wrong about not being manipulated again. There are many companies that are in Europe, in the territory of the European Union, where Bulgarian citizens work, are owned by Bulgarian citizens who can again fall under this concept of corporate vote. We can't be sure of him. Here we are talking about the absolute security of the vote of the Bulgarian citizen as a whole and of everyone who has Bulgarian personal documents and we cannot do such experiments with our society and with the people we represent because, as I said in my statement at the outset, we are not just representing our own voters. By Constitution we represent the entire Bulgarian people and precisely from the point of view of this definition, we cannot discriminate against them. We can't say that we represent 30,000 outside or 30,000 inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u107	A hole, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! I agree that in the speech of the speaker before me there was a dose of truth. Yeah, there's a risk. In any case, it is better to have some moderate risk than to have a risk of demolition in general of our electoral system. The fact is that Ireland, for example, spent 40 million. BGN to introduce electronic voting and without testing it at all, scrap the system and, metaphorically speaking, hand it over to scrap metal. So maybe it's good to start on a smaller scale with this electronic voting experiment. I don't agree that this is unconstitutional. I don't agree that this is discriminatory. After all, you are setting yourself an example of one of the European countries - France, which is voting only for its overseas territories - that is, we have this precedent and it is absolutely in the spirit of democracy. So, the goal is to facilitate those who are willing to vote want to exercise their civil law and have some objective difficulty in doing so, as in the case of residents of the country. They're secured by enough sections. About the applause and the sad crying about Turkey and the discrimination of our compatriots in Turkey, well, a colleague, 200 sections in Turkey against two in North America in the last elections. Now, I think their interests are far better protected. Moreover, if we are to look for any further expansion, we really need to focus on the countries of North America and Canada, where democracy is recognised, working and where no one will use the electronic voting tool to replace the vote. That's what I have to tell the people who opposed me. I think it's a resonant offer. He says again: we compromise by offering it. Otherwise, if it is not adopted, of course, we will vote against the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u109	To make a statement there is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u110	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to dispel the doubt and conviction at the same time that some of the MPs who support the vote via the computer have gone into the future. At all, the idea of what the future looks like and that it is necessarily related to the monitor and virtual reality, I think, will be disproved within the next 5 years. I want to set an example that you all might know. If all these security measures, in which we were convinced by the IT specialists like Mr. Trenchev, were a fact, the nuclear missiles would launch them with the mouse on the computer. And to this day, you all know, especially those who are more familiar with security issues, how to control the button and how to carry the briefcase. [[GERB noise and lines]] , and no one shoots from the computer because our civilization will disappear. The second, more significant issue, electronic voting is uncertain, will be manipulated and the political system in Bulgaria will be destabilized. If anyone hopes that by e-voting they will sanitize the electoral process, just as the panel from the Regional Ministry's Program is sanitized, this will not happen for a simple reason. Citizens increasingly believe in political democracy and the reason for this is rooted in representation, political parties and that this political system does not serve their interests. This is the underlying reason, and we have no way with all these, I say, technological numbers to replace the existing, real problems of political governance in Bulgaria. Can political democracy be corrected by the power of the computer monitor and artificial intelligence? Well, you can't, honourable Members, because that raises the essential question: where is the man and where is the machine? Here I heard some enthusiastic revolutionary songs, hymns and marches about how the machine will replace the person and correct his shortcomings. Political democracy is the system that enables and manifests human flaws to keep man as a factor of democracy, because when machines begin to solve the issue of our freedom and the expression of our political moods, then we will get a society that was described 30 or 40 years ago in several films related to the ideology of futurism. One of them was Brazil. I would like to remind my colleagues that all fascinations with how we will technologist and electronize the future will lead to the destruction of democracy. Then the vote will become pointless. Then we will all participate in a large Eurovision, which will end in scandals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u112	Dear colleagues, as for one minute left for the group, only the most important thing. I understand all fears, I understand all objections, a great deal of them have a solid basis. When an important political choice is made, however, it is measured by the scale which is more important. Nothing could be more important to Bulgaria than the fact that the Bulgarian nation is nine million, of which six million live in Bulgaria. There is no other idea of Bulgarian patriotism in this situation than the fact that one third of Bulgarian citizens live outside the country and this percentage is increasing. There are no risks and sacrifices.... not only e-voting, it is infinitely long is the topic which is not such that it is worth including three million Bulgarians in the political life of the country. That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u113	The word is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that today, if we had a decision not to surrender directly and not to broadcast today's debate, we would have been done with the vote long ago. Honourable Members, we are seriously behind on the workload of our legislative activity. Just to say that the Public Procurement Act, the Labour Code, is much more important than what we've had here as a debate. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB and RB.]] Because, honourable Members, in 2014, March, most of the participants may have actively participated in the collection of over 500 thousand signatures in order to hold this referendum. In October 2015, more than 1 million. $800,000. Bulgarian citizens have spoken and said they will. The draft decision that we need to vote on today provides a complete guarantee that the introduction of the electronic vote will take place when there is a legal guarantee when there is civil control and when there is security in the information technologies that will be used to transparent the electoral process for society and for those who need to give their opinion on whether it was such. In fact, we are not currently deciding that tomorrow's electronic vote is being introduced. No one has mentioned that electronic voting is currently in place in the world, at least from the expertise we have made in six countries. In many of these countries, and at present, it is experimental and concerns, and doubts are about corrupting the electoral process, and these are countries that have developed democracies. But we are all aware that technology is part of our daily lives, development will be part of our daily lives, and we must agree in principle and comply with what the Bulgarian voters gave on 25 October 2015. We, the MPs, cannot be against those over 1 million. $800,000. Bulgarian citizens who have said about.............................................................................................. This is why the GERB Parliamentary Group will support the draft decision which has been drawn up by the Legal Commission, and I hope that the other MPs from the other parliamentary groups will also give their support, but with strict respect for the legal criteria for non-confidence of this electoral process in the time ahead. This can be after two, after three, after five, after ten years, when there is a full guarantee and for the technical security of all people who want to take advantage of this opportunity. Therefore, I think that such decisions, which we make for direct broadcast on Channel 1, and when we talk about how much this is worth to the Bulgarian taxpayer, I should tell you that today's decision to change the program of the Bulgarian national television also costs money to the Bulgarian taxpayer. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u115	- What's the line? I won't. There are no other Members of the National Assembly for Speaking. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I'm inviting all the MPs to the House. The Quaestors, please help me. We begin with the editorial additions made in the debate on the relevant points of the draft decision. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: I would like to remind you of the opportunity to vote remotely and electronically when the elections and referendums are being produced and when the legal guarantees are scheduled for the secret of the vote, the civil control over the electoral process and the security of the information systems. The MP Mr. Veselinov from the Patriotic Front offers a second sentence with the following content: The distance vote should be introduced by electronic means and the first stage should be directed towards Bulgarian citizens who are permanently residing in countries of the European Union. I put to the vote Mr. Veselinov's editorial supplement. Vote 184 MPs: 40, against 60, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. [[Replications from the Reformation Block that there were non-votes.]] Who couldn't vote? [[Noise and lines from the Reformation Block.]] Colleagues, don't give speech advice on the substance. I'll allow a clear re-voting procedure if you can explain to me who didn't vote. [[Noise and lines from the Reformation Block.]] Here you are, you have the floor to re-vote. [[Noise and lines from RB.]] Let whoever didn't vote get up and ask. [[Noise and lines from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u116	Madam President, colleagues, with some of my colleagues, I ask them about 4-5, we have failed to vote because of the rapid need for a reaction, and I therefore ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u117	Thank you. I'll make sure you didn't vote. Revoting, coworkers! They voted 193 MPs: 38, against 64, abstention 91. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Slavov's proposal from the Reformation Block Group to create a new item. 4 to the Project Decision with the following content: "4." By the end of May 2016, the National Assembly finally voted on amendments to the Election Code, including the implementation of a remote electronic vote. Vote 184 MPs: 30, Against 55, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision on the national referendum held on 25 October 2015 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 192 MPs: for 136 against 56, no abstentions. The decision's been made. [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov wants the floor for a negative vote.]] Negative vote? A negative vote only by a Member of the National Assembly who has not spoken in substance. You have the floor, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u118	He voted abstention. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u119	How did you vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u120	I voted. There's not a single voice that's abstentioned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u121	The Patriotic Front Group has voted against a consultation with the Secretariat. We're listening, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u122	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against this decision because it has once again been seen,... [[Noise and lines. Members of the National Assembly shall leave the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u123	Colleagues, I'm asking for a little more patience. Please, no movement in the hall until we're done. I didn't call an interruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u124	... that there was no vote by reason, and there was a vote on party discipline that became a precedent and a relapse in this National Assembly. Moreover, I voted against this decision because the adoption of this Decision gave the green light to bring a new Turkish party into Bulgaria, to rehabilitate new politicians who will seek protection in the Turkish consulate, and to new external intervention in the domestic and domestic political life of Bulgaria. That is why I voted against this decision, because it is not a question of democracy, but a solution to another manipulation, a gigantic manipulation, with which we can now cross out with a thick cross. As of today, it doesn't exist. In Bulgaria we can no longer talk about democracy, and at the very least we can talk about fair elections. Because this Decision has practically legalized the new fraud of the new Election Code and of the new electoral processes. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u125	Colleagues, take a 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12.15. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u126	I invite the MPs to the hall, and the time for rest is definitely up. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. [[Noise and lines.]] The hearing is ongoing. Before we continue with the second reading of the Public Procurement Bill, Mr. Rumen Ivanov, procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose an extension of seven days for proposals between first and second readings under the Law on Electronic Identification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u128	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Rumen Ivanov. [[Noise and lines.]] Stop the vote. There's no quorum, no name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali is missing Ayhan Ahmed Etem is absent. Alexander Rumenov Nenkov- here Alexander Hristov Methodiev- here Aliosman Ibraim Imamov-- here. Altimir Emilov Adamov- here Ana Georgieva Barakova- absent Angel Petrov Naydenov- absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Angelov Dolapchiev- here Antony Antonyev Trenchev- absent Atanas Zafirov- Zafirov is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov- here Atanas Petrov Atanasov- here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov- absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov- absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent. Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov- here Boris Yankov Yachev- absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov- is absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov- absent Borislav Rajchov Milanov- absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev- absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov- absent Valentin Ivanov Radev- absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov- absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov- here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov- here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov- absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov- here Vasil Milanov Antonov- here Velizar Penkov Enchev- here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova- here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov- absent Willy Mladenov Lilkov- here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev- here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov- absent Volen Nikolov Siderov- absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva- absent Galya Simeonova Georgieva- here Georg Danielov Georgiev- here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev- here Georgi Ivanov Andonov- here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov- here Georgi Nikolov Nedev- absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev- absent Georgi Strahilov Svilenski- here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov- here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov- here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski- absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov- absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov- here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen here. Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov- here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova- absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva- absent Daniela Yordanova Panayotova- here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev- absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski- absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov- absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova- here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva- here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov is absent. Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova- absent Dimitar Angelov Gorov- here Dimitar Andreev Delchev- here Dimitar Boychev Petrov- here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev- here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov- absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev- here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov- here Dimitar Krumov Tanev- here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov- here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov- absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov- absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev-here Dobrin Nenov Danev- here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov- here Doncho Spasov Baxanov- here Dora Ilieva Yankova- here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev- here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa- here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev- here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva- here Evgenia Danielova Angelova- here Emil Dimitrov Reinov- here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov- here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent. Erdingh Ismail Hajrula- absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev- here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov- here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov- here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov- absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov- here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski- here Ivan Penkov Ivanov- here Ivan Slavov Ivanov- here Ivan Stefanov Valkov- absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov- here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov- absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov- here Ilian Sashov Todorov- here Iliya Yankov Iliev- absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva- here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov- here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev- absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova- absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov- absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova- here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin here Cyril Dobrev Dobrev- here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev- absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev- here Kircho Georgiev Karagyozov- here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva- here Korman Yakubov Ismailov- here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev- here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov- here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov- here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev- here Krasimir Petrov Petrov- here Krasimir Hristov Jankov- absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka- here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov- here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov- here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov- here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov- absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan is absent. Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manol Trifonov Genov here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva- missing Mariana Georgieva Todorova- here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva- here Maria Shtereva Belova- here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov- here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov- absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova- absent Method Borisov Andreev- here Mehmet Umer Ataman is absent. Miglena Doykova Alexandrova- absent Milen Vassilev Mihov- here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova- here Mithat Sabri Metin here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov- absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov- here Musa Cemal Palev here Mustafa Sally Karadaye- absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed is absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski- here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev- here Nevin Halil Hassan- absent. Nelly Ruskova Petrova- here Neno Hristov Vlaikov- here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski- here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov- here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov- here Petar Vladislavov Slavov- here Petar Georgiev Kadiev- here Petar Georgiev Kanev- absent Petar Ivanov Petrov- here Petar Kostadinov Petrov- here Petar Pandushev Chobanov- absent Peter Hristov Bekov- here Peter Hristov Petrov- here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova- absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov- here Plamen Dulchev Nunev- here Plamen Ivanov Manushev- here Plamen Tachev Petrov- here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova- here Radan Milenov Kanev- absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev- absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova- here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Petrov Petrov- here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - is absent. Additionally recorded after calling them alphabetically in the hall are: Bunyamin Hassan, Borislav Milanov, Atanas Stoyanov, Georgi Nedev, Valentin Nikolov, Georgi Gokov, Dimitar Dimitrov, Ayhan Etem, Borislav Iglev, Boris Yachev, Valeri Zablyanov, Kamen Kostadinov, Magdalena Tasheva, Atanas Merdjanov, Valentin Radzhanov, Mikhail Mikov. We have a quorum, moving on. I put to the vote Mr. Rumen Ivanov's procedural proposal for a seven-day extension of the deadline for proposals under the Law on Electronic Identification. They voted 126 MPs: 121, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, following a review of the transcript of yesterday's meeting, it was found that the vote on the Public Procurement Bill was not put to the vote, but were reported, the Commission's proposals for rejection of art. Article 34 35 by importer, as they find a systematic place further back in the texts of the Law. In their place, the new proposals for editorials of the two members are voted. I must formally put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject art. Article 34 35 by importer. They voted 119 MPs: 105, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROMOTIONS We shall continue on the report with art. 55. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u129	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ............................................................................................................. Proposal by Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 55 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." is in insolvency proceedings; 2. In para. 1 t. 4 after the word "supposed', the text "by decision of the court' shall be added; 3. In para. 1 t. 5 the text of the experience has been replaced by the experience has been shown; 4. In para. 3 the text for other persons who have the power to exercise control in decision-making is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 55: "Acceptances for optional removal' Art. 55. (1) The contracting entity may remove from participating in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant for which any of the following circumstances exist: 1. has been declared bankrupt or in insolvency proceedings, either in liquidation or has concluded an out-of-court agreement with its creditors within the meaning of art. 740 of the Commercial Law, or has ceased its activity, and in the event that the applicant or participant is a foreign person, is in a similar situation resulting from a similar procedure under the law of the State in which it is established; 2. he is deprived of the right to pursue a particular profession or activity under the law of the State in which the act was committed; 3. has concluded an agreement with other persons to distort competition where the infringement has been established by an act of a competent authority; 4. it has been proven to be guilty of non-compliance with a contract or contract for a concession for works or for a service which has resulted in its early termination, payment of benefits or similar penalties, except where the failure affects less than 50 per cent of the value or volume of the contract; 5. He tried to: (a) influence the decision taken by the contracting authority relating to the removal, selection or award, including by providing false or misleading information; or (b) it has received information which may give it undue advantage in the procurement procedure. (2) The contracting authority shall indicate the circumstances under para. 1 in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure or call for confirmation of interest and in the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8, 9 and 13 - in the invitation to participate in negotiations. (3) The grounds under para. 1, t. 5 shall apply to persons representing the participant or the applicant, members of management and supervisory bodies and other persons having the power to exercise control over the decision-making of those bodies. (4) When the contracting authority has imposed a requirement for a lack of circumstances under para. 1, t. 1, it shall be entitled not to remove a candidate or participant from the procedure on that basis if it is demonstrated that it has not ceased its activity and is able to carry out the contract in accordance with the applicable national rules for continuing business in the country in which it is established. This possibility shall be indicated in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure and in the case of procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13 in the opening decision. (5) When setting the requirements for the absence of circumstances under para. 1 The contracting entity shall take into account the subject-matter and volume of the contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u130	Come in for a statement, Mr. Karadjov. Your offer is on the next member. [[Relations from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Although I did not submit a proposal on this text, I see that Mr. Kadyev has submitted. However, I would like to draw attention to what we are about to vote on. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 the grounds for the so-called....................................................................................................... As an instrument, this represents a very risky undertaking, because we say that the contracting entity receives some extraordinary means in which it can assess when to remove someone and when not to remove them. In other words, we are giving too wide an opportunity for subjective evaluation. As an example and illustration of this I will quote you that in para. 1 of art. 55 One of the reasons for such an exclusion is written as follows: When the applicant has attempted to influence the decision of the contracting authority relating to the exclusion, selection or award, including by providing false or misleading information?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u132	That's t. Five, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u133	Yeah, that's t. 5 of para. 1, b. ?................................................................................. 5. Therefore, there is a huge confusion whether the contracting authority has the quality of a court. How can he judge whether information is true or false? How is it that the contracting authority, imagine a minister, will decide what this is?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u134	"Imposting Information. "
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u135	Ladies and gentlemen, it is obviously very subjective of what is misleading. For one minister, misleading information will be one thing, and for another minister it will be completely misleading! Moreover, in the letter "b' of the same point. 5 writes: "To obtain information that can give him an undue advantage in the procurement procedure. There is no, I have not seen in this Law to say by which criteria the contracting authority considers what is an unjustified advantage. That's why I think it was best for this term to drop the whole thing. I didn't propose it, but since Mr. Kadiev has a proposal, you could consider whether this item is. 5 in the form of an editorial proposal to drop out because it carries huge risks to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u136	You should judge and make such an offer if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u137	Yes, I do, if possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u138	You suggest dropping the t. 5 in art. 55, para. 1?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u140	- What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight the philosophy of this provision, which is a novelty for matter. It stems entirely from the philosophy of the directives that we apply. The grounds for exclusion shall be divided into two groups of those that are absolute and binding and those that are relative. In such cases, the award authority may carry out an assessment. These are the cases where the ability to prevent the proper execution of the order is minimal or I would say somewhat subjective. The case, which said colleague Karadzhov, concerns experiments, i.e. an action that probably did not produce the desired effect, that is, an action that has been identified, revealed. There is no problem here to allow the contracting authority to assess the severity of this experience. In any event, this implies that the contracting authority did not mislead or influence it or that the information which gave any undue advantage did not actually give that advantage. To conclude, I would like to make a technical, editorial proposal, honourable Mr. Chairman, concerning the enumeration in para. 4. The text is: the procedure under art. 18, para. 1, t. In the opening decision, 8-10 and 13 if it can become a point. 18, para. 1, t. 8, 9 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u142	"Al.1," t. 8, 9 and 13. I mean, "al." Ten o'clock out?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u143	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u144	Okay. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, thank you for the clarification you have made, because it once again gives me the opportunity to remind you that directives are not mandatory. Yesterday there was a misleading statement by the importer, who said they were not absolutely mandatory. That looks a little like a woman not being absolutely pregnant. Either the directive is mandatory or not mandatory. I stress: they are not mandatory! Each country transposes them and transposes them means transferring them to the conditions of the public-political conditions in the country concerned. With this high level of corruption in the country, and we are at one of the top places in the European Union, moving such an opportunity to remove absolutely arbitrary grounds for contracting entities, and then clogging the judiciary with cases and disputes on this very issue, on absolutely fictional grounds, which I quoted you a moment ago, will be frivolous. Once again, I would like to propose the following. Let's t. 5 in para. 1 of art. 55 drop out. It's not mandatory for contracting entities now, but we're just gonna take this fake tool out of their hands. He'll only trick them into making zulus.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u146	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Karadjov, yesterday I deliberately abstained from participating in this debate because such an interpretation regarding the application of European law is not particularly correct and correct. I'm pointing out this, it's obviously confusing. The regulations shall apply directly. That is, whether or not there is legislation, whether there is legislation, they are applied directly. They're absolutely mandatory. As regards the directives, they are also binding, we must also fulfil the obligation within the relevant time limit, to apply the texts, principles, legal decisions, restrictions, requirements they impose. Once this deadline is over, we report on this implementation, which for this bill must be carried out at the date of April 18th. Once this report is made, an assessment of how properly we have applied the requirements of the regulation in question shall be carried out. It is incorrect to suggest that we are here at: this is yes, this is not, this is not possible, this is not possible. The directives should also be implemented as strictly as possible. And with regard to the non-application or incorrect application of the directives, criminal procedures follow. I draw attention to the following, as there were debates yesterday regarding Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal to my colleague Metodi Andreev in terms of this norm. It's not ignored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. An interesting interpretation of the figures speech, replica and duplicate you made, but you shed light in plenary anyway to make the right decision. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 89 MPs: 9 against 33, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Grozdan Karadjov from the parliamentary tribune, which is to drop the item. 5 in para. 1 of art. 55. Please vote on the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov, made by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 93 MPs: 26, against 28, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov in para. 4 of art. 55 in the last sentence to drop para. 10 and this ends as follows: 18, para. In the opening decision, the Commission expressed doubts as to whether the aid was compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov from the parliamentary tribune. They voted 91 MPs: 85, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 55, edited by the Commission, together with the newly adopted editorial proposal made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Please vote art. 55 on the Commission report, along with the proposal you adopted just now. Vote 87 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 8. Article 55 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u149	Article 56 has the name of the service provider. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. 56 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 56 para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "or that they have been resold, resold or secured' shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: (2) In case the measures taken under para. 1 shall satisfy the requirements of Article 1. 54, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 55, para. 1 within a period of not more than 6 months and are sufficient to ensure the reliability of the applicant or participant, the contracting entity should not remove it from the procedure. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. Alinea 4 is renumbered as para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 56: "Safe-proofing measures" Art. 56. (1) An applicant or participant for whom there are grounds under art. 54, para. 1 and the circumstances referred to by the contracting authority under art. 55, para. 1 has the right to provide evidence that it has taken measures to ensure its reliability despite the existence of the relevant ground for exclusion. To this end, the applicant or participant may demonstrate that: 1. has paid off his obligations under Art. 1. 54, para. 1, t. 3, including accrued interest and/or fines or that they are deferred, deferred or secured; 2. has paid or is in the process of paying due compensation for any damage resulting from the offence or infringement he has committed; 3. has fully clarified the facts and circumstances by actively cooperating with the competent authorities and has implemented specific prescriptions, technical, organisational and personnel measures to prevent new crimes or violations. (2) The contracting authority shall assess the measures taken by the applicant or the participant, taking into account the gravity and specific circumstances of the offence or infringement. (3) If the measures taken by the applicant or the participant are sufficient to ensure its reliability, the contracting authority shall not remove it from the procedure. (4) The reasons for accepting or rejecting the actions taken under para. 1 measures and the evidence submitted shall be indicated in the preliminary selection decision, respectively in the decision on classification or termination of the procedure, depending on the type and stage at which the procedure is located. (5) An applicant or participant who, by an effective sentence or any other act, under the law of the State in which the sentence was delivered or the act was issued shall be deprived of the right to participate in public procurement or concession procedures, shall not be entitled to use the procedure provided for in para. 1 possibility for the time determined by the sentence or act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u150	To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, actually art. 56 can be named as a good day, corruption! This is the content of art. 56 of the Law, good day, corruption! By the way, when considering this article, I would like to draw attention to you that it will clearly show whether this National Assembly is willing to fight corruption or, in fact, to adopt texts of law that promote corruption. And now, to make it clear, I will try to interpret the contents of art. 56, to find out what it's about. Here we go: "Candidate" or a participant for whom there are circumstances under art. 54, para. 1 and those mentioned in the notice, in the invitation to confirm interest or in the invitation to participate, and so on, may now be removed. Will it, however, be removed, or are some vague criteria created here so that it is not removed? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, para. 1 the first fact is that the candidate is convicted. However, you see, he could present documents, evidence and whatever you wanted, that he was no longer convicted, i.e. rehabilitated. Yeah, but on the date of participation in the public procurement contest, he was convicted. So he manipulated or failed to meet the requirements. By what criteria? That ten days later, there was an exemplary decision or a rehab process. Is he gonna be a time player, or is he gonna telepathize the circumstances? Let's go. The same candidate, who, you see, has obligations to the State for non-taxed, for non-payments, will at some point present evidence, let us say that he started on a deferred payment to repay those obligations, which the contracting entity may consider, on the grounds that we do not know, that he is an accurate and honest participant who has won the contest. Yeah, well, no, because this punctual and respectable contestant is totally dishonest. In fact, it uses the public resources of this public procurement to cover its obligations, and those correct ones, who have first repaid their debts to the state, have already been removed. That is why I am telling you, fellow Members, that this article says: "Good day, corruption. Moreover, this article says: "To the contracting authority, the person Hicks, the respective municipal or state clerk: "Mr. Officer, against the corresponding stimulus which can be expressed in different characters............................. these are most often Phoenician characters.... you can close your eyes and make me a participant who fulfils all the conditions of criteria known only to you, which I have stimulated with the corresponding characters. That's what they call corruption. And if today some are roaring that we should adopt anti-corruption law, what about anti-corruption law when you pass corruption into other laws?! How will we fight when we legalize corruption and then pretend to fight against it?! Therefore, colleagues, I will support and my colleagues, the proposal submitted by Mr. Grozdan Karadjov art. 56 drop out because he is a dangerous, harmful member and stimulates corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, say good day to Europe. Say hello in some way to philosophy. I appeal to you and to colleagues who have used such a vocabulary yesterday, please, come on, at least for the framework of the Bulgarian Parliament, perhaps to some extent that this is generally accepted or in any way if not acceptable, that we are used to this pathos and accusations, but bear in mind that these are adopted in due order European acts. I will allow myself to explain very briefly what philosophy is. Imagine that you are today a candidate for a public procurement. Imagine that your colleague next to you is a malicious tax inspector and immediately gives you a revision act with a certain obligation that you neither know nor assume you have such an obligation. What are you gonna do? You're going to argue? While you argue, you will be eliminated from the procedure. Whoever set you up will have already removed you. What will your defense be in this case? To secure the execution in any way, but to continue to argue. That is to say, you will agree with the tax authorities to defer the obligation in question, because it will enter into force immediately until the final act of your dispute on the existence of the tax liability enters into force. Article 56 is a safeguard mechanism for good faith. I don't know how you've seen corruption here, because you've fooled the Chamber a little bit. It's not about crime, it's not about crime. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Although in relation to them, especially to the environmental consequences, if he goes to remove them, why should he be removed from the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Bajraktarov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, I thank you for your reply, because it actually contains more data on corruption mechanisms. What you just said about the so-called "insidious, ill-advised tax inspector" actually reaffirmed my words. Another point is that in DODK, absolutely similar texts have given these opportunities for corruption practices.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u156	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u157	The problem is this, and you said it.. you cannot make it an obligation to declare it an obligation only because of an unscrupulous tax inspector in the DODC you have given him the opportunity to accept it as such or to distort the presumption of innocence and innocence to the guilty until proven guilty. At least you, as a lawyer, understand me perfectly. From here on out. I dare say that you have tried to mislead colleagues because it is crimes that are involved in this context. But here the question is fundamental and it is principled: is it? Because if you're telling me, say good day to Europe, I can't say good day to Europe, which is subject to corruption. I can't say good day to Europe's mistakes, which every day are confirmed that they are not for a good day, but for an ash drop. A fresh example of the so-called "Emigrant policy" which says "Good morning" to German women. We have our own views. The directives and regulations say that the state should solve these problems with its own instruments according to the social and political situation and not carry directly texts that are simply not relevant in Bulgaria. Moreover, they create prerequisites for corruption and corruption, and you know it perfectly. Come on, we're hiding behind Europe! They used to hide behind Moscow, then some started hiding behind Brussels, third behind Washington. But we are Bulgarian MPs and we are here to defend the Bulgarian interest, the interest of the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian business, the Bulgarian people, not to mention further. That's our duty. And you know perfectly well that in art. 56...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u158	Read the text and then speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u159	I've read it 20 times. Don't tell me what to read!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u160	You haven't read it, read it again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u161	On the contrary, I've read it very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u162	Mr. Kirilov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u163	That's it, again, article Good day, corruption. I can give you dozens of facts about such corruption.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. For the next speech, the People's Representative Grozdan Karadzhov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Indeed, the amendments I have tabled in no way aim to delay the process of adopting the Law. When I first came to know this Law, and that was in October, I had a sincere desire to help a little bit of it to be repaired and to be made active. The current texts create too many non-essential functions, as well as in this particular article. 56, of the contracting entity. The contracting authority shall be granted rights as a court and as a prosecutor. I'll tell you why. The contracting authority shall be given the opportunity to assess whether the measures taken by the applicant or the participant, taking into account their severity and the specific circumstances relating to the offence and the infringement, are sufficient. So, if the contracting authority, imagine a director of a department, is chairman of the committee, it should read the relevant attached documents, where a document for the effective verdict comes out, it must decide whether, taking any measures, the potential contractor will correct his disability. It's a crime, ladies and gentlemen. You know that when it comes to particularly serious crimes, not even a judge, but a jury judges. Here you give it to the clerk. I have a very simple proposal in art. 54 we have written that for all these handicaps, as the sentence entered into force, we do not want to quote the entire article, and so on, and so on, we will remove all severe vices of the offer. There the member is clear and accurate. As you can see, there was no dispute over him. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 we are completely deprecating this principle. If you don't drop the whole article. 56 The creation of these really corrupt opportunities, at least to be offered to Mr. Kirilov one edit, to postpone the vote on this text until the end, when we vote on the Law, so that we can come up with an edit, if you agree, and indeed become the undisputed proof of some or other circumstances that will improve the situation of the potential contractor. Otherwise, we're really opening a wide door. The contracting authority can't become a prosecutor and a judge. It's written here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u166	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u167	Mr. Karadjov, I agree with everything you said. But I don't agree with you not naming things by their real names. Open the door for what, Mr. Karadjov? I want to hear from you what opens wide door! And the second thing after talking about crime, let's take as an example the ecological crime: the spill of oil in the bay of the Black Sea quarter and resort, part of the city of Burgas. Two years has passed since this crime. I'm very interested in how the crime has been removed, since they still can't clean up the spill?! If anyone knows how to clean up an oil spill in less than five years, come and set an example. But the crime is a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u168	Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Karadjov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u169	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What Mr. Bayraktarov means has been mentioned many times. I don't want to use harsh words so that you don't get irritated. Perhaps some of you want to protect the act the way it was submitted by the importer. In fact, the main problem here is that there is no political person. There is no political person to ask the questions to give us a political answer. Why exactly are such texts being offered to us in this very fundamental law for the state "The Public Procurement Act"? Yes, they were sent to be responsible, but still officials. They're copying the directives. In this case, in which we are offered the version of art. 56, they open up the possibility of the arbitrariness of the administration, exactly that kind of clerks. On the one hand, some officials open the doors, on the other side, through an open door, the other officials will cut across. Then corruption scandals will again be written to Bulgaria and not criminal procedures, and much more severe sanctions will wait for the country. For your information only, I will read what is a directive: The directive is a legislative act which sets out a goal................................................................................................... the directive............................................................................................................................................... And so on and so forth. Keep that in mind when you vote. You are MPs of the Bulgarian Parliament. You've been sent by the people to judge what's best for them. And when you open doors to corruption, to waste public funds from officials, you shouldn't blindly obey any translation of an act. Maybe the translation is wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Think about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. To speak, the people representative Philip Popov, followed by Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In this text, and in the entire Bill, there are practically mixed concepts and terms. The directives apply without taking into account the terminological effect and do these terms even coincide with the legal concepts that we use here in Bulgaria, in Bulgarian law? Because a large part of the terms in this valuable Bill and here in discussion art. 56, they don't have any compliance with our legislation, they don't have a legal definition. The title itself "Supports to prove reliability".. how will it prove reliability? What does a natural person's reliability mean? Below are described some of these measures: to repay his debts, to pay or be in the process of payment. Well, that and going to the bank can be believed to be part of this payment process. But is it or isn't it? However, we do not have a legal definition, but we are directly implementing the directive, I repeat, without taking into account the legal reality in Bulgaria at all. Next,....... in para........................................................................................ 2, the contracting authority shall assess the measures taken by the applicant or by the private person, taking into account the gravity and specific circumstances of the offence or infringement. Well, then, the contracting authority, to make it part of the judicial authorities, to become a court or prosecutor, as the colleague said, to judge the burden, the punishment, at a later stage we can also give him the opportunity to amnesty. Motives for acceptance or rejection, it's in para. 4 of the measures taken under para. 1 measures and the evidence submitted shall be indicated in the preliminary selection decision. What kind of evidence is that? Can anyone answer what this evidence is and how, in what order they will be collected? Will they be fit according to the order of the PPC? In the order of the GPC? Because they're... [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, we're talking crime here. In what order? In what order? Well, there's no answer here, but there's talk of evidence? In general, the whole proposal, I repeat, and the entire bill finds no place and will lead to even more confusion in its law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u173	Honourable Members, Mr President, honourable Members! Look, I could hardly, in the short time that there is to be said, present a full analysis of the three provisions of Articles 54, 55 and 56. It is assumed and relied on that you have read these texts. By commenting on them, you have seen and respected the specific crimes that are being referred to, because the list of crimes includes many different types of crimes, but since you are talking in general, as you are talking in general, you are attacking a legislative act that belongs to the European Commission, I am reading the specific provision of Directive 2014/24. This is sub-section one, art. 57, p. 6: Any economic operator in one of the situations referred to in § 1 and 4 may provide evidence that the measures taken by him are sufficient to prove his reliability despite the existence of the relevant grounds for exclusion. If it is considered that this evidence is sufficient, the economic operator shall not be excluded from the procurement procedure. To that end, the economic operator shall demonstrate that he has paid or is in the process of payment of compensation for any damage resulting from the offence or infringement has fully clarified the facts and circumstances by actively cooperating with the investigating authorities and has taken specific technical, organisational and personnel measures appropriate to the prevention of new offences or infringements. Measures taken by economic operators shall be assessed taking into account the gravity of the specific circumstances relating to the offence or infringement. If it is assessed that the measures are not sufficient, the economic operator shall receive an opinion with the reasons for that decision. And, colleagues, in order not to read further, you see the degree of compliance. Colleagues who have written the original texts, as they will have to complete a table of compliance with the provisions on which our regulatory act will be valued, and since this provision is a must, I repeat again: the point of this provision is not to limit competition and competition between participants and potential candidates in the public procurement, so that they cannot be formally or otherwise deprived of the right to participate, to be better performers, but to attack them with one or another objection, with one or another obligation, or because one of your employees has condemned you, you have not paid the compensation and indeed to, have been consumed with a criminal composition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u174	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u175	Dear colleague Kirilov, who has protected me from attacking the directives of the European Union. We are not talking here about directives, but about the way they are applied and implemented in Bulgarian legislation. This is what we are talking about, that we cannot directly copy the copy paste to apply European directives in Bulgarian legislation. The delegate on which they are carried out, the methodology, the mechanism is incorrect, because all these things that you have read.Yes, this is written in the directive, but it gives, and before me, the colleague said it, it gives the purpose for the Bulgarian legislator to move towards, and not copy paste of the directive and to apply it in our legislation because there are some legal absurds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche. You won't take advantage. For procedure the word has the popular representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a procedural proposal because it is evident that there is a serious debate, a serious clash of opinions and those, which is why I think it is appropriate for Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to be present, who presented as an importer this bill. In the event that he does not have the opportunity to come, to postpone the examination of art. 56 in a day when Mr. Deputy Prime Minister will be able to give answers to all those who have been exposed here. I think this is the right decision at this point. Otherwise, we risk voting on something that I can see from the eyes of my fellow Members, will vote mechanically, without wanting to offend anyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u178	Are you suggesting that the vote be postponed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u179	Until the arrival of Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, who presented the bill as an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u180	No, it's enough to propose a postponement of the vote, the Deputy Prime Minister will invite him to come. Okay, thanks. A reverse opinion? Invite Deputy Prime Minister Donchev to come. There's no opposite opinion. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to postpone the discussion and the vote, i.e. only to the vote of art. 56. Please vote. They voted 94 MPs: 28 against 31, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Are there any other statements? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 24, against 32, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 10, against 37, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 56, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Vote art. 56 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 75 against 5, abstention 12. Article 56 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u181	Article 57 has the name of the application of the grounds for exclusion. Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments shall be made: 1. At the end of Al. 2 points shall be deleted and the text supplied shall be added unless the applicant or participant in the procedure removes or replaces the members of the merger for which the grounds for exclusion exist. 2. In para. The second sentence is added with the text: The list shall be drawn up and maintained by the Public Procurement Agency and access shall be granted to the contracting entities of procedures. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57, para. 3, p. 2 after the expression..................................................................................... 54, para. 1, t. 4 (a) and 4 (b) A comma is placed and added to the comma. 7 and so on. The following points are inserted after point 8 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: "Applying the grounds for exclusion Art. 57. (1) The contracting authority shall remove from the procedure a candidate or participant for whom the grounds under art. 54, para. 1 and the circumstances referred to by the contracting authority under art. 55, para. 1 occurring before or during the procedure. (2) Paragraph 1 shall also apply where a candidate or participant in the procedure is a association of natural and/or legal persons and a member of the association has any grounds for exclusion. (3) The grounds for exclusion shall apply until the following time limits have expired: 1. 5 years after the entry into force of the sentence in respect of the circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, unless another time limit is specified in the sentence; 2. three years from the date of the occurrence of the circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. 5 (a) and 5 (b) Art. 6 and art. 55, para. 1, t. 2 - 5 unless another time limit is specified in the act establishing the fact. (4) The business entities for which there are circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. Article 5 (a) and (b) 55, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 are included in a list that has an informative character. (5) In the case of suspension under art. 54 and 55 the contracting entity must provide evidence of grounds for exclusion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u182	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal relates to the proposal of colleague Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission, but he offers two points. The first point is very reasonable and I want to do it separately as an editorial proposal, because I think it can be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u184	You can only edit the text proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u185	He's with the Commission. The point is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u186	You say that on Mr. Kadiev's proposal you will be doing editing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u187	Yeah, but let's just vote on the first point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u188	That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u189	And as an editorial proposal, shall I do it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u190	Only by the text of the Commission may it be revised.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u191	It is based on the text of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u192	Okay. Which text of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u193	Okay, I propose the following editorial proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments shall be made: 1. At the end of Al. 2 points shall be deleted and the text shall be added unless the applicant or the participant in the procedure removes or replaces the members of the merger for which the grounds for exclusion are available. This is actually the proposal, as I think it is quite reasonable, as it must be given the opportunity of the alliances that...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u194	So you're adding para. 2 of the Commission text with what Mr. Kadiev proposes?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u195	Yeah, that's right. Only the first part, the first point, which The idea is actually to enable the unification to only remove or replace one of the participants who has broken the Law, which is quite reasonable and logical to give this opportunity. I think that in this part this proposal can be supported, as it is reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u196	This is actually your proposal you're making.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u197	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u198	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u199	With regard to my proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, I do not hide that I am more extreme in my requirement with regard to companies that have not paid salaries to workers and have not paid to subcontractors. But to the extent that I have received assurance and I have seen that the proposals in point. 7 and 8 of my proposal have entered into Articles 54 and 55, so I withdraw my proposal to this part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u200	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 15 against 34, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev has been withdrawn. Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal has just not been accepted, so I cannot put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Ananiev. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for art. 57. Vote 80 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 3. Article 57 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u201	Article 58 by the name of.. Proof of lack of grounds for There is a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 58: "Proveting the absence of grounds for exclusion Art. 58. (1) To demonstrate the absence of grounds for exclusion, the participant selected as a contractor shall provide: 1. for the circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1 "Criminality Certificate'; 2. for the fact that of art. 54, para. 1, t. 3 A certificate from the revenue authorities and a certificate from the municipality at the headquarters of the contracting authority and of the applicant or participant; 3. for the fact that of art. 54, para. 1, t. 6 supplied by the authorities of the Executive Agency. 4. for the circumstances under art. 55, para. 1, t. 1 The certificate issued by the Registry Agency. (2) When in the certificate under para. 1, t. 3 shall contain information on the entry into force of a criminal order or judgment of infringement under art. 54, para. 1, t. 6, the participant shall provide a declaration that the infringement was not committed in the performance of a contract. (3) Where the participant selected as a contractor is a foreign person, he shall submit the relevant document under para. 1 issued by a competent authority under the legislation of the country in which the participant is established. (4) In the cases under para. 3 where, in the country concerned, no documents are issued for those circumstances or where the documents do not include all the circumstances, the participant shall provide a declaration if such a declaration is of legal relevance under the law of the country concerned. (5) Where the declaration is not legally relevant, the participant shall submit an official application made to a competent authority in the country concerned. (6) The contracting authority shall not require the presentation of the documents under para. 1 where the circumstances in them are accessible through a public free register or the information or access to it shall be provided by the competent authority of the contracting entity by official means. "Department II" "Selection criteria". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. Article 59 under the name "Supreme requirements'. Proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev in art. 59, para. 1, t. 1 the word "Agency' is replaced by "Agency'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 59: supplier requirements Art. 59. (1) The contracting authority may determine, in respect of candidates or participants, selection criteria relating to: 1. fitness for professional activity; 2. the economic and financial situation; 3. technical and professional abilities. (2) Contracting entities may only use the selection criteria under this law for candidates or participants which are necessary to establish their ability to perform the contract. The criteria laid down must be consistent with the subject-matter, value, volume and complexity of the contract. Where the contract has lots, the selection criteria for each of the lots shall correspond to the object, value, volume and complexity of the position concerned. (3) Contracting entities shall not be entitled to require other documents to demonstrate compliance with the selection criteria set out in this Law from applicants or participants. (4) In determining the documents for proving the selection criteria, contracting entities shall require primarily those covered by the European Commission's electronic certification database. (5) Contracting entities shall specify the selection criteria and documents demonstrating their execution in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure or in the invitation to confirm interest and in the procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8, 9 and 13 in the call for negotiations. The selection criteria shall specify the minimum eligibility requirements. (6) In the case of participation of associations which are not legal persons, compliance with the selection criteria shall be demonstrated by the grouping participant and not by any of the persons included therein, except for the relevant registration, presentation of a certificate or other condition necessary for the performance of the contract, in accordance with the requirements of a statutory or administrative act and according to the allocation of the participation of the persons in the performance of the activities provided for in the contract establishing the association. (7) Where, under the conditions for the performance of the contract, it is necessary to include those relating to associations and differing from the conditions for individual participants or candidates, they shall be justified by objective reasons and proportionate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u202	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u203	Mr President, honourable Members, once again I am convinced that those who have translated the relevant provisions have somehow not understood the meaning of the individual words written in English. What is given in art. 59, para. 1 and list the three ingredients "who can carry out a professional activity; economic and financial condition and technical professional abilities, this is the suitability of the specific legal person to perform the order. Fitness is a more general category. Fitness for the exercise of professional activity does not assess it the contracting entity of the contract. There is a term adopted in our legislation and it is very clear. I'm the one who suggested that term. It's justice. A person exercising a professional activity must have two very important requirements supposed to have completed the relevant higher education and to a very large extent for the main professional communities to be part of the relevant professional community. For example, for construction engineers, for architects to be members of the relevant professional communities, the chambers for engineers in investment design, architects in investment design. Then we have the competence to pursue the profession. In this case, apparently, those who wrote the text, I repeat, did not understand what it was about. These three ingredients, I will read them, as I suggest...................... for the exercise of professional activity, economic and financial condition, technical and professional abilities, shape the more general concept of the company's ability to participate in the execution of the specific order. I ask you very much not to set precedents, because I feel offended then. How can a contracting entity assess my fitness to exercise professional activity? I have a diploma, I am a member of the relevant professional community, and nothing else is necessary for me to be able to practice this profession. What I'm offering you is perfectly reasonable. It is the same in the Law on the Chamber of Engineers in Investment Design, and there we talk about competence. That's the way it is. It's the way it is. It's the way it is. It is a more general concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u204	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague, Mr. Andreev! I fully share the correctness of the clarification you have made. However, I would like to point out the following. Some of the professions are regulated. The regulated liabilities.. in relation to them is relative to the concept of "governance" when established by a specific subsequent act. This is the case with engineers in investment design, this is also the case with lawyers who take the test of competence, but there are professional activities that are not regulated. Let's say it's not a very relevant example, but for psychologists and for this activity there is still no explicit regulatory regime. They don't have a chamber, for example, but the specialist is a specialist, he has an education, he has proof of education, he has experience, he has proof of experience. For these unregulated professions, we must apply the more general concept. And since the lineage is a good thing, I'm jealous as a law-abiding lawyer, but the whole concept needs to be covered. That's why the more general concept was taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u206	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u207	I usually accept what Mr. Kirilov says. But what's the problem with writing the Fitness, in brackets, in order to clean up this material completely, to clean up this matter? Because then we give a contracting entity an opportunity to assess the suitability. Let us know that there are other regulated professions and that we write......................................... and that we end the matter. This is what I propose to do here as an editorial intervention in the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u208	Any other speeches? Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u209	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to support the last proposed editorial proposal, because it brings together in a wonderful way both Mr. Kirilov's arguments and Mr. Metodi Andreev's, as the essence, the content of what Mr. Metodi Andreev says, is absolutely accurate. It means that if you have a broken hand at the moment, you will not be able to do anything. This is the fitness of the momentary opportunity, the ability is what you have or do not have to do with the relevant matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u210	Mr. Karadjov, what exactly does the text editing sound like? [[Heckling]] Because there is a debate, but there is no editorial proposal in the pure sense of the word.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u211	After the word...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u212	In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 it sounds: "1." the fitness for the exercise of the professional activity. In parentheses to place the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u213	The capacity to place the government in parentheses. So that's the change in t. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u214	Got it. Any lines to Mr. Karadjov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the name and wording of the report of the Commission to art. 58. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 82 MPs: 75, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] In connection with your proposal, not supported by the Commission, will you make a statement, Mr. Andreev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u215	I withdraw my proposal with this editorial amendment that has been proposed here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u216	The text of the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-21.u218	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Andreev, supported in the Chamber: in art. 59, para. 1, t. 1 after the word the capacity to add to the brackets the administration and the text continues with the... for the pursuit of professional activity. We vote on Mr. Andreev's proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 70, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 59 in the version of the Commission, together with the decision we have just adopted to supplement this point. 1. Vote 79 MPs: 75, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Let us also vote on the name of Section II "Selection criteria', which is supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 78, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here we interrupt with the second reading of the Public Procurement Bill. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 22 January 2016 on Friday 11.00 1. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer three questions from MPs Yavor Haytov [[two questions]] ; and Anthony Trenchev. 2. The Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will answer eight questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[three questions]] ; Svetoslav Belemezov; Zhelyo Boychev; Dragomir Stoynev; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; and Georgi Kadiev. 3. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 19 questions from MPs Manol Genov [[two questions]] ; Krasimir Yankov [[two questions]] ; Borislav Iglev; Mihail Mikov and Georgi Svilenski; Mariana Boyadjieva [[three questions]] ; Georgi Bozhinov; Mihail Mikov; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Mihail Mikov and Filip Popov; Vassil Antonov; Yavor Haytov; Nastimir Ananiev; Velizar Enchev [[two questions]] ; and Georgi Kadiev. 4. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer four questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Zhelyo Boychev; and Borislav Iglev. 5. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer a question from the MP Petar Slavov. 6. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Tasco Ermenkov and a question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 7. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Antoni Trenchev; and Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva. 8. Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer five questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; and Dzhevdet Chakarov [[two questions]] ; Nastimir Ananiev; and Milen Mihov and 3 questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev; Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, and Hasan Ademov; Mihail Mikov, Emil Raynov and Philip Popov. 9. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer five questions from the MPs Cornelia Nino; Georgi Kadiev; Velizar Enchev; Antony Trenchev; Nastimir Ananiev. 10. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer five questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Tasco Ermenkov; Stanislav Stanilov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; and Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov. 11. Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will answer 11 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev [[two questions]] ; Mihail Mikov; Georg Georgiev; Rumen Yonchev; Georgi Kuchukov; Velizar Enchev; Stanislav Stanilov [[two questions]] ; Dimitar Dubov; and Christian Vigenin. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for the European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; and Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions from the MPs Dimitar Tanev; Georgi Turnovaliski; Borislav Iglev; and Philip Popov, and three questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; Ivan Stankov; and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev; and Nastimir Ananiev, and to a question with a written answer from the MP Lyubomir Vladimirov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov and to a question with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to two questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; and Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev and to a question with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to three questions from the MPs Ivan Stankov; and Svetla Bachvarova [[two questions]] , a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov; and Neno Vlaikov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov and to a question written by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. Due to illness the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will not participate in the meeting. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Tomorrow, a regular meeting with a starting time of 9.00. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
