ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u1	Dear MPs, good afternoon! Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 14 to 16 September 2016: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers of the Council of Ministers, dated 30 June 2016; Second Draft Law of Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs from 7 July 2016; and of Velizar Enchev from 28 July 2016. 3. First vote on bills amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers the Council of Ministers, the First Law; the Second Law of Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 5. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics (IFK). Importer of the Council of Ministers. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activities of the Higher School of Fraphonie for Administration and Management in Sofia and the Annex to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie and the University Agency of Francophonie on the Activities of the Higher School of Francophonie for Administration and Management in Sofia. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Project for a decision to announce Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship Day. The representatives of the National Assembly Valeri Simeonov, Gemma Grozdanova, Ivan P. Ivanov, Milena Damyanova and Radoslav Stoychev. This is intended to be point one for tomorrow, Thursday, 15 September 2016. 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act. Invoking representatives Menda Stoyanova, Diana Yordanova, Petar K. Petrov, Emil Dimitrov, Rumen Hristov and Korman Ismailov, adopted on the first vote on 21 July 2016. 9. Report of the Commission on the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications for the Use and Application of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2014 and the Report of the Commission on the Control of Security Services, the Application and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2015. 10. Report on the Commission's activities on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints at the 43rd National Assembly for the period December 2014. May 2015, Report on the Commission's activities on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints in the 43rd National Assembly for the period June 2015 and Report on the Commission's activities on interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints in the 43rd National Assembly for the period January 2016 11. Parliamentary control under art. art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, which is scheduled to begin on Friday, at 9.00 pm Friday is dedicated entirely to parliamentary control. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 150 MPs: for 123, against 4, abstention 23. Program accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received several proposals to include relevant points in our weekly programme. First at the time he made his proposal Mr. Velizar Enchev, who proposes to watch the draft declaration, No 645-03-10, to end Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union and freeze its membership in NATO. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to defend your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose a Declaration by the National Assembly on the termination of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union and on the freezing of the membership of our southern neighbour in NATO. The declaration, in summary: The attempt at a military coup in the Republic of Turkey and the subsequent repressive actions of the Turkish government against military, government officials, magistrates, journalists, university and school teachers is sufficient reason for the 40rd National Assembly to ask the European Commission to suspend negotiations on Turkey's membership in the European Union. After President Erdogan announced the introduction of a state of emergency and the termination of the European Convention on Human Rights, the state of human rights in the Republic of Turkey is critically low, forcing the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union to reconsider their attitude towards the EU membership of this country. Even more disturbing is the wish of the head of state of the Republic of Turkey to introduce the death penalty into Turkish law an act which completely contradicts European law, guaranteeing fair and human justice. A country, honourable Members, denying the European Convention on Human Rights and fighting the Kurdish people, has no place not only in the European Union but also in NATO. I therefore propose that the Forty-third National Assembly declare and call on the North Atlantic Pact to freeze Turkey's membership in the military union, until the executive power in Ankara has given guarantees of respect for the rule of law and respect for human rights, respectively, in agreement with the relevant international conventions. Finally, the National Assembly appreciates the critical intervention of the Republic of Turkey in the Syrian Civil War [[the President signals that time has run out]] which largely provokes the European migration crisis. Thank you for your attention. I hope you will support this declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u3	Voting mode. They voted 125 MPs: 7 against 80, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is Mrs. Cornelia Ninova, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, who proposes to participate as the first item of our weekly program hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov on the support of the Bulgarian government for Mrs. Bokova's candidacy as Secretary General of the United Nations. Who's gonna defend the offer? Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the last few days, the focus of the attention of Bulgarian citizens is the ongoing procedure for the election of a new Secretary-General of the United Nations. For the first time in its history, Bulgaria has a candidate for this post, which, in addition, in its public presentations and in its preliminary votes, has established itself among the leading group, from which the winner will be broadcast in October. At the same time, events took place at this final stage, which revealed a desperate attempt to remove the Bulgarian candidate, culmination of a well-organized campaign for discrediting and sabotage, in which Bulgarians, Bulgarian officials, MPs and representatives of international institutions played a key role. An attempt was revealed at the highest international level to make decisions that are a completely sovereign right of Bulgaria, without the participation of Bulgaria, an attempt, foreign leaders to impose on the Bulgarian government actions that will long-term discredit Bulgaria as a country that does not just stand by its candidates, but succumbs to an impact contrary to its interest in favour of foreign interests. The Bulgarian government kept silent for three days, I would add guiltyly, while other governments reacted and explained these events. We Bulgarian MPs want to hear from the Prime Minister what measures will be taken to prove to the outside world that Bulgaria is still a sovereign state; under whose influence and with whose consent the attempt to replace the Bulgarian candidacy has been made; what has the government done to support the candidacy of Irina Bokova; why hasn't it reacted not once to the anti-campaigns and sabotages that have been realized including people close to GERB; why has it allowed a commissioner for whose appointment he is personally responsible to systematically undermine the efforts of the Bulgarian institutions; what actions he plans from today until the end of a campaign to improve Bulgaria's chances to fight for the highest post? The questions are too important to be covered or avoided by monologues in front of the cameras. [[((The President gives a signal that the time has expired.)]] Therefore, on the basis of art. 110 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we propose to hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov on the support of the Bulgarian government for the candidacy of Ms. Irina Bokova as Secretary General of the United Nations and on the grounds of art. 50, para. 3 of the Houses to be included as the first item of the National Assembly's Programme for the period 14 September 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u5	Voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 49, against 66, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u6	Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The issue is extremely important because Bulgaria was involved in international relations at the highest level on the occasion of the election of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. There were official statements from the diplomats of two major European countries "Russia and Germany." We believe that the executive, in the face of the Prime Minister, should inform in full of the circumstances, discussions and reasons which led to these sharp statements by the Russian Foreign Ministry and by the spokesman of the Ministry of the Federal Republic of Germany. Our proposal is when you think it can be included in the program, say, but be within this week. That is why we are proposing a new vote for the Prime Minister's hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u7	It's a re-vote. They voted 150 MPs: 52, against 71, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria....of the MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Georgi Gokov, who propose to include the Second Voting of the Law amending the Law on Family Aid for Children submitted by Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. Mr. Stoinev will defend his offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 15 October 2015, I repeat on 15 October 2015, we, the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria, submitted a bill amending the Law on Family Aid for Children. In this Bill, we continue to insist that the compensation for raising disabled children be 70% of the minimum wage. Nearly one year this bill is delayed, although it was adopted at first reading by all the parliamentary groups, as far as I know and at second reading by the committee responsible, but still this bill is not in plenary. Nearly a year we wait for the government to finally think of children with disabilities, because it is no secret that not only for children with disabilities, but also for all children there is total chaos. Last week it was here that we entrusted the Court of Auditors to check how the State Agency for Child Protection spent the funds for deinstitutionalization, that is, we doubt that there is indeed a particular problem. Our current desire is precisely to increase this compensation and this will cost the budget approximately 17 million. lv. We believe that this is an approximately small amount in view of the large budget surplus that we constantly accumulate every month, which is really good and at the end of the year we may be wondering what to do with these 3 or 4 billion. lv. excess. Our desire is in sensitive, painful spheres for parliament to act more quickly. Yesterday, however, we saw, we learned more from a briefing in the Council of Ministers that, almost, the government is preparing some measures that concern the support of children with disabilities. Perhaps the main reason is that today there will be a protest of mothers, because they are really tired of waiting for this compensation to increase. What we want is for parliament to act much faster...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u9	Time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u10	Not to follow the government, not to be such a populist, but to really do the job when there is a specific bill, when we all approve this bill, just to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u11	Time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u12	I'm saying again... One sentence. When BSP manages, the funds for children with disabilities are always increased. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u13	Thank you. For reverse procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Children with disabilities are a special group to be treated with respect, attention and care, not with populism and to be used for election purposes. [[Applause from GERB.]] I believe that your proposed Bill is not the place to look at it today. As you said, Mr. Stoinev, yesterday the Council of Ministers decided to prepare a comprehensive package of changes to be aimed at supporting children with parents and their families. The Social Assistance Act, the Family Aid Act for Children and the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities are envisaged. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u15	The opposite opinion is the procedure, do you not understand what the procedure is? A reverse opinion. [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u16	The aim is to end this vicious practice from the time of communism when it was supported by a kapak. [[Applause from GERB.]] A differentiated support approach is needed and this is precisely the right policy that we intend to implement with regard to children with disabilities and their parents in order to feel full citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Please vote. They voted 121 MPs: 48 against 11, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u18	Madam Chairman, Mr. Glauchev, first I would like to take the floor in the manner of conduct. I don't know if there's a chance under our Rules of Procedure that someone might be able to give back an opinion on the imported...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u19	Accept that it is in the manner of conducting the procedure... [[(Voices: ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u20	And that's an item on the agenda. But otherwise I have come out to ask for a re-voting because I am genuinely perplexed by what you are doing after years of delay and lack of care on your part, because it is you who have frozen all social payments, including children with disabilities, but in the end we as MPs, as a parliament, have the opportunity to make an adequate decision in favour of these children and to ensure the growth of this payment according to economic dynamics in the country and inflation, and we are not doing it. But your minister, right on the occasion of what the colleague said just now, said that although he later saw that whether a state is civilised and democratic, it is first evident in the attitude towards disadvantaged people. You made a mistake, froze this social payment on the levels reached by the Oresharski office. Admit it and let's move on! Let us look at the Law on which there is consensus by all, and we adopted it in the first vote, including the committee responsible. There is an agreement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and I do not understand your persistence. You're talking about future decisions on your part, decisions of the Council of Ministers. Let's see what you're proposing, because what you're saying in the media, I kind of don't get it. When it comes to populism and election promises, that is exactly what the Council of Ministers did yesterday on the eve of the mothers' protest and the people with disabilities. It's populism because they're naked fairy tales unattractive in a legislative decision. [[Applause from BSP LB.]] Thank you and I want a re-vote because not everyone has been able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u21	Thank you. Yours was also a compilation of revoting and in the manner of conduct, so I let you speak. Please vote, honourable Members. They voted 135 MPs: 53, against 17, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. First the People's Representative Galya Zaharieva, then the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group strongly condemns the act of defamation of the European flag and of the NATO flag, which were trampled publicly during the meeting "Friends of Russia" near Koprinka Dam. It is unacceptable to abuse the feelings of Bulgarian citizens regarding the historical events for achieving political goals in 2016. The unceremonious imposition of division among Bulgarian citizens is unacceptable. It is inappropriate and shameless for the Bulgarians to be opposed to each other by using clichés that whoever loves Russia must be against the European Union and NATO. It is irresponsible for history to be bound by today's international relations. Bulgaria is part of a democratic and fair Europe. Sticking labels on those who have a different interpretation of historical events and the accusations of betrayal to Russia is cynical and outrageous. We strongly oppose the introduction of anti-European and anti-NATO speech, because in the difficult times facing Europe, we need unity, not populism and hatred. Bulgaria is part of a strong and united Europe. We are obliged to maintain understanding and preserve the values of justice and solidarity, not to instill hatred and division. Today, more than ever, we need to oppose populism and behave as a worthy and responsible country of the European Union, because only together can we face the crisis of modern Europe. In all the history of the Bulgarian people there is no flag captured or reviled and this is pride for our country. After Bulgaria's accession to the European Union, the flag of the European Union is our own and sits alongside the Bulgarian flag. That is why this scandalous act, which happened before the leader of the Bulgarian left Cornelia Ninova and in front of the candidate for President General. Rumen Radev [[BSP LB]] , raised by BSP, is outrageous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u23	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u24	Regardless of political bias and coloration, we state that it is absolutely unacceptable to abuse the Bulgarian people's gratitude to those who have helped our country during difficult times. When were the leaders of the BSP sincere? When, with an echoing smile, they silently supported the cynicism of the trampling flags of Europe and NATO or when hours later they thought to condemn the defamation? [[Applause from GERB.]] Isn't that a manifestation of political schizophrenia despite national interest? The ugly step flag in the presence of the leadership of the BSP is another proof that the Bulgarian left refuses to work in the interests of the citizens and increasingly violates the national interest of our country. Nothing justifies this cynicism, not even the unprincipled struggle inside the left. The silence for hours by the leadership of BSP and Rumen Radev is humiliating even for its own voters and indicative of the honour of a general. Since 2007, the European Union has invested almost BGN 25 billion in Bulgaria free of charge, and by 2020, our country is expected to receive an even greater amount. Bulgaria is developing thanks to European solidarity. The government of Boyko Borisov brought our country back to the only right path of development. [[(Loud noise and shouting: "Woo!") by BSP LB. Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u25	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u26	That is why we are saying that we will not allow the suppression of European values and symbols! This, honourable Members, that BSP failed to manage the European funds is not an excuse for encouraging anti-European speaking. We call on those present in the act of vandalism representatives of BSP left Bulgaria to publicly apologize to the entire Bulgarian people! [[Strong noise from BSP LB. Applause by GERB.]] And separate them from the defamation of the flags of Europe and NATO! Otherwise, you openly encourage such behavior. We, honourable Members, of the Parliamentary Group of GERB, believe in the memory and wisdom of our fellow citizens who appreciate what they have achieved and believe in the power of a united Europe. Young people are the future of Bulgaria and they deserve to live with the truth about past events. It is unacceptable for national interest to fall victim to populism because, more than ever, our country needs responsible politicians. Bulgaria needs real policies to reach everyone effectively, not empty talk and cynicism. We believe that our country must adhere to those values that unite us and make us tolerant to each other. [[World and long applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. (Scanding by BSP LB: More! More! More!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u28	There'll be more in a minute. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria.. the President of the Parliamentary Group, the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have clearly distinguished ourselves from the suppression of European symbols. We do it with the same sharpness to this provocation, and to the provocation to be booed and thrown with bottles of Krasimir Velchev the representative of GERB there. [[(Shouts: "Bravo! ") and applause by BSP LB.)]] We both consider it unacceptable. We condemn them equally and understand your emotion of what is dictated. But we are not responsible for the fact that GERB's representative was silent in the defamation of the flags and was thrown and booed. But we distinguish ourselves from these actions, because in this place we were gathered people of all political forces, led by only one of patriotism, protection of national interest, from a desire to restore normal relations with Russia. And this has nothing to do with politics, nor with the provocation that we have been subjected to, including yours, although it is more acute and arrogant, which we also distinguish ourselves from, I repeat. And now, since it is repeated that you are working in the interests of the citizens, let's see how. Dear colleagues of GERB, you said that our proposal to increase funds for children with disabilities is election. To repeat the 15th of October 2015 has been imported! October 2015, when there was no presidential election. You say it's populist. Why, my dear, did you then support him in the Committee on Labour and Social Policy? All your Commissioners have voted for this proposal. If it's populist, why are you doing it? What hypocrisy is this yesterday to stop the protest, the government taking funds to raise funds, and today the MPs of this government to vote against?! Let me remind you that another bill has been submitted since April 20th at the request of the mothers with children with disabilities for dropping the fees in custody cases. This proposal was submitted after the previous meeting with them. Since April 20th, it has not been passed through the Commission at first reading, has not been distributed. This shows the attitude of the political party GERB and the government of Boyko Borisov towards the poor, children with disabilities, the weak people you do not want to support as a state and do not want to lead this policy. Against 3 billion additional revenues, 17 million for children with disabilities. Not for anything, but for sick children with disabilities! And no, no! So, what's this? From hypocrisy up. The Council of Ministers made the biggest decisions yesterday, today, against. That sign is clear. These people are not important to you, these people are not important to the government. You won't be able to fool them again with this behavior. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. I declare that in protest of this hypocrisy today we leave the Chamber and go out to the people. We go to the mothers, we go to the children, as we have always been in opposition and to government. We'll wait outside to see if you have the balls to come explain to them what you're doing today! [[Applause from BSP LB. The parliamentary group of BSP LB is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u30	Thank you. We accept that the first was a personal explanation and the second on behalf of a group, and since no item was really adopted on the agenda, there is no item on the agenda, so a declaration can be made on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u31	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the way that you correct such lies, because submitted on October 15th with a claim that it is not election - against the backdrop of November 6th local elections, is a lie! So please correct such false claims! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u32	Thank you. I accept the remark. Messages. [[Laughter]] There are no bills and draft decisions for the period 3 September " 13 September 2016. To the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. Ms. Tsacheva, I withdraw submitted on 13 July 2016. Draft amendment and supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-90. Member of Parliament Velizar Enchev. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing information for July 2016 on the following indicators: R &amp; D indexes in the Section "R &amp; D" without the trade in cars and motorcycles, Industrial Production Indexes, Construction Production Indexes, Consumer Price Indexes for August 2016. The material is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. We move on to the first item of our agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TURISM LAW. With the Second Voting Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the President of the Commission will introduce you to the public representative Petar Kanev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u33	Colleagues, I will first request admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure: from the Ministry of Tourism Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister, and Albena Mihaylova Secretary General.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u34	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Petar Kanev. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor for the report, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u35	The report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act No 602-01-35, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2016, adopted on the first vote on 21 July 2016. The Act for Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Tourism. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, p. 1 shall be added at the end with the exception of the provisions of art. 116.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u36	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, fully supported by the Commission, as well as the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with the relevant content, according to the Commission Report. We vote on the name of the Law and § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The name and § 1 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u37	Under § 1, there is a proposal from Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Article 116 is amended as follows: Art. 116. (1) The persons conducting hotel services shall keep a register of accommodation tourists with data content validated by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. (2) The register under para. 1 is carried out: 1. through a centralised information system maintained by the Minister of Tourism, accessible through a public web-based or other online access application; 2. by a person appointed to perform hospitality, an information system meeting the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance; 3. in paper form, approved by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. (3) For accommodations of class A. The register under para. 1 shall be administered in accordance with para. 2, p. One or two. (4) For accommodations of class "B" and for tourist cabins, tourist schools and tourist bedrooms, as well as for sites under art. 112, p. 1 the register under para. 1 shall be administered in accordance with para. 2, p. One, two or three. (5) In the Single Tourist Information System, the following data shall be entered from the accommodation registers: 1. for tourists of the Republic of Bulgaria, of a Member State of the European Union, of a State of a State of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation, the number of tourists accommodated, the date of registration and the date of departure; 2. for tourists who are citizens of countries other than those under point 2. 1 The number of tourists accommodated identifying data on persons under art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, date of registration and date of departure. (6) Where the accommodation register is kept according to: 1. para. 2, p. 1... the data under para. 5 shall be automatically reflected in the Single Tourism Information System; 2. para. 2, p. 2 "Hospitalists shall provide automated interoperable data exchange between the register and the Single Tourist Information System; the exchange shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Electronic Management or through interfaces for direct connectivity; 3. para. 2, p. The data shall be entered into the Single Tourist Information System on a daily basis via a publicly accessible web or other interface, and a secure communication session for connectivity; where tourist sites under para. 4 are located in difficult to access or remote areas for which there is no communication connectivity, the entry is made once a week; the areas are defined by the Minister of Tourism and are published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism based on data from the Communications Regulation Commission. (7) The data under para. Five are not public. Access to them shall have: 1. persons carrying out hotel services for the data of the persons who are accommodated by them; 2. the municipality concerned.. about the number of persons accommodated, their citizenship and the number of accommodations carried out on its territory; 3. The National Revenue Agency for the number of persons accommodated, their citizenship and the number of nights they spend on the territory of the whole country; 4. The Minister of the Interior for all data ) (a.k.a. 5; 5. The National Statistical Institute for Summary Statistics, based on the available data in the Single Tourism Information System, in a volume determined by law. (8) The persons under para. 7, p. 2 - 5 may receive the data in the corresponding volume from the Single Tourist Information System under the Law on Electronic Governance. (9) Information from the Unified Tourist Information System may be provided with deleted personal data for residents and particular accommodations in an open machine readable format, for the needs of re-use of public sector information under the Law on Access to Public Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u38	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 1, which shall, after editing the Commission, become § 2 in its report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u39	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137, para. 1, t. 10 words.............................................................................. 116, para. For the purposes of point (a) of the first
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u40	We are voting for the proposal to create a new § 3 by the Commission with its corresponding content on its report. We are voting § 3 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u41	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u42	We vote on § 2 by importer, which is fully supported by the Commission and becomes § 4 in its report. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u43	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 165 is amended as follows: Art. 165. (1) The Minister of Tourism shall develop and maintain the National Tourist Register as a single information system, which shall include the Single Tourism Information System. (2) The Council of Ministers shall adopt a Regulation on the National Tourist Register on a proposal from the Minister of Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u44	We shall vote on § 3 by importer, which shall become § 5 in the Commission's report, after its amendment. We are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u45	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Article 166, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 point (e) is amended as follows: (e) the e-mail address of the website, respectively a connection for access to a software application, for carrying out the activity by electronic means; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 letter (s) in front of the word (s) the letter (s) shall be added. 3. A t is created. 10: ..10. the entries in the Single Tourist Information System.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u46	We are voting § 4 by importer, which, after an amendment by the Commission, becomes § 6 in its report. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u47	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 167 is amended as follows: Art. 167. (1) The mayors of municipalities or officials authorised by them shall keep and maintain an electronic register according to the order of the ordinance under art. 165, para. 2, for all tourist sites in the territory of the municipality with temporary certificates issued and categorized by them sites. (2) The Registers under para. 1 are integrated as an integral part of the National Tourist Register. The entry shall be made by entering the required data under this law through a relevant interface and secure communication.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u48	We are voting § 5 by importer which becomes § 7 in the Commission report after being edited by the same. We are voting § 7 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u49	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... Article 168 shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In para. 1 after the words................................................................................................ 166, para. The following shall be added: 1 - 9 2. In para. 3 is created sentence two: "In case the fee is paid electronically, this is noted in the application and a document does not apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u50	We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Paragraph 8 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u51	The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 179 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 3 words.............................................................................. 116, para. For the purposes of point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, the following 2. In para. 2, p. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / /
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u52	We are voting for the proposal to create a new § 9 with its respective content, according to the Commission report. We are voting § 9 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 85 against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with its corresponding content on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u53	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4. The Commission supports this proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 213 is amended as follows: Art. 213. (1) Hotelier who does not keep a register of accommodated tourists under art. 116, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine of BGN 2000 and a penalty of BGN 7000 shall be imposed on sole traders and legal persons. (2) A hotelier who does not keep the register under para. 1 according to the provisions of art. 116, is punished with a fine of 100 to 1000 BGN, and sole traders and legal entities are subject to a penalty of 500 to 5000 BGN. (3) Who does not provide or carry out data exchange according to the order of art. 116, para. 6, p. 2 and 3 in the Single Tourist Information System is punished with a fine of 1000 BGN and the sole traders and legal entities are subject to a penalty of 5000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u54	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 7, which the Commission shall, after editing, apply in its report as § 10. We are voting § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u55	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... (1) Within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Tourism shall provide interfaces for the relevant exchange of data with the Single Tourism Information System under art. 116, para. 6, p. 2 and 3 and develop and ensure use of the information system under art. 116, para. 2, p. 1. (2) Until the conditions for the exchange of data under para. 1 persons engaged in hotel services shall submit by electronic means the data under art. 116, para. 7, p. 2 to the relevant municipality by reference to a model statement established by the Minister of Tourism and published on the website of the Ministry of Tourism. Until the template is validated, information on the number of nights realised shall be submitted in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u56	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division fully supported by the Commission, as well as the text of the importer for § 8 which, after an amendment by the Commission, becomes § 11. We are voting on the name of the Department of Transport and Final Provisions, as well as § 11 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The name of the section of the Board of Appeal and the final provisions and § 11 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u57	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... Within 12 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Tourism shall provide conditions for entry in the National Tourist Register in accordance with art. 167, para. 2. Until the conditions of entry are met, the persons referred to in art. 167, para. 1 keep the register and send information about the entries in it in the current order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u58	You have the floor to speak, honourable Members of the National Assembly. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote § 9 by importer, which is supported by the Commission, edited by the same and becomes § 12 in its report. We are voting § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u59	Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 of our Rules. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the ordinance under Article. 165, ) (a.k.a. The
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u60	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 13 with its respective content on the Commission report. Please vote on § 13 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 13 of the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. We move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RECEIVED AND THE ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. They are: the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016, Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016, and the People's Representative Velizar Enchev on 28 July 2016. The report of the Defence Committee will introduce you to its President, the People's Representative Miho Mihov. You have the floor, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, allow me at the beginning to propose a procedure for presence in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Defence Mrs. Desislava Yosifova and Deputy Chief of Defence Vice Admiral Emil Evtimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u62	We are voting on the proposal made by MP Miho Mihov. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 2. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. You have the floor, General Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will offer you a more comprehensive and comprehensive report as a full hall, and I believe that this report will prepare us for a proper decision. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 7 July 2016, the Committee on Robbery discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, the adviser of Prime Minister Anyu Angelov and the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Defence Laura Kendova. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. In his statement he stressed that the proposed draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria aims to improve the regulations governing the activities of the Armed Forces, the duties and powers of the authorities for their leadership and command. The bill is part of the political efforts and will to implement the results of the Review of the abilities of the Armed Forces and adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 25 November 2015. The powers and duties of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Defence, the regional governors, departments and legal entities with assigned wartime tasks shall be reviewed and supplemented in order to create a detailed framework of state policy in the area of defence-mobilization preparation as part of the country's defence policy. The Minister of Defence is given additional powers in the direction of logistics provision of the Armed Forces, coordination of the provision of support by the Republic of Bulgaria as host country of coalition forces for peace and military time, policy on the life cycle management of military products and general management of the project management in the ministry, structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. The Minister of Defence is also assigned the preparation and submission to the Council of Ministers of the draft Catalogue of the Republic of Bulgaria for planned support opportunities by the host country, the single list of legal entities, organizations, strategic and other particularly important sites that are important for the defence of the country in military times and for the award of wartime defence tasks on the side of the state authorities, local self-government authorities and local administration and legal entities. The powers of the Chief of Defence on the entire Armed Forces shall be extended, without seizure of powers by the Minister of Defence. He will be responsible for the preparation and state of the operational capabilities not only of the Bulgarian Army, but also of all the formations of the Armed Forces, taking over the immediate leadership of the brigade. Its power to introduce and decommission defence products for the needs of the Armed Forces is revised. Cleanse and complement the functional obligations of entities directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence, assign new tasks to the Armed Forces in peacetime, such as monitoring and early warning of risks and threats to national and collective security and defence, maintaining and developing cyber defence capabilities, as well as performing special flights for state management, when Aviation 28 declares that there are circumstances which make it impossible to execute specific flights. The composition of the Armed Forces shall be cleared and the reserve shall be removed from it and the responsibilities of validating operations plans shall be made clear as an essential part of the command and management system. A new conceptual vision is proposed about the way military service is performed by soldiers, sergeants and officers. It is proposed that the age for admission of soldiers should be reduced from 32 to 28 years old, the age limit also from 50 to 46 years old, and that a limitation should be introduced in the duration of their contracts, aiming to rejuvenate the military staff for a more effective performance of their tasks, as well as to create an opportunity to fill the reserve after military service is completed. At the same time, this category of servicemen is given the opportunity to acquire the necessary 18 years actually served in military service in order to realize their right to early retirement under art. 69 of the Social Security Code. An increase in the age limit of sergeants, officers' candidates, junior and senior officers of 55 is proposed to ensure stability in the Armed Forces through the long-term opportunity of all categories of servicemen. The circle of entitled persons who will be able to reapply for military service is extended by dropping some of the existing restrictions. A longer period of 6 months shall be fixed for the secondment of servicemen to participate in operations and missions outside the territory of the country, but only in the case of the taking of separate positions or positions in the headquarters of operations or missions, according to the relevant international arrangements, but not more than one year. The reduction of the maximum period for military stay and the post of the servicemen under Article 3 shall be removed. 154, due to the lack of real opportunity for its practical realization. A requirement is introduced for the servicemen to comply with an ethical code of conduct, which will be validated by the Minister of Defence. The application to Art. 1 shall be amended as follows: 165, t. 7 of the Law, which, when withdrawing or refusing to grant permission for access to classified information, should terminate the military service contract and the serviceman should be released from military service. By analogy with the Ministry of Interior Act and the SANS Act, it is envisaged that the exemption from military service will only take place if the serviceman refuses to take a position for which access to qualified information is not required. A new ground for termination of military service contracts is proposed for the serviceman's retirement and age pension. The hypothesis in which servicemen can use weapons as a last resort is reviewed in order to ensure the effective performance of their duties and the existence of initial clarity of their rights and obligations in the use of weapons in connection with the implementation of their military service in peacetime. There is a more precise regulation of the provisions concerning the status of students trained in higher military schools for the needs of the Ministry of Defence, but also for other departments. In the debates on the draft law took part the MPs Hristo Gadzhev, Miho Mihov, Petar Slavov, Angel Naydenov, Valentin Radev, Neno Vlaikov and the adviser of Prime Minister Anyu Angelov. In their speeches, the MPs agreed that the proposed changes to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are necessary and timely and will improve the regulations, will contribute to overcoming the problems of non-completion in the Armed Forces and increasing interest in the military profession. At the same time, some of the MPs have expressed doubts that the extension of the powers of the Chief of Defence without delegation of specific command and management rights over all the structures of the Armed Forces will be effective and successful. The break-up of the brigade "Special Forces" from the composition of the Bulgarian Army poses dangers to its provision, filling with quality personnel and its use in peace time and in the system of military operations for military time. The attempts continue to transfer control functions from one instance to another and devoenise senior military positions, as Chief Inspector of the Ministry of Defence Inspectorate, making it difficult for the careers of the officers' staff to grow. There are concerns that the proposed changes in military service performance by the military staff, sergeants and officers, without a substantial change in wages and implementation of a wider package of social benefits, will increase the non-completion in the Armed Forces, instead of solving the problem with it. There were doubts that the frequent change of positions in the Law spoke about the imperfection of the Law and subjective interpretation by the various teams of the Ministry of Defence. Power laws should be more resistant to change and should be adopted unanimously by all political forces. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 12 votes for the Council of Bulgaria, without the opposition and 3 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602 01 39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. There is also a report from the Defence Committee. It is regarding proposals Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act and is submitted by Mr. Karakachanov and a group of MPs. Please submit the report on a rotational basis, Mr. Iankov will report the second report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-87, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and group Members of the Parliament on 7 July 2016 At a meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Defence Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Robbery and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-87, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev and Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov. Prof. Petyo Hadzhiev and Marin Grigorov from the Movement for the Protection of Citizens and the State were also present. The Bill proposes the restoration of the country's military service as an obligation of citizens to participate in its defence in one of the professional military service carried out on the basis of a contract in its current version. The possibility of voluntary military service for a particular category of persons based on a contract is also regulated. The reasons of the importers are that the basis for the proposed Draft is the alignment of the national defence in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, where in art. 59, para.1 states that the protection of the country is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen. Along with this, the current sharp deterioration of security parameters in Europe, the obvious reduction in the real combatability of the Armed Forces and the difficult assembly of wartime formations with quality personnel and specialists for certain specialties, were introduced as main motives. With the proposals, the importers introduce a change in some of the texts of the current Law on Defence and Armed Forces, regulating professional military service and introducing a new section to establish legal provisions on the obligations of citizens in respect of the country's defence in the sense of the elective military service. The meeting was attended by 16 MPs. The reasons of the importers were presented by the MP Milen Mihov. Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev said the Ministry of Defence did not find the proposals appropriate and does not share the opinion of the importers, which is detailed in the previous opinion. People's representatives Vladimir Toshev, Krasimir Karakachanov, Dimitar Dimitrov, Petar Slavov, Milen Mihov, Yanko Yankov, Angel Naydenov, Hristo Gadzhev, Plamen Manushev, Korman Ismailov and Miho Mihov spoke. Disagree with the proposals of the importers to introduce a set military service expressed the people's representative Vladimir Toshev. He pointed out that the proposals presented in the Bill are archaic, have a clear political focus and are not feasible in terms of financial costs, demographic status and public moods. The bankruptcy of the proposal in terms of the requirements for the deep professionalization of major specialities in the armed forces and the difficult situation with military infrastructure was highlighted. In an extensive statement the introduction of the Bill. "The People's Representative Krasimir Karakachanov stressed the political nature of the bill given the extremely complex external-political situation, which today is radically different with the conditions under which the decision on the professionalization of the army was made in 2007. Voicing disagreement with the Ministry of Defence's estimates that the set-up principle is more expensive, he justified the higher initial costs of introducing a set military service with the failed system of collective protection, according to him. In his speech the national representative Dimitar Dimitrov expressed complete disagreement with the motives of the importers and pointed out that the issue is not political, but entirely populist and urged to stop the division and abuse of moods in society. He stressed that terrorism, as the main threat of today's times, cannot be fought successfully against a number of armed forces. People's representative Petar Slavov pointed out that, trying to understand the motives of the importers, he considered it more necessary to carry out modernization of the army and pointed out that today even the leadership of the armed forces is strongly opposed to the restoration of the military service. People's representative Ianko Iankov said that in many ways importers have the right to express concern over the state of the army and agrees with the main considerations underlying the reasons of the bill. Nihilism, indifference and incompetence in terms of the country's defences, demonstrated by parts of society and governance, pose unconceived dangers. At the same time he pointed out the extreme importance and proper understanding of the importance of collective protection for a small country like ours. We need a highly efficient army and modernization cannot be delayed, which is, in essence, our contribution to collective protection. The MPs said: Angel Naydenov, Hristo Gadzhev, Plamen Manushev and Korman Ismailov expressed disagreement and presented arguments against the restoration of the military service. The Chairman of the Defence Committee Miho Mihov pointed out that despite the sharing of the concerns of the importers about the state of the army and the defence of the country, the professionalization of the Bulgarian Army is not so complete and assessed to the effect that it cannot be considered to fulfil its obligations under the Constitution. He pointed out that the protection of the Fatherland is not measured only by carrying arms and passing through military service and pointed out the steps taken in recent years by the Ministry of Defence in terms of preparing young people. The efforts of the state must be aimed at completing the serious incompetence of the professional army and deepening the quality of professional specialised training. After the discussion, 16 MPs took part in the vote: with 2 votes........ 1 vote.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. He does not support the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-87, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Following is a third report from the Defence Committee on the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act by the MP Mr. Velizar Enchev. General Mihov, it's your move again to report the next report. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u67	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Minister of Defence, Mr. Vice Admiral! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654 01 98, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 28 July 2016. At a meeting held on 1 September 2016, the Defence Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-98, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 28 July 2016. There were 15 MPs present. People's representative Velizar Enchev and his expert Mr. Radoslav Peshlevski took part in the meeting. The Bill proposes young people aged 18 years old to enter the Military and Vocational Training Centre of the Ministry of Defence on a voluntary basis under the conditions of transition to a six-month service and for that period acquire an initial military training and civic specialty in the field of construction and transport. The reasons were presented by the importer of the bill, the MP Velizar Enchev. The same one pointed out that in recent years, without being divided ethnically, there has been an increase in the contingent of 18-year-olds who have neither military training nor civic specialty, even secondary education. It is pointed out that with the creation of a special centre at the Ministry of Defence based on the Department of Construction and Reconstruction, such young people on a voluntary basis will be able to receive initial military training and at the same time will be provided with training for specialties from transport and construction. Drivers, plumbers, installers, builders, painters and others. The advantage of the bill, according to the importer, is that this will end the tendency to exclude entire social and minority groups from the labour market by obtaining a specialty and, at the same time, the country's defence capability will be supported with the initial military training. Former Chief of Construction Forces General. Radoslav Peshlevski made a technical analysis of what was proposed in the Bill and pointed out that the idea was to step on capacity, traditions and still existing in severely reduced but with certain abilities material and technical base of the former Construction Forces..................................... According to him, this is possible by minimal means, but no justification has been provided in this regard. The MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Korman Ismailov, Vladimir Toshev, Yanko Yankov and Miho Mihov spoke. People's representative Krasimir Karakachanov defended the idea as very good because according to him, regardless of ethnicity, it is a fact that 90% of Roma in Bulgaria are illiterate. The proposal is for people from such groups, after appropriate training at the training center to receive professional training and to be employed in the future for appropriate work. People's representative Korman Ismailov highlighted the reform of education, especially in vocational training and noted that Bulgarian young people will be able to start training from the seventh and eighth grade in the professional directions indicated in the Law. The same noted that the main function of Construction Forces was directed more towards the construction of the country's heavy infrastructure. According to him, the idea and form for realization of this project has been shifted. People's representative Vladimir Toshev agreed that the issue is serious and needs a thorough discussion. The same shared his belief that with the proposal the Ministry of Defence was least affected because in practice in the project the military part is an addition to the training. According to him, in the Bill there is a desire on a state-based basis, and it is in the Ministry of Defence, to prepare labor, which will then move into the private sector. According to the MP Yanko Yankov, the issue is extremely topical and important for Bulgaria. At the same time, it cannot be implemented in any way with the proposed legal technique. The proposal lacks a number of criteria, it is not clear what class of completed education is involved. The establishment of a single training programme is impossible and it is an illusion to say that jobs will be created for those trained in such a centre. It is necessary to create a universal mechanism for solving the problems mentioned in the Bill, but this is not the work of the Ministry of Defence at all. This must be a social policy combined with an educational policy. The dignity of the project is to show that Bulgaria has such a real problem. In conclusion, Commission President Miho Mihov referred to the revision of the bill as a first step towards civil information on the existence of such an idea. At the same time, he expressed concern that the idea, such as concern for the training and realization in the lives of such young people and girls, may not be covered by the arguments for the protection of this Bill and the same are quite far apart from each other. The very principle of voluntaryity was applied for the first time in the army when the Law adopted the alternative service and it did not receive popularity. At the same time, in the proposed Bill is disturbing the prediction of one-month military training and as the other MPs noted its place is not in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which is a weak moment in the defence of the idea. Furthermore, the importer does not provide any financial justification. We need opinions from the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Education and Science. A negative opinion on the bill was sent by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. After the discussion, 15 MPs took part in the vote: 3 votes for the defence, 1 vote against the defence committee and 11 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He does not support the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-98, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 28 July 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u68	Thank you, General Mihov. That concludes the committee reports. The three bills are allocated to this Commission. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to motivate their projects? The MP Mr. Karakachanov first stated a wish, then Mr. Enchev. Generally speaking, colleagues, we will debate on three draft laws of the Ministry of Defence, on the selection of military service of Mr. Karakachanov, and Mr. Enchev, historically, the Law on Construction Forces, if I may say so. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Patriotic Front, we have introduced a bill concerning amendments to the Defence and Armed Forces Act. The target is clear. There is a lot of comment in society, and we commented on it in the Defence Committee, too, on the restoration of military service and the introduction of alternative military service to create literate working habits for young people who do not have education. Recruitment military service for six months as military training, alternative military service, 12 months, that is, double. Young people who have missed the opportunity given by the Constitution by the age of 16 to receive free education, then wait only for social funds to support themselves and have no intention of working because they have no profession, to be able to acquire a profession, some knowledge, some literacy. In our bill, we have also provided for the possibility of voluntary service. Voluntary service for those Bulgarian citizens who have undergone six months of training in the selection service for Bulgarian citizens from 28 to 32 years of age who have not had the opportunity to serve in the recruitment army and for women, between 19 and 28 years of age who wish. In the Bill, we have also provided for the young people who have undergone a set of military service with the appropriate education to undergo training for staff of the sergeant's staff and also to complete the officer's corps, as was known, for retired officers. These are basically our proposals. They are based on the requirements of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, in which it is very clearly and categorically written: Art. 59. (1) The protection of the Fatherland shall be a duty and honor for every Bulgarian citizen............................................................................................ For this reason, I do not agree with the arguments put forward by some Members in this House, including my esteemed President, General Mihov, that it was not precisely about a set military service. I repeat, the protection of the Fatherland is a duty for every Bulgarian citizen. In the same article. 59 is also al. 2 where it writes: "The preparation of citizens for the protection of the Fatherland is governed by law. There's no such law. The amendments to the Constitution are from 1 January 2008, it is now 14 September 2016. There's no such law. That is, what is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen to have normal training and if he has to defend the country, he cannot do it because he does not have the necessary military training. One of our arguments was, I start with the argument, I set out our main proposals. The fact is that in 2007 the amendments to the Constitution were carried out quickly, absolutely conjuncturally, like most of the things that have been done in this Chamber in the last 25 years............................................................... But then, I remember, the arguments were: by introducing a professional army, it would be smaller. However, this professional army will be well equipped, well trained and well paid. In the Commission, I asked the question, I received no answer, I also asked you fellow Members of the National Assembly. Of these three things our army has actually become smaller, but neither is it better trained nor well armed nor well paid. The fact that there are 5,100 people in the army who do not have a package shows that it is not well paid and this is not a prestigious activity for young people. The fact that in the same Defence Committee, almost every meeting, we listen to the complaint of different types of troops about the shortage of modern weapons, the lack of funds for normal clothing, communications, transport means and so on shows that the action of the Bulgarian Parliament to change the 2007 Constitution, which enters into force from 1 January 2008, is actually not effective. And the practice shows it. The fact is that in the Bulgarian Army they are mainly for personnel service, mostly, I do not say all young people, led by the goal of finding some work. At the first opportunity to find a better job they leave the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. There are a lot of facts in this regard. Especially in Karlovo, how many young people who left the military service to go to work at military factories, not to say, perhaps over 100 or at least tens. What does that say? That with the mechanism we introduced since 1 January 2008, we do not solve the security problems of the Republic of Bulgaria. And if, in 2007, when the House was debating the issue of our recent membership in the European Union, several years before that, NATO may have created certain illusions in the MPs that already as part of NATO, as part of the European Union, there is someone to take care of our security, that the situation in the world is calm and in the Balkans has calmed down after the Yugoslav crisis, then the situation in the world today shows otherwise, honourable ladies and gentlemen of the people. It shows in the last five or six years of increasing tensions, creating non-traditional military alliances, regardless of the existing NATO bloc. It shows the strengthening of extremism, but not only in the form of attacks, but the creation of large structures, armed, well-trained structures, which we call terrorists. [[Heckling]] Yeah, they're terrorists in manifesto and in a way of thinking, but as a manifestation, they're whole armies. ISIL's armies are not a bunch of people gathered from a stake and rope, they are people who receive military training and who perform battle tasks. As you can see, the Syrian army, the Russian, the American army, and now the Turkish army are having a hard time dealing with them. The challenges are completely different. Our argument that it is necessary to restore the military service is several. First, what we are talking about is the challenges facing the security of Bulgaria. Second, insufficient training of the current Bulgarian army in its ability to fulfill its constitutional obligation.................................................................................................... All these things have been duly and very calmly discussed by us in the Commission. Unfortunately, from some colleagues, the BSP colleagues are gone, I expected some understanding, as they always talk about patriotism, the army, the police and so on. A former colonel told me that this was political action! Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are working in the National Assembly of Bulgaria an institution where politicians work and we are not the Bulgarian opera or the Bulgarian ballet! And now I'm listening to them talk about patriotism again! They did not support... was not timely. What's not timely? I understand that at their insistence in 2007, we made this mistake in the Constitution, but even now when we are discussing the Army Act, the Armed Forces, which for me and for you who are here in the Chamber, means a debate on the security of Bulgaria, those people who are very concerned are gone! I don't accept their arguments! I also do not accept the arguments of some Members who said that it was not precisely because in Europe or in the world it was different. I quote the countries, most of them NATO, in which there is a set military service: Turkey, Greece, I list other European countries - Austria, Norway, Denmark, Switzerland! Lithuania is currently discussing the return of the military service. There's a similar debate in Germany. And in Austria, in which there is a set of military service, they discuss the possibility of making it 12 months! And you are telling me that there was no precedent in Europe or in the world and no one was thinking about it! We, because we are very sure and very democratic, should not do this! Unfortunately, the Ministry of Defence came up with opinions which, in order not to call them a round lie, were false. In my arguments, I referred to this protocol. [[shows him]] The Ministry of Defence held meetings at the dates 3, 5 and 7 March 2016, where it was estimated how much the service of a select soldier would go out, i.e. how much it would cost the state, and a personnel soldier, how many young people would serve. My colleague Mihov and the colleagues from the Patriotic Front, making the bill, stepped on these estimates. There they are. [[Shows them.]] Here are the estimates, the minutes of the meetings are on March 2, 7 and 8, and I apologize, 2016. These estimates that if we introduce the military service in a set of six months, which we will call, we will have to call no more than five to seven thousand people, that the cost of a select serviceman is BGN 400. every month, and for one camera, it's 1200! The Ministry of Defense came up with some arguments that, notice, the army personnel would be worth twice as much as the personnel! It's like someone saying in this room that 120 MPs in parliament would be worth more to the state than 240. It's just not serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u70	Mr. Karakachanov, please graduate. You'll be able to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm graduating. Mr. Chairman, I apologize for the overdue time. My fellow Members, I hope we will have a normal debate, because very often, when we have debated here, proposals on the Patriotic Front have been rejected and then accepted! I am mentioning the construction of the fence, which has been very debauched "now we are doing it and bragging. The idea of sending the armed forces to the border. Then he was rejected by the president and by the military minister the army is now at the border. Why do we have to drink the Black Sea again to realize that the water in it is salty? Thank you for your attention. Once again, I apologize, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u72	We understand you, Mr. Karakachanov. Mr. Enchev, you have the floor to state the reasons for your bill being tabled. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose in art. 133 to create paragraphs 3 and 4 saying the following: I stress this, young people who are 18 years old at the Defence Ministry's Military and Vocational Training Centre. (4) For the time of the training, young people pass through six months of military and civil training, gaining military and civil specialty in the field of construction and transport. I'm making a line here right now to the General's report. Mihov "Nowhere in my proposal" says in the Bill that the military training will be one month, and the remaining five months will be dedicated to civil preparation. It will be in the prerogatives of this Center if you support my proposal. It is no secret that in recent years, honourable Members, there has been an increase in the contingent of young people aged 18, who, as I said, have neither military training nor civic specialty, and which is the most tragic or secondary education. The creation of such a Centre for Military and Civil Training at the Ministry of Defence, which will volunteer to receive a military and civic specialty, will help to end the lasting trends for worryingly reducing the employment of the working part of the population, and which is even more worrying................................................................................of the social groups of the labour market. During the training, as you understand, young people will receive their lack of military training and will acquire a specialty in some areas that I will list: driver, auto mechanic, plumber, installer, builder, builder painter, plasterer, portal tap crane hydrant, hairdresser and so on. It's a very long nomenclature. The advantage, honourable Members, of this bill is that it not only supports the country's defence capacity, but will also give a profession to non-graduate secondary education with the civil specialty acquired during the six months of preparation. For the above reasons, I am now addressing the ruling GERB party, last year Deputy Prime Minister Ivaylo Kalfin sent Prime Minister Borisov a report in which he essentially approved this initiative framework and proposed the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to take over the methodical and administrative management of the General Government. I would like to recall that this GUSW of 2000 is the beneficiary of the construction troops closed in 2000. For existing objective reasons, at present, this state-owned company, which continues to exist but is on artificial respiration, is not an equal participant in the construction market and is essentially a secluded construction function. It will be of great benefit to the public to transform GUSW into the Centre for Military and Professional Training at the Ministry of Defence. Using the experience of the recent past, this Center will be able to develop the following activities: firstly, training staff in various specialties with exported affiliates in the areas of high unemployment; secondly, creating jobs and employing successful graduates of young people; and thirdly, building homes for socially weak families. Besides having the support of Deputy Prime Minister Kalfin, Prime Minister Borisov's principled support, he has the support of both the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Bulgarian Industrial Association. In a few sentences, I'll synthesize their opinions. Here, upstairs, fellow Members, in the box is General. Peshleevski "The Last Commander of Construction Forces and Department of Construction and Reconstruction." According to his information prepared by experts with whom he works, the launch of the proposed Center will cost the state no more than 150,000. lv. As I said, in 2015, Minister Kalfin approved this idea in principle and agreed with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. In this sense, I offer your attention to another argument that has been given to me by General. Peslevski. Unfortunately, for procedural reasons, he cannot stand on this stand, but I will make two additional arguments. According to him, two are the main tasks to be decided by the Centre. The first is the military and professional training of the young people I talked about. The second is the carrying out of large-scale emergency reconstruction works for disasters, accidents and accidents, even more in storage at GWW and in many other places there are structures that can be used immediately. So that you don't waste any extra money, as gene points out. Peshleevski, the existing material base and the existing training centers can be used as one of them, the best prepared and with the best material base, is the Center at the Higher Construction School in Sukhdol. The former Higher Construction School, as this Center in Sudol is licensed to prepare 29 specialties! This is what he says in his letter to Minister Kalfin, the President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Akad. Stefan Vodenicharov. On behalf of the Academy he categorically stands behind this idea and states that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences will do what is necessary to participate in the methodical, professional part in the preparation of specialists in the civil field. He also believes that the timely implementation of these social policies would lead to a reduction in emigration and demographic collapse, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to help our country's economic stabilisation process. And it ends that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is entirely behind this idea. Academic Stefan Vodenicharov! The position until then Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Kalfin of the President of the Bulgarian Industrial Association Bozidar Danev is quite justified. In his letter of 25 January 2016, Mr. Danev exported the following facts: firstly, he was surprised not to say outraged that the General Government I am making this clarification so that I do not cause confusion in you and in our viewers. The main function of this management is the educational and qualification expertise, even more so, as Mr Danev pointed out, until 2000 at GUSW around 7 thousand. young people each year have received a civic profession in more than 40 specialties of construction and installation, machinery, drivers and others, and together with this, as Danev points out, and this is particularly important, honourable colleagues, every year over 2 thousand. young people have graduated from over 50 specialized courses, of which 40% were from the Roma community. And today GUSW has programs with 40 specialties, but this potential is not used at all. Therefore Bozidar Danev, on behalf of the Bulgarian Industrial Association, is entirely behind this proposal. Now, to be most convincing, I'm showing you the signature. [[shows the petition]] of several hundred young people in the municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv District, several hundred young people are from the Roma community, and there are Muslims as well, I pay attention to the honourable colleagues from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, ten-fifteen-twenty Muslims who ask and say: "We, the undersigned residents of the municipality of Rodopi, support the proposal of the Center for Vocational Training, in which to prepare for major construction specialties and, respectively, possible military training, unemployed young people and citizens in working age from the municipality of Rodopi! Hundreds, hundreds of signatures! This is perhaps the strongest argument, all the more so, I repeat once again that this draft law speaks of a voluntary principle, we are not talking in any way about compulsory mobilisation in the so-called Building Forces. Finally, I would like to say that if it were not for these Building Forces, much of the State's material and technical base of the People's Republic of Bulgaria, which, as we know to this day, is privatized and, above all, concession would not exist. GUSV "Master management of the construction forces" is the most deserved for the construction of major infrastructure sites in the country. Should I point to the highway, the stretch to Pravets? We all know by 1989 what heroic efforts, and especially professional efforts, made the workers of the General Management of Building Forces. We will, in essence, restore these Building Forces, but of course, by another name, taking into account the new trends, our membership in the European Union, and also respecting the Bulgarian Constitution. Thank you for your attention. I hope for your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. These are the three proposed for discussion of the Bill. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. They can be, I recall, parallel to the three bills. Would you like to make a statement? Mr. Mihov at the last minute said he wanted to speak. Most likely after him will begin the other speeches Mr. Slavov after Mr. Mihov. Docent Mihov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u75	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will speak in defence naturally of our bill, but I will try to make a small summary of the debate so far. Unfortunately for us, we can say that the debate on such a serious matter seems to give way to the question. Our opponents have brought up two main groups of arguments against our proposal. The first, which is essential, which deserves attention, is that such a change with the recovery of the army is unnecessary. It must not be carried out. This is an essential group of arguments. However, only two main arguments have been raised in this group against that group. The first is that this is anachronism from the end of the XIX century and the first half of the 20th century, i.e. from the time of the scientific and technical revolution and the corresponding ways of fighting war then. Today, the world and the technological revolution now impose another type of military action, another type of war, another type of armed force. Unfortunately, in addition to the generalization that this is anachronism, we have not heard an argumentation of this thesis, although among our opponents there are respected experts and specialists in the military case, in the history of military work and strategy. Mr. Karakachanov has already mentioned that in Europe, in our region even, and countries that have given up this principle, seriously discuss the restoration of the army, which practically disproves the historically past nature of this type of military training and armed forces. The second argument was that the barracks should not be rebuilt, so popularly put, because it becomes a prison and this cannot be accomplished because it is violence to young people. This argument suffers from a major moral deficit because comparing the army to a prison is like comparing the brave Bulgarian soldier to a criminal. The other large part of the arguments were that we can summarize them in the following series: we cannot do this, we have no means, we have no with what, we have no where. The main argument in this group was that the army was more expensive than the army. Mr. Nanchev in the Commission mentioned two numbers, arguing this statement, pointing out that the maintenance of a personnel soldier is BGN 1396. and 77 C.E. a month, and a single recruit soldier supports himself for £9317. per year. Considering the time gap and the amount, it comes to the conclusion that the maintenance of a select soldier is BGN 776. and 42 C.E. per month, which includes inexplicably why, and remuneration of 420 BGN. minimum wage. These numbers speak for themselves. It is illogical to argue that we will support a set army more expensive than a single personnel army, but this debate opposes the selection service and the personnel service something that is absent in our bill. It is very clear and I am obliged to say it from this tribune that the army or the recruitment service is not an alternative to the army and the professional army. It is an opportunity to solve deficits in the preparation, assembly of the reserve of the Armed Forces and a source to complete the composition of our personnel army. Army alimony calculations show that today, 5100 vacations in the army remain unoccupied. It takes 115 million. lv. to secure these places. The Ministry itself raises the question that the wage costs, the wages of the servicemen, should be increased by 10%, that funds should be provided for the construction of kindergartens, the social arrangement and work of the families of our servicemen. All these measures are justified, they are necessary and we stand firm behind them. But they show that, along with the wages of the personnel soldiers, the cadre army also requires other accompanying costs which are by no means to be overlooked. With these arguments, we are putting to debate this issue, which is of the utmost importance for ensuring the security of the country and those challenges that are coming with our time. We're all parents. Each of us has children, some of us have grandchildren. The world is changing, and unfortunately, it's changing towards bad. The war is approaching the borders of Bulgaria, the war is approaching Europe, and we will make a big mistake if we do not allow our sons and grandchildren to be ready if, God forbid, one day the challenges confront them to defend themselves, to protect their homeland, to protect the life, freedom and democracy of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Next statement. "The People's Representative Petar Slavov. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group will support the Council of Ministers' bill. A lot has already been said in the reports that have been read, and I have no intention of repeating them. But indeed he addresses some of the most important problems at the moment that the army has to deal with, including re-arming, new defense capabilities, creating forces that can quickly and adequately react in a critical situation, so that he will receive our support. We believe that it is timely and we should support it all. For the other two bills, specifically of colleague Karakachanov and colleagues, we will rather vote "abstained" because we are worried about the desire to rebuild the barracks and introduce a compulsory electoral service. This Bill has definitely its good features, and it is certainly good that it puts on the agenda the debate on the opportunities of the Bulgarian Army, on the reforms in the Bulgarian Army, but we cannot accept that with the approach they perceive to restore the barracks, on the compulsory assembly service, they will actually solve the problems. Rather, I think they could only deepen them, and I'm going to look at it a little bit more specifically in a moment. And the third bill of Mr. Enchev cannot be supported. There we will vote against it simply because we are not convinced that it is sincere in what it proposes. If, colleagues, look, you will see that there was another bill tabled by him, right in the opposite direction. Here he spoke of a voluntary character, in the other he spoke of a compulsory character. One has withdrawn it, but how can we assume that it is sincere when, within maybe a week or two, it brings in virtually two conflicting bills, and that it is not really the leading populism here?! But to return to perhaps the most important topic in today's debate, whether a restoration of the compulsory assembly service will help the Bulgarian army and the defense capabilities of our country. We have a strong objection, and I will share several arguments with you, although I have also spoken them to the Commission and they have been read. First of all, as we very well know, colleagues, one of the main problems currently in the Bulgarian Army is the old arming and the need to acquire new defense capabilities. That takes a lot of money. This management is probably doing the best that it can for this.. additional funds are being allocated, for the purchase of both the multi-purpose fighter and the multi-functional patrol ships, and it is also being thought of as ground troops. But all of these funds are afraid that in a rehabilitating of the barracks, they will be sucked out very quickly by the enormous resources needed to be able to sustain these people, accommodated somewhere. You know, the old barracks have long been either sold or destroyed, there are no conditions for these people to be accommodated. All this needs to be restored, it costs money. It's alimony and practically that money will be spent on something vague what. Of course, the leading argument, I think, here and one of my colleagues touched on it, I also told the Commission, especially for young people, the barracks, as it once existed, was really equal to prison. Many of them, especially those graduating higher education institutions, were taken literally by the student bench, people already prepared for active participation in economic life, and were forced into it for a year, or for nine months, or for a year and a half during the various years, in a place where they had virtually no access to the outside world. They were limited in their contacts and claimed to be training them for something, but most of them were learning basically how to lay low, how to move a pile of stones from one side to the other side of the platform, and perhaps learn how to sleep straight during a guard, which does not seem useful to me, especially for modern conditions. They also mentioned that it is necessary for an army to have in modern conditions with high technological capabilities and preparation. Colleagues, this training, including with military personnel, commented with the professional leadership of the Bulgarian Army, very clearly said that in six months such training could not be given. It takes years, years of really serious preparation to be able to handle this technique so that it can be operated on in a way that it will not be damaged. Because, think about it, colleagues, this high-tech technique given into the hands of a young man who doesn't have two months of training, can practically easily damage it, and in a way irreparable, which will cost extra money. Many more arguments can be expressed in this direction. But I still think, what colleagues from the Patriotic Front want to introduce military-patriotic education with their bill, can be achieved without looking for a way to restore a compulsory barracks and forcefully tear people out of their natural environment. This can be achieved much easier through education at military universities. Voluntary education, by the way, because, as you know, colleagues, usually a job by doing it voluntarily and motivatedly, it ends much, much better than by someone who has to do it by force. The people have said: "Forced beauty is not working! " and I think he was very right. We're all convinced of this thing every day. These good ideas of military-patriotic education, including in schools and in secondary education, can be further developed, but not looking for a recovery of some long-forgotten practices, which I think is the barracks as many people have known it especially since recent years. What I'm getting through with is purely legal, because I can't help but mention it. Colleagues, there is also a legal obstacle to the adoption of this Bill in practice. This is the change in the Constitution of 2007 in art. 59 where it was explicitly said then that the military duties, notice the obligations, are carried out in accordance with the order laid down in law. This text has been changed and is currently said that the preparation for the execution of military service is being carried out in order provided for by law. In other words, there is no talk of an obligation which, without being explicitly incorporated by the Constitution of Bulgarian citizens, clearly cannot be done by law alone without being unconstitutional. This is, for me, another direct obstacle to support for this Law, so we will most likely vote there for abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. First line Mr. Karakachanov, second line Mr. Enchev, third line is now vacant. Mr. Slavov, with some of your terms you brought us back, much of the hall, to the barracks, to our memories. Mr. Karakachanov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With one of Mr. Slavov's arguments, I agree, in fact with only one, that the armament of the current Bulgarian army is under all criticism. I absolutely agree with you here. I can't agree with the other arguments. What does it mean that it would cost a lot of money? I'll tell you how expensive. I draw the same protocol from a meeting of the Expert Council in the Ministry of Defence. There in the conclusions it is said: lv. outside the planned budget of the Ministry of Defence for new construction, reconstruction, repair of the existing building fund, accommodation, warehouses, warehouses and polygons.! Even if there are more, the security and fate of Bulgaria cost money. It can't be free. The existence of a country is an expensive thing. The security of the state is an expensive thing. It is proven by the Expert Council of nine experts-consults who participated in this meeting. Secondly, the argument that this was a forced break-up, a restriction of rights, a violation of voluntaryity and so on. Excuse me, Mr. Slavov, but if we tell Bulgarian citizens whether they want to pay taxes or not, I can guarantee you that the percentage of people who will say that they do not want to pay taxes is greater than that of people who will say that we do not want to go to the barracks. What does legal violence mean? The limit to not drinking alcohol and not driving a car is a restriction, but it's done with some sense. Paying taxes makes sense. The limit on how old you can vote makes sense. There is no law that is not a restriction. That's a rule, and that's normal. Apropo, I do not think that countries such as.. for Turkey know my opinion, it is not a democratic state... Austria, Norway, Denmark, Switzerland to believe that they have put in prison for their young people, having a set military service, there is no way to accept it as a reasonable argument. It is better to discuss things with serious arguments, figures and facts. We've done our best. We've got some paperwork. We're making arguments. And general tales about how the army is a prison, a restriction, are not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Second line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u81	Mr. Slavov, I am amazed at your talent for presenting your double standards of objectivity. What do I mean? You have just stated that you will abstain, but you will not vote against a very good bill by Mr. Karakachanov, and at the same time you will vote against a single bill which, unlike Mr. Karakachanov's bill, does not impose any obligations, there is no compulsory service. We are talking about the restoration of the General Department of Construction and Reconstruction and the former GUSB, the General Management of Construction Forces, on a voluntary basis. I showed you a petition with several hundred signatures from Southern Bulgaria to young people, 30% of whom are from the Roma community who wish to study in such a center. I am amazed that you stated that the service in the Bulgarian Army before 10 November 1989 was a barracks, and you will not vote against the compulsory barracks offered by Mr. Karakachanov. I understand your anticommunism and your desire to brand everything that was until 1989, but still show objectivity. What I propose is fully in line with both the Bulgarian Constitution, as opposed, unfortunately, by Mr. Karakachanov's bill and the European human rights standards. By what logic you completely reject what Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin stood for last year by your coalition partner Mr. Boyko Borisov was generally supported as a text, as a bill, and entirely behind him was Mr. Ivaylo Kalfin as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Social Services, and now you say that what I propose for the reconstruction of this centre is something that should not be supported. I'd be very interested to hear your argumentation, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Enchev, I'll start with you. I told you I wasn't convinced that you were sincere with this Bill because you brought another one in the opposite direction. But since you are putting the question to the expert, and it is appropriate to comment, I will tell you that the army is not a place for social or educational activities of broad masses of the population. The army has very clearly written obligations under the Constitution and should primarily deal with them, its resources should be directed to this, not to act as a foundation or something like that, as you imagine it. I must tell you that I know people who live in blocks once built by GUSW. So many repairs have been done over the years, and I'm not sure it was the best way. But then it was good years, housing was hard to buy, and people had no choice during the years of communism that you talked about. As for the argument of colleague Karakachanov, Mr. Karakachanov, in your analysis you say that according to your assessment it will take about 100 million. BGN to realize this event. As I understand it, it's about one set of about 100 million a year. lv. Think of how many sets have practically been missed since 2008 and they have not canceled their optional military service. It should be if this bill is adopted in order to be equal with the other Bulgarian citizens to pull it over. By multiplying that 100 million. lv. How many years a year are there, you'll see that we're going over 1 billion. lv. investments. I don't know if you can imagine where she'll be found? And one more thing. I thought you said 30 million. lv. to rebuild the old barracks. I think it takes a lot more than that. Colleague Karakachanov, in the economy of this are said to be a fixed cost and what you are not saying are the so-called variable costs.It is the cost of feeding these people daily, clothing costs, equipment costs, everything that goes on a daily basis of the people who are there. This is missing in the account, and if you add them, you will see that the account is quite swollen. So the analysis of the Ministry of Defence that a personnel serviceman in the long term turns out that his maintenance costs less to the Bulgarian state is correct because these people receive a salary for what they do, and the rest of the time they live at home, at home, buying food on their salary. So the state shouldn't support them and raise them, which wouldn't be the case with the recruiter. Finally, the assessment of whether the barracks was ever a prison, yes, I think they gave it back then, the young people, who in most part had moved abroad and waited until they were 32 or 35 years old to return and not to be sought for military service.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Next to speak, Mr. Bayraktarov. I'll tell you what the time of the group is. You want an extension. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u85	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think that today the debate should start as follows: The Great is our soldier, great, great, great! Alas, however, from the statements of some of the negotiators from the Reformation bloc, the great Bulgarian soldier, who has not allowed any flag to be captured in battle, as well as outside the battle, turns out to have been a prisoner. According to some who spoke from the Reformation Bloc, the Bulgarian great soldier, in addition to being a prisoner, is an understatement and an imbecile, because in order to be trained in military work, some thinkers say it takes years. Gentlemen of the Reformation Block! As a soldier from the reserve of the Republic of Bulgaria, I have served in Rocket troops as a radio station operator. For the two years, this difficult activity has taken place to be a radio station operator with the study of very specific technical literature, on the third month I gave full combat duty, including with the establishment of the invasion of enemy aircraft fighters in Bulgaria, which were happily neutralized. I've completed my military service with a master class, which is practically equivalent to higher education, if you don't know. I'm only giving this to you as a small example. In fact, what is the big debate, honourable Members? [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u86	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u87	The big debate is, will it cost an expensive recovery of the selection service and is it worth it? No, it won't cost expensive and it's definitely worth it. In fact, how many of you pressed the green button on their consoles when you had to accept the National Security Service budget? A parasitic service in which, unfortunately, highly qualified employees usually act as servants of certain politicians or we have to pay 2 million a year to guard that feathered Falcon, which we never really understand why it should be guarded. The budget of this service is by chance 35 million. But there are no opponents. Why? Because certain figures of the political class must be guarded. Opponents, however, suddenly bloom like butterflies when we need to restore our dignified service. Who is this clever man who decided that the Bulgarian soldier was a prisoner? Sorry, but the Bulgarian Army has not existed since 9 September 1944. It exists long before then and must continue to exist. A bill for the restoration of military assembly service is already under discussion in Germany. Here comes total silence from the so-called Euro-Atlantics. Why in Germany couldn't and in Bulgaria couldn't? Did something happen and become the Bulgarian Army very strong and capable of defending national security, defending the Bulgarian people, as most of you swore when they were in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army. Alas, a huge misunderstanding. Misunderstanding from people who claim and have sworn in this Parliament to protect Bulgaria, to work for it, to work for the Bulgarian people and to represent it according to the Constitution. Do I have to remind you that every entry of a recruit into the barracks was accompanied by huge celebrations in the settlements called then dispatches? Did someone force people to organize these celebrations? Perhaps they were forced to force themselves?! It was really a celebration for the son to enter the ranks of the Bulgarian Army and from a child to come out as a man, to come up with polite habits of discipline, with educated habits of responsibility, something that we today, unfortunately, do not observe in our youth, which is subjected to absolutely decomposing ways in their morals. They have to be gay, participate in gay parades, they have to be victims of the drug mafia, that is, being drugged, junkies, that is more acceptable according to some of the opponents of this Law. In fact, history does not forget. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Yes, it is likely that GERB and the reformers will reject this bill, they will also reject the bill of colleague Enchev, which I will support because I had this conversation with General Peshlevski more than four years ago and this is correct, and a good bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u88	I'm asking you to graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u89	I call on you to support all three bills because they are good and necessary for Bulgaria and the Bulgarian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? There's no way the Patriot Front has run out of time. You're beyond prolonged time. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Stanimirov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have served as a recruiter in the Bulgarian Army and I am proud of it. Moreover, I believe that the restoration of the set component in the armies of the countries of the European Union is a matter of time and a matter of not so distant a future. Today we must turn to today's reality. There is no doubt that there is a need for a serious increase in human potential and the combat readiness of the Bulgarian Army. The professional army is currently unfulfilled. It is far below the plan of the Armed Forces staff from 37 to 40 thousand people. The military profession is unpopular because of low pay. For 24 seats for professional soldiers appear 10 candidates, should be at least the opposite. There are at least four thousand available seats for professional soldiers in today's army. If, with the changes we are about to make, we achieve this, our professional army, as under our current law, to comple itself and the military profession to become more attractive, this will be a very important step. Secondly, we have a Act in force to reserve the Armed Forces. He envisions a voluntary reserve of people who have passed military training and signed a contract with the army to be available. This voluntary reserve does not exist at the moment. The law is not applied and these people are gone. If with the changes we are going to adopt, we achieve an active voluntary reserve, this will also be a very big step. These two steps - the assembly of the professional army and the bringing into effect of the voluntary reserve - do not in themselves require the introduction of a selection service. They only require the application of existing laws. If we do them, it means eight thousand new trained soldiers in the Bulgarian Army. Eight thousand means one third to increase combat and army personnel. That's what we need to do. Another thing, if the proposed assembly service is introduced, this means that you will have to double the staff of junior officers in the ranks of the Bulgarian Army, because in a set of 20,000 new soldiers there should be someone to train them. Currently, the junior officers of the Bulgarian Army are in severe shortages. Where are we going to get junior officers to train these recruits you propose to call when there are no junior officers in the army, and currently there is no system for producing reserve officers for the Bulgarian Army? That is why it seems to me that the proposal to introduce a selection service is a little unthinkable and not timely. The steps we need to take are: to increase the attractiveness of the military service and to equip the existing professional army; to develop the voluntary reserve of 3600 people, as provided for by the Law and beyond, I believe that it has a serious potential to grow into a national guard or territorial defence forces; to provide for a system of production of reserve officers that can act in the case of mobilization and only then, if these steps prove insufficient and there is an additional need, can be talked about attracting a selection service. I would support the introduction of something like the former elementary military training at the end of secondary schools and universities, which would only give the most basic military training to young people to an extent that they would take an oath and be able to be assigned to the reserve because at the moment this is not being done. This does not mean the expensive exercise of introducing a set of military service on a common principle for six months. I therefore believe that the two drafts proposed by the Council of Ministers are the ones for defence and the Armed Forces, and the one for the reserve, giving the necessary steps, precisely for the development of the army and fulfilling those tasks which I have just drawn up, and I intend to support them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u92	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u93	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! I'm making another line about double standards. Dear Mr. Stanimirov, last year the parliament voted, this will again vote, about 100 million. lv. for eavesdropping, provided that in the courtroom the evidence from these CRCs, which enters the courtroom and effectively in the proceedings, is not more than 10 " 15%," even less. At the same time, you are quite thrifty and against the bill of Mr. Karakachanov, who has a binding element, and against the Bill of Reconstruction of the General Management Construction and Recovery, which is on a voluntary basis. I showed you the gene. Peshlevski is upstairs, too bad he has no opportunity to speak on this tribune a list of seven thousand citizens of the municipality of Rodopi and other areas with high unemployment, who wish to enter such a Center, whose launch will take 150 thousand. BGN, after which it will switch to self-reservation. It'll take more than that, but what difference does it make? A hundred million. lv. You give for a wiretap and 150,000. lv. for the launch of a single centre, which is now operating as General Government Construction and Restoration to the State, with the upcoming privatisation of this privatization you are not talking. No wonder you have such an opinion, as you, in particular, Mr. Kostov's right-wing government, was the government, which in 2000 shut down the Construction Forces without proposing an alternative which Mr. Peslevski now proposes in the face of this Construction and Reconstruction Management, with the receipt of the respective military specialty. I am amazed by these double standards of right-wing majority! Looks like I'm gonna keep doing this for the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u94	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanimirov, I will use a very short line. From the very beginning of your speech, I cannot agree with one thing that the countries, especially from Western Europe, from Europe as a whole and the developed countries, will go to the restoration of selective or similar kind of military service for one simple reason that the military work and the development of the military work is becoming all proficient every year. At the moment, speaking of projects, such as a single man, an army, such as high-tech penetration, even to the simplest soldier, of communication technology, of technologies that help them in their battlefields, by talking about flight vehicles not only, but now there are the first projects of unmanned land vehicles and infantry fighting machines, yet it will become all pó professional and pó professional, which will require ever greater training. In this regard, we must focus on the preparation, professionalisation and financial provision of the professional army. From another point of view, you're right and there's an initial military training in the X and the XI class at the moment. Here the question is: what exactly is taught? This should be one of the topics that together the Education Committee and the Defence Committee should discuss: what are the curricula, whether these things are accessible to young people and whether they can awaken their interest. Already at the university, after 18 years of age, there is an opportunity for voluntary military training that needs to be developed in order not only to fill the Reserve, but also to enable from this point of view the military-patriotic training tasks to be carried out. It is also the work of the Ministry of Defence to ensure the means necessary to make this a priority as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u96	Thank you. Third line? I won't. It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u97	Thank you. Colleague Gazhev, the good thing about predictions and predictions is that we live to see who's right. I said that in my opinion, there will be a restoration of the set component in the armies of the European Union, mainly in its part, of the forces for territorial defence and not in the high-tech parts. Mr. Enchev, I am not opposed to Mr. Karakachanov's bill. It is not appropriate to offer it now, because, I repeat, we have over four thousand unfilled seats in the current army and a completely unrealized reserve, an army reserve of 3,600 people. We have eight thousand empty seats at the moment in the army, and we want, before we fill them, to call 20,000 young people for compulsory training as recruits. We put the wagon in front of the horse. Let us first implement the maximum of the current Law, of the two laws, the Defence and Armed Forces Act and the Reserve. When they work well, if we feel that there is a need for more preparation, more opportunities for staff and the need for the state, then we should think about other measures. I'm sure this isn't the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u98	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Next to speak, Mr. Naydenov signed up. He will be the first to speak at 12.05, when the holiday announced by me will expire. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u99	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. The word for speech is the national representative of the Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria and Mr. Naydenov. Mr. Naydenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u100	Wouldn't it be better if we asked for a name check?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u101	When you speak, if we get to the vote, there will be a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u102	This in order to seek a mobilisation effect for the plenary. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u103	Excuse me, before you go any further. Please, the Quaestors, go to the rooms to invite the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u104	Go to BSP's room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u105	Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u106	BSP expressed its political position and there is an explanation, Mr. Lazarov. On the other hand, to understand that it is a big church holiday today! Ladies and gentlemen, the best of this debate, which is currently taking place under the bills proposed, is that once again, it is the focus of both media and society, as far as it follows this discussion, on matters relating to the army, to defence, to military security, and also a good sign of this discussion, is that, regardless of the direction of the arguments for or against the individual laws, they sound sufficiently professional, something that should distinguish any discussion in the National Assembly. Frankly, I will focus mainly on the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers and that by colleagues Karakachanov and a group of MPs. I am in a hurry to say immediately that, in the balance between the arguments for and against, the proposals made by the Ministry of Defence, respectively, the Council of Ministers, as a result of me, takes the view that I cannot and would not support this bill. He, of course, has many merits, solves many issues that should find his solution in bills of amendment and supplement, and despite the fact that this bill is quite late, offers these solutions to everyone who is interested in the implementation of the Defence and Armed Forces Act. For example, I would have defined as a positive argument, i.e. for support, the further settlement of the issues of defence-mobilization preparation. Something that was missing or was rather a void in the current or previous legal documents, a law or a corresponding decree and regulations. This must, in any event, be taken into account as the dignity of the bill, including matters relating to the reporting of the technique, of persons scheduled for the service of the reserve and reserve, in general. Next, I would note as positive changes the decision found using military aircraft. One question which, at the beginning of 2013. 2014 there was no way not to attract attention and therefore to be on the brink of the scandal for the simple reason that there were enough cases of use of military aircraft in violation of existing texts and the problem was not so much that military aircraft were used as in the fact that there was no legal regulation who could and in which cases could use these aircraft. And no less important problem is that no refunds were made from the budget of the Ministry of Defence, respectively, funds that were extremely necessary for the preparation and flight of pilots in the air force as a result of the use of these helicopters or transport planes for the transport of people, mainly related to power and management. I would add that, in the current text, which regulates the possibility that, when flights cannot be carried out by I am sure that colleagues, including the Defence Committee, will agree that outside these cases, which are sufficiently widely defined and allow the use of military aircraft, would be reprehensible, to put it mildly, the use of military aircraft. It is important to fly for a visit to the municipality, for opening of sites, but excuse me, this cannot be the commitment of the Bulgarian Air Force to use them as a taxi company. Yes, used by persons who are in the government who need regulation of those persons who are entitled, appropriate order, appointed by the Minister of Defence, but only in cases related to the security and defence of the country. Another positive point in this Bill, which is worth commenting on, are the texts that affect improving the activities of the military education system and arguing the status of students. All issues that are laid down in the Amendment and Supplement Bill, including the right to leave, work, training that is laid down in this Bill. Last but not least, a good sign is the finding of a solution in case of the withdrawal of access to classified information, that is to say the temporary removal of officials, respectively, of their right to be recovered when there is, say, an acquittal, or their dismissal, when only in this case they do not accept another proposed job within the Armed Forces, which does not provide for use or access to classified information. You yourselves understand that with the texts on which we have found consensus on the laws on access to classified information, we find solutions, even though they come from one particular case, but cases that are sufficient to cause necessary changes to the current legislation. Regarding several comments I have on texts on which I have relevant objections and reservations. I will begin with the changes affecting the activities of the Inspectorate, in particular the powers and activities of the Inspectorate with regard to the checks of combat training, military order and discipline and, respectively, operational capabilities, pay attention to the Armed Forces. This is a text that appears in time and disappears on a proposal for amendment and supplement. The last amendment to which the Inspectorate operates is from 2014. I really do not understand and have not heard arguments why the current Minister of Defence, and therefore supported by the majority, is deprived and deprived of the possibility of inspection by the Inspectorate in respect of combat training or in terms of operational capabilities, in so far as the Inspectorate is the main authority by which the Minister accordingly carries out his control activities? Why should you deprive yourself of the possibility, and note, not through civil servants, civil servants, but through personnel professional officers to carry out inspections in the Armed Forces, not just in the Bulgarian Army? I do not find such logic, I have not heard arguments, except for an unspoken resistance that has always existed, let us say, in the military part, in the military expertise against such proposals, which, of course, is also the main reason, despite the views of the Defence Council, of which there are no particular objections, to make proposals periodically for dropping this power of the Inspector. As a result of this change, they will, of course, have to be, if not made redundant, reassigned personnel officers who are in the service of the Inspectorate, just in view of these responsibilities and rights of the Inspectorate to the Minister of Defence. That's probably relevant. And the second point at which I would like to disagree is the changes in the authority of the Chief of Defense. Most likely, insofar as these powers are part of his responsibilities and provides for the extension of his powers no longer only as Chief of Defence in terms of obligations for the Bulgarian Army, but also with regard to the Armed Forces, is one of the reasons, albeit unrecognized, unspoken, for dropping the powers of the Inspector to the Minister of Defence. Let's put aside this evolution that I notice in some of my colleagues from the Defence Committee. Here to open a clamp and remind that cutting the authority of the Chief of Defence, if this expression can be used at all, came with the changes in 2010 in the current majority, probably not in this composition, but also with a former Minister of Defence, who is now the Prime Minister's military adviser. Now all of a sudden we're at 180 degrees and we say: we need to extend the powers. I am not opposed to these powers of the Chief of Defence, but I believe that in this period of time the Chief of Defense, from 2010 until 2016, has been found a good mechanism for work, if you will, both the Chief of Defense and the Director of Defense, the Chief of Defense's Office within the integrated Ministry of Defence, and now any change will only bring further, new turmoil and disturbance to the work of both parts, so to speak, the two experts, both civil and military, to the Ministry of Defence. There is some logic to sign off on his powers in terms of the Armed Forces, not only in terms of defence, but I believe that in this volume of proposals that have been made, they are currently unsuccessful. A third point on which I have an objection is the question of reducing the age of professional soldiers from 32 to 28 years. Sorry, guys, on the one hand, we have a problem recruiting soldiers. Some 5,000 or more than 5000, more than 20% of the Armed Forces' failure was mentioned, a problem in the competitions to fill the vacant states in the Bulgarian Army, there are not enough candidates, that is, more places than candidates, and suddenly we lower our age with the argument that we want to rejuvenate the Bulgarian army, physical endurance. Then let us strengthen the criteria, or let us recommend to the Ministry of Defence, respectively to the Military Command, to strengthen, to apply stricter criteria in terms of the physical training and endurance of candidates for professional soldiers. You will agree with me that there are young people 22 years old who are far older, excuse the expression, bags compared to 32 years old. What, then, is the logic of lowering at this age, and at a time when we have a problem recruiting candidates? It doesn't make sense, and I didn't hear that logic! The fourth point, the change in the title of "Commodore" with "Flotile Admiral." I understand that this is the desire of the Navy. They like this new name to some extent, but after the introduction of the title of Commodore, let's say the unacquainted one-star admiral, respectively equal as the title of a one-star general, now suddenly we change and we say................................................................................ What does a flotile admiral say to those who would hear it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u107	He's in command of a fleet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u108	He's in command of a fleet. And who's higher in rank? Who? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The counter admiral, the vice admiral, the admiral who? Navy, fleet. I'm sorry, I don't just find logic because some people like it or just because we transform the name not from the base but from the flotilia. It doesn't make any sense! Despite my emotional attachment to the Navy rank and, accordingly, the Navy, there are at least no arguments. We all remember before that the highest rank was a fleet admiral. But now pay attention to the fleet admiral. And if you ask anyone what it means, they'll hardly tell you. He'll say it's the highest, the senior, the highest in rank and position probably. Fifthly, I deal with mixed feelings about texts concerning the possibility of participation of personnel officers in the composition of official governments. I would like to draw attention, because perhaps some of the people who are following both the debate and the proposals for changes are missing this fact. For the first time, we set a precedent, open the door for the participation of personnel officers in the staff of official governments. It is clear that there are concrete examples for this change, in the face of Major General Prof. Dr. Petrov, and let me remind you, Senior Lieutenant Eugenia Radanova. Unlike General Petrov, Evgenia Radanova, as a minister of service of sports, was released from military service because both cases, to be precise, were contrary to texts of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces, which do not allow the execution of state service during the military service. I am not opposed and I have no claim to the way both of them have fulfilled their duties as ministers in the caretaker government, but please note that this is a step towards possible politicisation. As far as the cabinet is of its own nature, it has its political affiliation or at least partiality. So pay attention. It's no coincidence that I'm treating myself with mixed feelings. And last but not least, the absence of a text to even the odds of wage formation between the employees in the army and the Ministry of Interior is an extremely bad sign. I hope that colleagues between the two readings will make efforts to provide support, including the finance minister, for such texts. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u109	It is prolonged for you. You have four minutes and twenty seconds left.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u110	I'm finishing with the commentary on this bill. With regard to the proposal made by Mr. Karakachanov and a group of MPs, I will not support him. I would not support it not only because I was chairman of the Defence Committee when the proposals were made and the compulsory military service was dropped. I would like to say, however, without any irony and without commenting that this is a proposal made from a populist point of view, to say that I consider this proposal to be of concern. From this point of view, I am inclined to think in the direction of finding a solution to the problems that are being signalled by colleagues. It's an extremely important matter. Colleagues, without prejudice to the issue of economic appropriateness, I also share the understanding that when it comes to security, these arguments must remain in the background. Not that they don't matter, but they have to stay in the background at the last place in the reasoning about or against the compulsory or professional army, even from the point of view that the military service is expressing the relationship between society and an army. It speaks of belonging to the state and strengthens, strengthens the sense of belonging to the state. But I don't think the solution we're being offered is the necessary solution. I'll make my case. Docent Mihov mentioned that the debate was absent, that he did not engage so much attention. This debate was held in 2006 "2007." There did not sound much new arguments compared to the discussion when the decision on compulsory military service was adopted. If colleagues are now thinking in terms of changes in the security environment, increasing risks and threats, should tell us in what way should the restoration of the military service neutralize or minimize these risks? How does it respond to these challenges? Excuse me, but with five or ten thousand people to fill the army with, there's no way to solve the risks and threats. If you would like to start even from this point, that in six months' time, as many military service as is envisaged, besides individual military training, apart from the elementary handling of personal weapons, you cannot achieve anything from the point of view of defence capabilities and the potential and capacity of the Bulgarian Army. Nothing else! You won't even have time to assemble the military forces, to achieve compatibility in the individual units of the Bulgarian Army. Then the question is, what problem are you solving? Obviously not issues related to defence, security, respectively the Bulgarian Army. What I think solves this Bill and we should think about, because it is a problem, these are solutions in the direction of compensation of deficits, which today exist in relation to young people in the Bulgarian society......................... Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I agree that these are problems for the Bulgarian society, but these are deficits, whose finding, compensation and solution should not be sought through the Bulgarian army. There's no way the commanders can replace the parents. There is no way for the Bulgarian Army to replace vocational training, respectively the educational system in the country. In view of these arguments, I would personally call on not to support the proposal made by my fellow Members. Another question is that we need to find the form in which to achieve voluntary training of Bulgarian young people, including various forms of their preparation in terms of risks, crisis situations and weapon management.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. You had one more minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u113	It is a pity that your colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria were not here to hear how you filled all the time of twenty-three minutes. The line, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Provoked by what Mr. Naydenov said, I take the floor for a reply on some of his questions. First, for the authority of the Chief of Defense. He said he did not agree so much with his powers being developed not only in relation to the Bulgarian Army, but also with regard to the Armed Forces. The argument of the Ministry of Defence and the military was that the Chief of Defence under martial law became the commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces and they were all subordinate to him. He can't not have a look in peacetime how he prepares those who in art. 50 joined the Armed Forces during the war. This was the argument and I think it is right that he should at least have an idea of what is going on there, how they are preparing, by what methodologies and how they will join the Armed Forces of the Bulgarian Army. With regard to the fleet admiral, I can't help but think. Why is it naval? First, a commander has no traditions in the Bulgarian Army. A commander in most NATO and United States countries is a temporary post as a group commander. That's not an admiral's rank. There's only a commandant in England. Why couldn't you accept this rank in the Navy? Because in the traditions of the Bulgarian Navy, the admiral with one, two, three and four stars, an admiral of the Navy, has always been an admiral. They're in the Navy addressing everyone with a...................................................................................................... Mr. Commander, he was often mistaken for a commando, a conductor, and I don't know what you are. There is no tradition in our fleet in this regard. Why is he a Navy admiral? There's a fleet in Germany. It's a group of ships. Currently in Bulgaria's Navy since 1 July this year there are fleets of warships. It's normal for their commander to be a fleet admiral. There's no way he's gonna be. One word for the inspectorate. It's only natural that he doesn't check the combat training, but the operational capabilities. Battle stations, secret operational plans are the duty of the Chief of Defense and his team. That is why it is proposed in this Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Second line, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Naydenov, in principle, with the vast majority of your speech, I agree with just one slight clarification. In principle, for decades the remuneration in the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Interior went as docked vessels, including the coefficient you mentioned. For the first time this changed with the State Budget Act 2013, when those of the Ministry of Interior were lifted, but not those of the army. Then the parliamentary group of GERB proposed changes between the two readings so that they could be aligned, but unfortunately, then did not meet support from both the BSP Parliamentary Group and the Council of Ministers then. The sincere hope of our parliamentary group is whether it is between the readings of this Bill or in the formation of the State Budget Act for next year, this injustice will be resolved and we will work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Third line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I appeal to the honourable Mr. Naydenov with one request in his jacket, which he is about to miss, as he missed in these twenty minutes the attitude towards the Bill of General Peshleevski and my mercy for setting up a Centre for Civil and Military Training, where young people will be trained on a voluntary basis, and until now, such a request has given between 5 and 7 thousand people. I just showed you the list of General Peshlevski from the municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv region. I am making this remark for a reason, because during the meeting of the Parliamentary Defence Commission, chaired by Gen. Mihov, during the vote on this bill, your two representatives abstained. I want to know if you support, oppose or abstain. Although your parliamentary group is not in the Chamber, I think it is your duty as a parliamentary speaker to express your attitude towards this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Come on in, Mr. Naydenov. Are there any other people who would like to speak after the back? Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Manushev, I am not arguing with regard to the powers that the Chief of Defense has in war time and I would not object, and I do not object to the clear signature of these responsibilities. I note to you that these responsibilities did not arise from today or from the time of deposit of the Amending and Supplemental Bill, they are the permanent responsibilities of the Chief of Defence. My reaction is against this insecurities that you are demonstrating. You cut those powers in 2010. You didn't hear our arguments about the need for military headquarters at strategic level, and now you suddenly remembered that there are such powers that need to be scheduled. That's what my reaction is for. Secondly, as regards the title of the Commodore. We can have this theoretical discussion about how many countries there are, are there five in the Navy, did they give more in the Air Force, when the title arose... It is clear that since 2009, when this title has been introduced, there has been some practice already established, there has been some convergence with this title. If we talk about traditions, they always have one starting point from which this tradition arises. Why do we have to change something without enough argument? That it sounded insufficiently clear that it was incomprehensible.. well, if you ask someone will tell you, for example, that an Ensign also sounds insufficiently clear to him or to say the other titles that have them in the Bulgarian Army, but this is not an argument for the change after a little more than seven years of action of this title. Regarding Mr. Enchev's line. Mr. Enchev, I am inclined to accept this voluntary principle of preparation and corresponding training in a centre to be created at the Ministry of Defence. It was somehow created, including in the Reserve Act through the National Centre for Training of Reserves. This Center is now becoming a fact. However, if the hidden form of employment is seen behind this centre, I will not support such a proposal and I would not support any proposal behind which lies the restoration of the Construction Forces, the railway, the postal troops that existed until the time of their seizure not because they have no contribution to the development of modern and modern Bulgaria, on the contrary, because it is absolutely unconventional and unconventional for the Armed Forces, respectively for the Ministry of Defence. Any other forms in which their training and professional training can be sought, I am inclined to support or discuss accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u121	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. The word for speech is the MP from the Parliamentary Group of GERB Mr. Valentin Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable representatives of the Ministry of Defence in the Chamber! Firstly, whenever we have talked about defence, about security, I have told you that this is good for us, it is good to talk about the Bulgarian Army. Today, apart from, of course, political speeches from all the parliamentary groups, I have personally heard many professional opinions, opinions on what is being proposed in all three bills by almost all parliamentary groups. Thanks also to the leadership, Mr. Chairman, for having succeeded and found time to include not only this Law, but also these three bills, the ZIDs of the Defense Act and the Armed Forces, but also the reserve that we will be discussing tomorrow, perhaps due to the declining time at the moment. What we have been listening to today, and what the Council of Ministers has proposed to us, is actually the result of the review of the Armed Forces, which is being carried out on a routine basis, and I say this about those colleagues who have not started, in the Ministry of Defence and what we have done are the so-called............................the............................... As a result, these changes to the Defence and Armed Forces Act have been crystallized. They are a routine activity, I would say, something that happens over the years almost during the year two, of course, to a different extent reaching out and changing in importance or insignificant changes in the Law. In this case, I think that today the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence, including with our help in the Defence Committee, we are doing just that.. some circumstances have changed, some structures have changed... externally, not only of the Ministry of Defence, and the Council of Ministers is proposing to us, and we will probably approve, somewhere there are changes at second reading, these changes in the Defence Act and the armed forces. There are some bolder proposals, they are in other colleagues' drafts and IDs for the recruitment service. I wanted to stress this because it is very important for the servicemen to hear that with these changes we do not make any special revolutions and reforms in the Bulgarian army. Many times we have said that it is high time that this one of the most reformed systems in a state and the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, should receive exactly what the Council of Ministers needs gradually, every political leadership, every new government in the Ministry of Defence to add a brick to what is built from the previous ones and I find in this direction the proposal of the Council of Ministers. And I, like colleagues before me, will pay attention to just a few things, as we are at first reading and time progresses. There are a few accents that have made an impression on me that seem important. First of all, I would like to stress that the first government of GERB after 28 years I remembered then this number, reached for the first time to change the wartime plan I thank Mr. Angel Naydenov, who mentioned this. This is very important, this is a very important work for our country, especially in these changes to the global environment, which remains somewhat aside, but it is mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. Here the political leadership of the Ministry and the Council of Ministers with the introduction of this ZID continues to raise this issue again and find a solution to problems that I do not want to concern you with now are very important and are difficult to solve in the market economy. I'm just gonna end up with that accent. Secondly, age change. Something very important, what they did during the Oresharski government, raised the age of 50, then we, Mr. Naydenov, to you, addressed, said that this was populism. I do not agree with you that at 32 and 24, for example, as we reduce age, those of 24 years of age, there are those who are not that many, to use another word....................................................................................... We're talking average. In addition, I trust those who have proposed this are professionals in the Bulgarian Army, they have made a comparison, including statistical ones, with the years in other armies. I will not ask you now to think about how you were 32 years old and how you felt at 50, for example, but certainly a large part, and at least we from GERB, will make this change. We believe that it is in the right direction, and it takes away this populistic note that was included then. For the withdrawal of admissions, something very important, which I absolutely want to emphasise. It was an injustice to the servicemen who immediately threw them out of the system. It was said by my colleagues only because we support it, and we believe that this is particularly fair. There's been some kind of violation. He's been suspended, but you haven't been fired, you haven't left the system. You stand until they say you're acquitted and there's nothing behind this accusation. This is very important, and it concerns much of the servicemen. In addition, it corrects an injustice, which is particularly important for servicemen. A special place I'd like to turn over to Special Forces. We're changing the brigade and giving it to the Chief of Defense in submission from the Land Forces. It's a very important thing. I'm only saying this for the specialists to confirm this good decision. It's not just our place. You know what is going on in Europe. It has such powers, except NATO. So we're in sync with everything that's going on. To remind only those who attended there were specialists of the highest level in NATO who came and heard them in the Commission. They told us: "Yes, you are on the right track, do this, so you must. Even we have bolder ideas, but so far, the Ministry has only stopped at obeying the Chief of Defense. For the other two bills only one sentence because we owe this to the efforts of colleagues around Mr. Karakachanov. Many times we said from GERB that what they offer is a good idea. I hear from the BSP that they support him, too. Yeah, that's usually in a good direction, that's concern. I'm not gonna make the argument, we'll probably say it in other places if we have to. If necessary, when there are concrete proposals at the second reading. But we can't talk about the army now. This is our conclusion. The professional army is the good solution for Bulgaria. And just one argument. Here were quoted the names of countries - Germany, Switzerland and others. I don't want to think about what their gross domestic product is. This is one of the main criteria. I do not agree with Mr. Naydenov that the last place is the money given for security and the army. If we get rich like them... I hope that Mr. Karakachanov and the President will become, and the other colleagues who suggested that we work to Bulgaria to have another economic situation. Let's not be last, but forward somewhere. Let's not go first. Then we'll talk not exactly about primordial, but something like that, maybe mixed. Now it's just not gonna happen. Finally, as in the Commission, I think 3 votes have been abstentioned, so read the President of the Commission, I hope that all of the parliamentary groups will support the Council of Ministers' proposal. Of course, those who are biased and import other bills... But we in the parliamentary group call on all of you to support with a greater majority the Bulgarian army to see our concern. Our representatives should convey the self-esteem and mood in this House that we support this bill. Finally, however, I thought of an important accent and I am addressing the representatives of the Bulgarian Army at the moment. The Deputy Minister is here. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165a we say: the termination of the military service contract without notice the minister already has the right to do so if the soldier has acquired retirement rights. Personally, I and my colleagues, Mrs. Yosifova, look to you, will follow you if you will do the same thing you did with the Civil Service Act. At least you know what I'm talking about. We accept it this way, we stand behind the proposal of the Council of Ministers and yours, of course, of the Ministry of Defense, but there will be no revolution there. Do not deprive yourself of the good specialists currently working in the Bulgarian Army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u123	Thank you, Mr. Radev. A line to Mr. Radev's statement? I can't see. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to enter into voting mode. Ladies and gentlemen, the first draft bill to be voted on is the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act and the Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-39, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. I recall the report of the Defence Commission with 12 votes for the defence and armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-39, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt this draft in the first vote. Voting regime, honourable Members. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. The second draft bill, which I propose to your attention for voting, is the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-87, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. I recall the report of the Defence Committee with 2 votes for the defence committee, 1 against the defence and 13 abstentions, the Defence Commission proposes not to support this draft. Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 113 MPs: 27, against 10, abstention 76. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Revoting Mr. Karakachanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u124	Mr President, as some Members were still entering the Chamber, I propose a re-vote. Since many colleagues voted abstention, apparently they have not yet decided what to do, they have a chance to vote for the creation of a truly stable Bulgarian army. I thank Mr. Radev for his wishes for the presidential election, but no matter who becomes president, we must work in this direction, Mr. Radev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u125	Thank you. Revoting regime, honourable Members. They voted 113 MPs: 28 against 15, 70 abstentions. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Dear colleagues, the third is the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-98, submitted by Velizar Penkov Enchev on 28 July 2016. I recall the proposal of the Defence Commission after the questioning and the vote held with 3 votes in favour of the Republic of Bulgaria, 1 against the resolution and 11 abstentions proposed that this draft should not be adopted in the first vote. Voting regime, honourable Members. They voted 101 MPs: 13 against 57 abstention 31. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Re-vote Mr. Gadget, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u126	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry, but there were colleagues who couldn't vote, so I'd like a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u127	Dear colleagues, a bill revoting regime submitted by Mr. Enchev. Vote 98 MPs: 15 against 55, abstention 28. The bill hasn't been passed. Go ahead, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I appeal to you with a request for extension of the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Law amending and supplementing the VAT Act submitted on 7 April 2016 by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, adopted at first reading on 7 September, with three weeks. You know that the topic requires more time for the adoption of a quality bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made to extend the deadline to the maximum foreseen. Vote 92 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 2. The time limit is extended to the maximum possible. Cancel the vote. I have just been informed that a similar proposal has already been voted on Friday, which has been made by the National Representative Diana Yordanova. The deadline is extended to maximum, there is no point in doing all this anymore. We're calling off the vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE REPRESENTATION OF THE ARMED POWERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Importers are the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016 and Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. Mr. Valentin Radev will introduce us with the report of the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, guests from the Ministry of Defence! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. At a regular meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Armed Forces Reserve Act, No 602-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. The meeting was attended by 16 MPs. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev and the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov participated. The motives of the Council of Ministers to the Bill were presented by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. The reasons of the importer indicate that the proposed bill aims to improve the legal basis governing the activities of the reserve and the system of attraction, selection and selection of candidates for service in the voluntary reserve. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law are in line with the Program for the Development of Defence Capabilities of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 and comply with the parameters for the development of the Armed Forces and the guidelines for the construction of their defence capabilities. The main positions in the bill are related to the clarification of the arrangements related to the preparation of Bulgarian citizens for protection of the country. The voluntary training of citizens is presented in a separate chapter. This change distinguishes activities and responsibilities in the preparation of the reserve and of citizens in the protection of the country, taking into account the different regulation of order, organisation and method of reception and training. In his motives, the importer pointed out that a legal framework is being established with which during the training of Bulgarian citizens can also be conducted practical trainings with the use of weapons and ammunition in accordance with the requirements of the statutes and instructions of the armed forces. Students from the senior civil and military schools are given the opportunity to apply for military schools to acquire a qualification from the reserve. It is noted that Bulgarian citizens who are exempt from military service without a competition to take up positions in the voluntary reserve. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61, para. 3 a change in the age limit for stock service shall be introduced. This act aims to ensure the quality of military formations. The importer proposes the establishment of a single training center for initial military training of both reservers and Bulgarian citizens willing to acquire military training on a voluntary basis. The Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov presented the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, which essentially fully supported the arguments put forward in the motives of the Council of Ministers for the changes and additions to the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. The opinion notes that the amendments and additions made specify the functions and responsibilities of the Central Military District for keeping a report, publishing and attracting the reserve and planning the individual preparation of the reserve. The remuneration of the reservers and the way in which they are paid shall also be specified. The change in the duration of the reserve preparation within one year was noted, which increased from 15 to 25 calendar days, and training in courses increased to 30, double to 60 days. People's representatives Krasimir Karakachanov, Milen Mihov and Plamen Manushev took part in the discussion. Following the hearing of the proposed motives of the Council of Ministers and the opinion of the Ministry of Defence and the speeches made, 16 MPs took part. By 16 votes for the defence committee adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u131	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Under the second bill, which was submitted by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, the report will be presented by the National Representative Plamen Manushev. It is also assigned to the Committee on Education and Science, but there is no report from it. You have the floor, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-86, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. At a regular meeting held on 21 July 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Armed Forces Reserve Act, No 654-01-86, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. The meeting was attended by 14 MPs. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev and the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zaprianov participated. The motives of the bill importer were presented by the MP Milen Mihov. They state that the aim of the proposed bill is to improve the regulatory base as it has shown a number of shortcomings in its implementation. The proposed amendments and additions are aimed at regulating the implementation of the mandatory principle in combination with the voluntary principle in preparing citizens for the protection of the country. Reserves are proposed to be included in the formation of the armed forces, both in military times and in peacetime. The proposals regulate the Minister of Defence's right to offer staff from the reserve to re-extend the contract of service in the reserve, but not more than 3 years after the current regulated possible extension with a maximum duration of 5 years. The initial military training of citizens to become compulsory and for secondary school students to be part of the curriculum, suggest importers. Young people who do not continue their education after the basic course of training should be included in compulsory training courses is the other proposal of the importers. There are also suggestions for students who are trained in civil and military schools to undergo training to prepare officers from the reserve. The opinion of the Ministry of Defence on the proposed draft was expressed by Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. With many proposals the Ministry of Defence disagreed and explained its position with legal obstacles to their implementation. It has been noted that some of the texts in the proposed Bill will be examined in depth by experts of the Ministry and, if possible, will be included in the proposed Bill for the Reserve of the Council of Ministers. Following the hearing of the reasons presented by the importers and the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, 14 MPs took part. The Defence Committee adopted the following decision by 5 votes for the defence committee, without..................................................................................................... and 9 He does not support the submitted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bulgarian Armed Forces Reserve Act, No 654-01-86, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. For the procedure please, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to do a procedure for access to the hall and on this point, as on the previous point, as it is on the same subject, of the Deputy Minister of Defence Desislava Yosifova and Vice Admiral Evtimov. Please allow them to be admitted on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u135	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 66 MPs: 65 against 1, no abstentions. Invite the faces to the hall. On behalf of the importers, would anyone like to take a stand? There aren't any. You have the floor to speak. Here you are.. the People's Representative Plamen Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at two bills to amend and supplement the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is part of the group of laws related to the Armed Forces and the security sector. I believe that both the drafts we are discussing are important because the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces has shown some imperfections since 2010 and this Bill in fact corrects these errors, makes the Law more perfect and regulates some of the activities that were not regulated there. The more important things in this bill are: detailing the arrangements related to the preparation of the country's population for defence, the Law of the Council of Ministers emphasizes that it is done on a voluntary basis, so that citizens, of all those who meet the conditions that they desire, can be prepared on a voluntary basis for taking up positions and charging into the Armed Forces reserves. As a very important addition to this Law, and in this connection a Single Training Center is created in Pleven, where, in addition to the reserves of the permanent reserve, Bulgarian citizens will be prepared, meeting the conditions that they are willing to undergo such military training and then be assigned to the reserve. Students in higher schools, also graduates of military schools, are given the opportunity to apply for short reduced courses in higher military schools and to acquire the title of office holders of the reserve. It is envisaged to hold positions in the voluntary reserve of officers who have served in the Bulgarian Army and who have been dismissed, without the announcement of competitions, which is important for filling this voluntary reserve by suspending the possibility that civilian employees in the Ministry of Defence will enter the voluntary reserve, as obligations and positions in military time will continue to fulfil them and will not duplicate their positions either in the voluntary reserve or in the position they hold in peace time. This bill distinguishes the age range from that of the stock; this is very important for the stock. It's supposed to be for soldiers, sergeants, officers, midshipmen, Petty Officers to be 55 years old. For senior officers 60 years, for senior officers 63 years, and for non-military persons not more than 55 years to be kept in the stock. I told you about the study center. It also complements the obligations of all Bulgarian citizens who are reserved to declare and declare their exit from the country upon leaving the country for more than six months. Within three days before leaving the country, they must state in the military district that they are leaving the country to have this information, if necessary not to be sought, but to seek others. These are the main changes to this bill. I don't think there are any serious collisions. According to Mr. Karakachanov's bill, most of the stuff comes in here. The important difference between the two is that they want to combine the voluntary with the mandatory principle. Under Constitution now the service in the Bulgarian Army is voluntary. Therefore, under Mr. Karakachanov's bill, we will abstain, and the first one will support it. This is what the MPs of GERB's parliamentary group will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Manushev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law of the Council of Ministers on the Reserve of Armed Forces and amending the Reserve Act is indeed extremely good and meaningful. I will not repeat the very detailed arguments that Admiral Manushev put forward before me. This is a bill that enables the development of the Bulgarian army and its abilities. However, there is one point in it which I appeal to you to look at between first and second readings and to amend. The contract that the reserve will sign with the Ministry of Defence for service in the voluntary reserve, under the current Law and on the proposal we are considering will also have to be signed by the employer of the reserve, which makes the service practically the voluntary reserve voluntary by the employer and not just the citizen who wants to serve his country. You realize that in this way an important function for national security we place it depending on the narrow will of the employer. Of course, this is a rather delicate subject, because the employer can still suffer damage from the fact that his employee will have a contract and a certain part of his time will be committed to the voluntary reserve. Is it not appropriate in this respect to consider some reasonable compensation that the state will give to the employer? In return, the commitment to be unconditional. I repeat, at the moment we are putting on a national security function of the private will of an employer who may be a foreign or international company. It may turn out that there are certain specialties, which are extremely necessary for the defence and whose employees work in a specific profile companies, which may not be Bulgarian companies. It's a paradox. With the statement that I and my colleagues from the Reformation bloc will support this important bill with enthusiasm, I propose that we consider, between first and second reading, a better regulation of the voluntary nature of the participation of the reservers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We're closing the debate. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. I recall the Defence Committee's proposal: with 16 votes for...... without.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Second, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 654-01-86, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 7 July 2016. I recall the Commission's opinion: with 5 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 9 abstentions, the draft should not be adopted at first reading. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 6, against 2, abstention 70. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. The next item on the agenda is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARMY, THE BOEATRAPAS, THE TRANSPARENT INGREDIENTS AND THE PYROTECHIC ARTICLES. The bill is number 602-01-45. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2016. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please read the report, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please first vote on admission in the hall of Mr. Krasimir Tsipov
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u141	We're voting admission to the House. Vote 71 MPs: for 70, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u142	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 602-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2016. At a regular meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Arms, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2016. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov. As a result of the complicated situation in Europe following the terrorist attacks in Paris of 13 November 2015, for which there is evidence of improperly used and incompletely deactivated firearms and reactive subsequently, and in view of the need to carry out an active policy to deactivate firearms as part of the common security policy of the European Union, it was necessary to speed up the adoption of a European Commission Regulation establishing common standards and techniques to deactivate firearms and its annexes. As a consequence of the above, the European Commission adopted Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2403 of 15 December 2015 laying down general guidelines on standards and methods of deactivating in order to ensure that deactivated firearms are brought into a state of irreversible non-functionality (OB, L 333 of 19 December 2015) (Implementing Regulation) In accordance with art. 9 of the Regulation Member States of the European Union should apply it from 8 April 2016. The Regulation lays down guidelines for a common and harmonised approach to disabling firearms from Member States of the European Union, namely: to ensure that, after deactivating firearms, they become permanently non-functional; to limit the risk that firearms already deactivated or their parts are illegally assembled into functioning firearms; to achieve a common understanding and coherent approach to disabling firearms in Member States so that legally deactivated weapons can be carried within the European Union without unnecessary administrative difficulties, both for the holder and for the relevant control authorities of the Member States. The standards and methods for the irreversible disabling of firearms provided for in the Regulation are laid down on the basis of the expertise of the Permanent International Light Gun Test Commission (C.I.P.). The Commission has been established to verify the activities of national firearms testing entities, in particular to ensure the availability in each country of legal and regulatory arrangements to ensure the efficient and uniform testing of firearms and ammunition. In our national legislation, the disabling of firearms is regulated in the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles and in the Ordinance of 15 April 2011 issued by the Minister of Interior on the restraining order from undesirable access and the handling of firearms for cultural purposes and collection. In order to ensure the implementation of the Regulation, this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles is proposed. The draft law introduces the requirement to issue a Certificate of Disablement for Firearms, made permanently unfit for use by disabling, in which all the essential parts of the firearms are in a state of permanent non-functionality and it is not possible to remove, replace or modify them in a way that would allow the firearms to be re-entered. The deactivation certificate is intended to be issued by the Directorate-General of National Police and the Ministry of Interior at the location of the site of production and repair. The certificate shall be issued by the relevant competent authority on the basis of a report issued by persons holding a production or repair authorisation. It is proposed that the deactivated certificate be issued within two weeks of the date of application. The deactivation certificate is modelled according to the Regulation printed in Bulgarian and English on a protected form on a graphic project approved by the Minister of Interior. It is envisaged that the deactivation certificate will accompany the firearms concerned, including the transfer of ownership. The transport of deactivated firearms in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is regulated only with a common unique marking and disabling certificate in accordance with the Regulation. The requirement of the Regulation on the application of a common unique marking is intended to be met by amendments and additions to the 2011 Ordinance. The technical specifications set out in Annex 1 to the Regulation are also provided for, to the extent necessary, to be laid down in the Ordinance of 15 April 2011 on the restraining order from undesirable access and handling by purpose of firearms for cultural purposes and collecting. That regulation shall detail and detail the specific technical procedures which correspond to those set out in the Regulation. The Committee on Homeland Security and Public Order with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. An importer's opinion? I won't. Debates are open. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're closing the debate. I would like to ask the Quaestors, with the exception of Emil Dimitrov from the Patriotic Front Groups of BSP Left Bulgaria. After all, we're working together. [[GERB's line: "Punish them. "]] Vote for a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles, No 602-01-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 July 2016. Honourable Members, vote. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The bill has been adopted unanimously. Next item on the agenda: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE MEMORANDUM FOR THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE INSTITUTE FON CARMAN FOR THE DINAMICS OF THE FLUIDS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. It has been allocated to the following committees: the Committee on Education and Science; the Committee on Budget and Finance does not have a report; the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence; two reports. Welcome from the Education Committee, Mrs. Milena Damyanova, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u144	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602 02 32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. At its regular meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Education and Science Committee discussed the above bill at the first vote. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Ivan Dimov, who presented the bill on behalf of the importers. Von Karman Institute for fluid dynamics is an international scientific institution for specialised training and research in the field of aerodynamics of young engineers and scientists from NATO member states. In the Republic of Bulgaria there is a serious scientific school in the field of fluid mechanics. The ratification of the Memorandum gives access to international funding of the Institute's academic programmes. Within each academic year, admission under privileged conditions is provided for distinguished students and young scientists to take advantage of the opportunities for NATO training. They will be able to develop specific expertise and professional growth on the basis of financial support, thereby strengthening their cooperation with students and scientists from other NATO Member States. The Bulgarian presence, our potential contribution to the scientific exchange between NATO member states, as well as our capacity to participate with projects funded under NATO's Science Programme for Peace and Security is expanding. The discussion on the Bill included the MPs Snezana Dukova and Stefan Zhelev, who asked to be informed about the mechanism of selection of Bulgarian residents at the Institute and whether their number is related to the size of the country's contribution. The importers explained that the contribution is dependent solely on the size of the gross domestic product of the participating countries, that the great benefit for the Republic of Bulgaria consists in the possibility of participating in the scientific programmes of the Institute of Von Karman and that the sending of residents is agreed with the host country on the basis of scientific results shown by them. After the discussion was concluded and the results vote was held for the 11 votes, without the opposition and the abstentions, the Committee on Education and Science unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at the first vote the Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602 02 32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u145	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u146	Mr. Chairman, since this is the Deputy Minister of Education, if you'll allow me to make an admission procedure in the hall of Deputy Minister. Mr. Ivan Dimov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u147	Honourable Members, we are voting for admission in this House. Cancel the vote. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - here Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - absent Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - here Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - absent Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - absent Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - absent Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent In addition they signed up: Vladimir Toshev, Dimitar Lazarov, Alexander Nenkov, Valentin Alexiev Nikolov, Borislav Velikov, Dimitar Boychev, Antony Trenchev, Martin Ivanov and Boris Yachev. 127 according to Yavor Haytov. We have a quorum. We'd stopped until we had access to the hall. Ladies and gentlemen, please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Mrs. Damyanova, the report is read. We finished your report, but there's two more. Foreign Policy Committee? Ms. Gemma Grozdanova is missing. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. At a regular meeting held on 7 September 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, signed in Sofia and Brussels on 20 April 2016. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Education and Science Prof. Ivan Dimov. The Von Karman Institute for fluid dynamics was established in 1956. It is an international scientific institution for specialised training and research in the field of aerodynamics. Initially it is financed on the basis of a contract between the Kingdom of Belgium and the United States, but today 13 NATO member states contribute to its activity: Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Norway, Turkey, Portugal, the Czech Republic, Greece, Romania, Hungary, Luxembourg and Iceland, whose contributions currently form 25% of the Institute's budget. The contributions shall be calculated on the basis of the contribution of the country concerned to NATO. Another essential part of the financing of the Institute is the result of contracts with industrial environments. For the period 2014 - 2015 the revenue under this item amounts to EUR 8 670 000. The contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the budget of the Institute for the year 2016 will be EUR 9534.75. This contribution will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science and will not aggravate the State budget. With the ratification of this Agreement, Bulgarian students and scientists in the field of fluid dynamics will be able to benefit under privileged conditions to participate in the trainings and cycle lectures in this scientific area, which takes place between 8 and 12 weeks a year. It is important to point out that the Von Karman Institute also has bilateral activities. In addition, ratification of the agreement would enable the funding of projects by Bulgarian scientists on the NATO Science Programme for Peace and Security, as well as a Bulgarian contribution to the scientific exchange between NATO Member States in the field of fluid physics. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the Council of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. And the report from the Defence Committee. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. At a regular meeting held on 1 September 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft Law on ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Education and Science Ivan Dimov, Parliamentary Secretary Desislava Kemalova and the Chief Expert at the Directorate of Science and Science at the Ministry of Education Zornitsa Georgieva. Deputy Minister Ivan Dimov presented the reasons for the bill and justified the benefits for the state of ratification of the bill. The Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics was established in 1956 and currently 13 NATO member states participate in the activities and financing of the Institute with annual contributions, determined with a gross domestic product ratio of each country. The financial contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria to the academic year 2016 to the Institute's budget would be 9534.75 euros, calculated as a coefficient on our country's contributions to NATO's 2015 and 2016 budget. The Institute deals with a wide range of fluid research and their dynamics related to civil and military aviation. At the same time, it is also a Scientific Centre for Training of Young Scientists and Students. The inclusion of Bulgaria in the activities of the Institute will enable the training of prominent Bulgarian students and young scientists in its academic programs, which is useful both for them and for our country as a whole. Due to the fact that Bulgaria is undertaking a financial obligation for the long term, the National Assembly is required on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to ratify by law the Memorandum. Statements on the bill made the MPs Valentin Radev, Miho Mihov and Yanko Yankov. In their speeches they agreed that the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the activities of Von Karman Institute for fluid dynamics is useful for the country in the long term and will enable the training of young scientists and students in the programmes of the Institute. At the same time, our country will be able to use the Institute's research in the interests of Bulgarian military and civil aviation. Following the debates held on the draft in the Defence Committee, a vote was held. By 15 votes for the defence committee unanimously adopted the following decision: He proposed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for fluid dynamics, No 602-02-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-14.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Honourable Members, speeches on the Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute on fluid dynamics, No 602-02-32, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 26 August 2016, as well as a vote, on the first and possibly second, we will hold tomorrow on the agenda of the regular plenary session. I remind you that according to the weekly program, tomorrow we begin with the Project for a decision to announce the Bulgarian Day Hungarian Friendship. Importers are Valeri Simeonov, Gemma Grozdanova, Ivan Penkov Ivanov, Milena Damyanova and Radoslav Stoychev from 1 September 2016. I am adjourning today's plenary session. Thank you for your participation. [[PHONE RINGING]]
