ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to our weekly schedule, it is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COMPANY AND THE IMO REGISTER. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the leading Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Agriculture and Food. With the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, Mr. Nenkov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! I ask before reading the report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government to make a procedure for admission in the hall of Lazarinka Stoichkova, Svetoslav Nakov, who is the executive director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, and Nikolay Nankov, who is Deputy Minister at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u3	Please, a voting regime for admission to the Chamber of the two experts and Deputy Minister Nankov. Vote 137 MPs: 130 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests to their assigned seats. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers Representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, of the Forest Agency, of the Chamber of Geodesy Engineers, of the Association of Registry Judges, of the Notary Chamber and of Branch Geodesicical Organizations took part in the meeting of the Commission. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Lazarnika Stoichkova, advisor to the political cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, and Mr. Svetoslav Nakov, Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. The aim of the draft Law is to speed up the process of creating a cadastral map and cadastral registers in the country's territory by regulating a simplified procedure for their creation for non-urbanised territories. It is envisaged to convert the recovered property map into a cadastral map by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency, which will enable a large percentage of the country's territory with cadastral maps and cadastral registers to be achieved in short time and with minimal financial resources. The proposed bill empowers municipal agriculture services to carry out on behalf of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency part of the activities of administrative services with cadastral information. There is also an opportunity for municipal administrations to assist Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster services in carrying out administrative services. The focus of cadastral information in an administrative body will enable faster and easier implementation of large investment projects. The possibility of issuing electronic sketches and schemes will reduce the Agency's expenditure for issuing them on traditional paper. It will also reduce the costs of consumers of cadastral information, which will be able not only to state, but also to receive sketches and schematics electronically, instead of a desk at the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Office. In addition, the necessary funds will be provided at the expense of a reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food for 2016 and for subsequent years in relation to the structural change made, which does not require additional funds from the state budget. The proposed Bill also removes certain terminological discrepancies, as well as incompleteness and imperfections in the legal framework established in the application of the Law. As a result of the implementation of the amendments to the Law, a cadastral map will be created within the meaning of the Cadastral Law and the property register for almost the entire territory of the country, and services will be provided by the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. With regard to the changes in the part of the "Important Register" the Law does not require the mobilisation of an additional financial resource for its implementation. Its advantage is that it will be applied within the existing and established institutional structure of the State and will rely on the legal rules under which there are accumulated and sufficient caselaw by the implementing authorities. It is subsequently possible to impose the engagement of additional state clerks as a result of the extension of the functions of the Registry Agency and the provision of new services, from which, however, additional revenue for the state budget will be generated. As a result of the adoption and consistent application of the proposed changes, further development of the system of services offered by the Registry Agency may be expected in order to ensure the security and publicity of the entries and the prevention of property fraud. In the medium term, changes will significantly help to move to property registration in all judicial areas. In the course of the discussion by the Members of the National Assembly and in the opinions expressed by the representatives of professional and branch organizations involved in the meeting, attention was paid to the need to refine a number of provisions in the Draft to overcome existing problems and improve the practice of its implementation. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u5	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. The report of the Legal Commission "Mrs. Alexandrova."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016. At its meeting held on 11 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Verginia Micheva, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Lazarinka Stoichkova, Counselor to the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Svetoslav Nakov, Executive Director of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, Ms. Nadejda Tarandzhiyska, Mrs. Galina Kuzarova and Mrs. Emilia Angelova. The bill was presented by Mr. Svetoslav Nakov. The proposed Bill aims to accelerate the process of creating a cadastral map and cadastral registers for the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, including the unurbanized territories, and to convert the map of the restored property into the cadastral map by the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral. The bill provides for amendments to help move to property registration in all judicial areas and ensure the security and publicity of the entries and the prevention of property fraud. Mrs. Valya Gigova expressed the opinion of the Supreme Council of Laws, pointing out that there are two amendments in the bill that are unclear. She pointed out that the provision of art. 59, para. 4 provide that the lot is a document of publicity and that it would be more correct to have a noticeable effect since the account is the result of the entries made. Mrs. Gigova also pointed out that the provision of art. 65 creates ambiguity by not giving a definition of a...................... party case....................... and that this provision limits the scope of the acts only to those under the Property Act. During the discussion Mr. Mitev expressed a negative opinion on the changes regarding the property register. He raised a question about the availability of the necessary human resources and the possibility of legal certainty being ensured. In response Mrs. Lazarinka Stoichkova pointed out that the transformation of the map of the restored property into the cadastral map will be an administrative process that will take place gradually and for which resources are provided. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that opinions should be requested from the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Ministry of Justice, the Registry Agency, the Bulgarian Association of Judges on the Registrys, the Notary Chamber of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Association of Municipalities. These opinions will be made available to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, which should take them into account when examining them at second reading. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 7 votes for the Cadastral and Property Register Law No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016, proposed to support the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u7	Thank you. We also need to hear the report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I offer to your attention a summary of ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016. The Commission on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 13 April 2016, discussing the quoted bill. The bill was presented by Lazarinka Stoichkova, who stressed that the aim of the bill is to accelerate the process of creating the cadastral map and the cadastral registers, relieve the administrative burden and improve the service of citizens with cadastral information. The main changes in the competence of the Commission are the following: First of all, the procedure for the creation of a cadastral map and cadastral registers for non-urbanised territories is regulated. In this regard, it is envisaged that the map of the restored property, which is a set of maps and plans approved under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and the Law on the restoration of the ownership of forests and land by the forest fund, will be converted as a working order into a digital cadastral map. A procedure shall be established to remedy a manifest error as well as the possibility of compensation to the owners concerned. The amendments relating to the removal of a manifest factual error will be carried out by an order subject to appeal under the APC. The appeal won't stop the execution. The texts regulating the order of removal of incomplete or error to be applied, including for property whose right of ownership has been restored under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land, shall be reviewed. The municipal agriculture services shall be empowered to carry out on behalf of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency part of the administrative services activities with cadastral information on agricultural and forestry areas with approved cadastral map and cadastral registers. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food will provide farmers with free data obtained from the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. Transitional and final provisions shall set a three-month period within which the production of a cadastral map and cadastral registers for non-urbanised territories shall be considered open to all lands. The Municipal Agriculture Office will provide the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Office free of charge with the plans, maps and registers approved under the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land and the Law on the Restoration of Forest Property and Land of the Forest Fund. The removal of the non-compliances found in the combination of data within the boundaries of land properties between urbanised and unurbanised territory will be carried out under the Law. A procedure shall be set for the completion of unfinished proceedings. Within one month, the Minister of Agriculture and Food will have to bring the rules of procedure to the Ministry and to the secondary officers with a budget in accordance with the provisions of the Law. The Forest Act makes changes concerning the sketches needed to establish the right to build and establish a waitout aimed at synchronising the provisions. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 17 votes for the Cadastral and Property Register No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u9	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's meeting of the National Assembly is extremely responsible, because with this Bill its amendment and addition, we will also rule on the status of the property documents of the Bulgarian citizens. This bill, honourable Members of the National Assembly, may affect all Bulgarian citizens we represent, although under different political nuances. The most important solution, which is not satisfied with the adoption of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, is to have a property register in Bulgaria. Currently, what is being done with this Bill as an amendment and supplement is a thorny occupation, announcing the map of the restored property in a cadastral map within a short time frame. In parallel with this, there is great joy that the maps of the restored property within two weeks will be transmitted to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. You see, with these acts these cards will become the Cadastral of Bulgaria. Yeah, well, no. In parallel to this, the second idea recorded in the motives is that there will be an electronic card and there will be an identifier. There are fellow lawyers here who know very well that the Cadastral Maps and Cadastral Registers approved under the Law have a declarative effect. These do not result in changes in property status. We will once again put the issue related to the Property Register, the main thing that protects the property of the Bulgarian citizens, on the background. The hidden activity of the Operational Program to be mastered 12 million for the administrative management of this process is provided to the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre. I cannot imagine how the agriculture services will support these activities, given that they will provide all their documents to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. The services and companies that maintain the land will be closed and the capacity of the entire expertise of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency has no power in this year, according to the deadlines in this Bill, to carry out this overall activity. Experts say that in order to make a good cadastre, a good cadastral map, a minimum of 100 million are needed. lv. One more question goes away and one more question goes away. We all go to our constituencies and we know that in urbanized and built settlements there is no cadastral map. But most of the settlements that I represent, and you probably have only polygons. So now we're staring at the fact that we're creating a cadastral map of the land fund, that there's going to be electronic sketches, that there's going to be a classifier, that parallel to that stand and sound questions... I would like to share the questions of my fellow citizens from the village of Sredets, the municipality of Nedelino. They've been insisting for years that the land plan is unreal, there are inaccuracies. When this plan is announced as a cadastral map, what will happen to these people? They'll go to court to make a claim for ownership, because the identifier they'll be given will be on properties that aren't theirs. According to the Agency, and also in our Commission, it was said that up to 10-12%, I do not know how it is specified are inaccuracies in cadastral maps. What is the resource and how much money do these inaccuracies need to be removed and on whose account?! Or are we gonna bring in the people we represent? Colleagues, the main question for me in this Cadastral Law is primarily the Property Register. We will not create a property register again. The people's properties will have a unique identifier, they will have the opportunity to have an electronic card, but look at the paradox, honourable MPs. In the report of the Legal Commission was shared and in our Committee on Regional Development and Local Self-Management there is no opinion of the Ministry of Justice. Mr. Danail Kirilov has ordered to request opinions. There's no statement from the Court of Cassation. There is no opinion from the Registry Agency. The judges on the entries during our Commission were in shock. The notaries, too. There is no opinion of the National Association of Municipalities, there is no opinion of the Association of Judges on the entries and of the notary chamber. And we were informed that the bill was meaningful, debated, that it was a lot of work. Dear Members of the National Assembly, if we are going to do a Cadaster if we are going to do an experiment with the property of Bulgarian citizens and if we are not going to make a property register and we are not going to guard the property of citizens with seriousness and stability, let these 12 million be given to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency to spend them and make a cadastral foundation of urbanised territories where there is no cadastre. Let it be proposed to the National Assembly, to the Ministry a road map...... region by region, areas by entry, to have the opportunity to see where there are problems, where there are no problems and all that to be removed. Because at the moment we will do and support a thorny activity that at the end of the year someone will report: But is this the Cadastral?! Is this the Cadastral, I mean, the map of the restored property? How will the landing of the land be done with the restored property in the contact area with the urbanized territories? Will it be called a cadastral restored property, which has farmyards and other land estates? Here, the chairman of the Agricultural Commission said: "We in the Law on Land and Forests have decreed how to make a building. I have a great deal of concern about the whole procedure and as deadlines. Will the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency with the territorial units succeed within a two-week period, as under the Bill, to receive all documents from the Land Commissions? Will the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency with all the props on the documents and maps of the land committees be able to sign this into the Cadastral Map, called so in perspective, because they will literally carry all the documents from the land committees? Honourable Members of the National Assembly, you know that in the overall land reform and where we do foster, we know and we are all informed that they hold some real estate, but they do not really exist on the territory and on documents they do not coincide with the restored land ownership. She was rushed, she was quickly made, she was unjustly made for many people. These people are yet to give again a lot of money and financial resources for this. My proposal to the importer was: the Commission to withdraw the bill because it will not do the country any good. In essence, in 2001, when the Bill was adopted, the idea was for Bulgaria to have a property register. Make inquiries in the five districts where the property register is being made, where has this reached and whether we will now assist Bulgaria to have a light property register, or once again enter into a declarative action, we will sweep things and will not have an Imot Register again?! I know how through these agriculture services and how through the Cadastral sometimes opens Pandora's box and sign people who never had anything to do with property. Perhaps that is why Bulgaria has no property register for 15 years, perhaps that is why this bill does not treat the possibilities of the property register and the property of the Bulgarian citizens. We will not support the Bill and will control the government's extremely thorny activities regarding these activities related to the Cadastral map and property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u11	Any lines to Mrs. Yankova? I won't. Mr. Alexander Nenkov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, as already mentioned, in 2001. The Law on Cadaster and the property register together with a long-standing strategy which envisions the whole territory of the country to be covered by cadastral maps and cadastral registers is adopted. Unfortunately, the fact is that 15 years later, given that a lot of money has been spent to cover such cadastral maps, so far the balance is somewhere around 90 million spent funds, with around 22% of the territories actually covered by these cadastral maps. This certainly means that so far the strategy has not given the effect we have wanted. During these 20 years were made and the so-called "restored property cards" under the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, have been made, have been subject to judicial review and have actually been validated. One of the reasons for the draft proposed by the Ministry of Regional Development is precisely the so-called maps of the recovered property...................................................................................................... I see nothing wrong with that, because, indeed, as I mentioned, in making these so-called "restored property cards"... they are subject to judicial review, everyone has had the opportunity to make their claims, the court has made its decision, so there is nothing wrong with them being part of these cadastral maps. At the same time, part of the Strategy adopted by the Council of Ministers in 2001 is within this 15-year period precisely the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre and the establishment of a property register to be within these 15 years. It is true that so far there is no property register, which I appreciate as a really serious omission in these years of development, but ultimately the property register is not the work of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, but of the judges and of the Registry services. I understand the pre-talking and his motives, but ultimately what the Agency wants, and what has been imported by importers, is precisely to create a cadastral map in which each property has its own electronic identifier, and from then on to be a prerequisite for creating a property register. We're really taking too long, and it's no coincidence in art. 59, para. 4 It is said very clearly that these cadastral maps, this number, which will receive every single property, does not represent a piece of evidence. The accounts of these properties are yet to be audited by the Registry Judges, of course, at the request of any citizen who is interested. So here the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster has no direct relation to the problem with the property register. Undoubtedly, at the moment all information about land properties, outside urbanized territories, as well as urbanised areas, is fragmented. On the one hand, as I said, 21%, which already have cadastral maps, are in the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral. We have a huge part that sits in the agriculture and forestry services, and there is a third part that is in the municipalities in each populated municipality. Part of the strategy is precisely to pour all this information into an agency that provides such cadastral services to every citizen, to every company. For this reason, I also believe that the proposed bill will indeed benefit citizens and businesses for several reasons, as well as, of course, part of the strategy envisaged in the creation of an e-government. From now on, every citizen, every person concerned, will be able to receive Cadastral services not only from the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency, but will be able to obtain this information from any agriculture and forestry office and from any municipal administration, which at times makes access to this information easier to these services. Creating the possibility as another positive of issuing electronic cards means that not only will people use these services, for which I said, if they want to physically go to these services and ask for this information, but they will actually be able to request it by electronic signature, they can request it from the service directly without having to go waiting in queues at all, or some companies that currently exist to take more money from them that will come out of their pocket. Undoubtedly, the creation of an e-government is a step forward and I absolutely admire the efforts of the Ministry of Regional Development in this regard. As for what was mentioned by the previous.. errors in the maps of restored property. Yeah, there really are differences. As far as I'm concerned, last year's report was made. More or less the percentage of the wrong cards with obvious factual errors is about areas outside urbanised is about 10%. Part of the money that has been mentioned is 12 million, which will be provided by the Operational Programme "Good management" will actually go precisely to correct these mistakes. Assuming that, so far, for 90 million we have made 21% cadastral maps and we have covered 21% of the territory in reality, in gross accounts, to cover the entire territory of the country and at the pace we have done so far, that means that tens of years ahead we will have neither cadastral maps, besides we will have spent nearly 400 million and more precisely to create these maps. In my opinion, it is very appropriate not to spend additional resources, and the Agency of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster itself, together with the agriculture and forest services, along with the municipalities, will have the opportunity to pour this information. Yes, perhaps the two-week period may not actually take place, but I believe that this can be discussed and considered between the first and second votes................................ In the end, I believe that all three interested parties are interested in this happening an hour sooner and to be a prerequisite for solving the more serious problem of creating a property register. Colleagues, I also call on you on behalf of the GERB Group to support this bill. It is a step forward, it is part of the reform that must take place in the creation of maps and registers throughout the country. As I said, it would make business easier for the citizens. Where there are mistakes, of course, they will be cleared. I don't think that 10% of the errors in this map of the restored property would be a problem and in time they would be able to be cleared. Of course, between the first and second votes, the texts are to be discussed. I know there have been various opinions in the Legal Committee on the transfer of this information from the Registry Agency to the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency, but this does not interfere. We must lay the groundwork, and our task as MPs is maximum, in accordance with the requirements and different opinions of the various stakeholders, to find the best way and not to waste more time, because in the 20th century, fifteen years later, we are talking that we have only 21% such cadastral maps, which, unfortunately, from a negative point of view, is largely a prerequisite in the years back for serious property fraud and we should not allow this to happen anymore. Thank you for your attention and appeal to colleagues to support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u13	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there lines? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u14	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, my line to Mr. Nenkov is in two directions. Firstly, his statement relating to the fact that there is nothing wrong with the restored property map to serve as the basis of cadastral maps and there is nothing wrong with 10% error that we very bravely move forward, as the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre give no functions except for the official transfer of data, i.e. the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre in this Bill is exempted from the possibility to correct errors and to have a rightful participation and interference in the new Cadastral Cards, that is the first one. In addition, 10% in the Committee on Agriculture was also said very thorny, and in my opinion this is not true. This is some expert assessment, which is based on approximate data provided by the municipal services. Do you have any idea what this is about at 54 million acres of restored property? This is 5-6 million acres of land, which is said to be factual errors. Who's gonna fix it? At the expense of who this is going to be in the Bill, you don't say at all. The mechanical transfer of data does not improve their quality, but will make them worse. Your second thesis was that the municipal services would provide information, provide maps as well as the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency. What information about the restored property on the cadastral maps? They have a different level which each of the structures can provide as information, i.e. in no case will the service be cheaper and will not satisfy the business. In addition, I would like to say that with this Law it is true that it is fast, but there is absolutely no analysis of this procedure how it will happen in time. A hurry does not mean that we make a mistake after a mistake and that these mistakes at some point in time will be brought only in court because there is no other option. It is published in the Official Journal of the European Union on what is the cadastral map and the register and the one affected only in the court can decide and make its correction. If you're telling me that this will solve the questions of the Cadastre and the property register, I also disagree with you that we will first do the Cadastre and then the property register. These two processes have to go parallel. I agree that we must hurry. The financial resource is a mandatory condition for us to have an up-to-date Cadastral. There's nothing you can do with 12 million. The mechanical transfer will not solve the issue, but will deepen it from the point of view of the restored property map. Thank you. [[Applause from the SG of BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Is there a second line? I won't. For the doppelganger, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mrs. Bachvarova, the only thing I agree with your line is that ultimately the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency has no bearing on the creation of the property register and on the fact that the lots on each property are being investigated how, in what way they have been transferred, banned and so on, and such things. That's what I agree with. As for the fact that you say prickly calculations and data that have been provided to Angro, it is not true. There is a study that was conducted last year by the Ministry of Regional Development and, in particular, the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, in which a thorough survey of these 10% is done, indeed, not just a morbid percentage, but to be serious data. Of course, the 12 million you mentioned will go mainly to improve these mistakes. Most likely they will not be enough, but that does not mean that we should not take this step. In 2001, a prerequisite and opportunity was clearly created within this 15-year period, which we have already missed, all the information about all the properties, whether they are urbanised or not, to be concentrated in an agency to provide a cadastral service for every single citizen, for every business. I am not saying that this will solve the questions, because yes, they will be mechanically transferred from the card of restored property to cadastral maps, but this does not mean that over time, at the request of any interested citizen, this cannot be cleaned up and done. The fact is that we are too late and it is a fact that we need to make sure that each property has its own electronic identifier and is a prerequisite and the creation of the property register. Once again, between the first and second votes, some of our responsibilities as MPs are to make sure that we improve the texts, in terms of deadlines, in terms of financial collateral and so on, with which we can improve the bill. I really appeal to go in that direction. I believe that you are very well aware of the importance of the problem and deep down you know that this is the right way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u17	Thank you. A statement was given by Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to say at the very beginning that the Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill, but I still think it is appropriate to pay attention to a few essential points in the Law. What colleague Nenkov and colleague Dora Yankova said, there are two good things from the whole Law. The first is that it is high time for information to be concentrated in one place and, the second, is that in § 20, Art. 53b, however, fortunately, it is envisaged that interested parties may make claims to correct errors. So far, so good. In order to make it clear to you what the colleague Dora Yankova started explaining, I will try to explain in a more accessible language and do so for a purpose, especially to colleagues from the Committee on Regional Development, because this problem, if not removed, will really escalate very seriously in time. Map of restored property. The first problem is that the person concerned does not know at all that his property has fallen into the so-called property refund card. At the moment, I have five files on my desk, and on one case in Stara Zagora, we also did a serious check, which was, to put it mildly, from the correspondence of the various services, fracking. The Office of Agriculture did not know at all that such a property existed. The municipality refuses to issue a sketch because the person understands that his property is no longer his, when action is taken on the appropriate disposal of the property, whether it is a donation, and usually this action occurs in order years after the legal transaction for the purchase or acquisition of this property has been confessed. That was the case in Stara Zagora. A conscientious owner of a property, notice, colleagues who have managed the property for 15 years, has duly paid all taxes and fees to the municipality, on a sunny day when he decided to transfer the property to his daughter, since he is already at a bowing age, understands that this property is not his. It's just not his own, possessing all the documents, notaries... Here arises the second problem that notaries under the Law are obliged to organize an archive to store for five years, that is, the man was not even able to draw a sketch of the original transaction of the property with which to say that this property had defined boundaries, existed and was located, and the deal he confessed to is legal. We've come even to this tiny moment. It is good that § 20 gives the person concerned the opportunity to appeal. This interested person will become interested as soon as he realizes that his property is no longer his, he has become, for example, municipal property on mysterious roads. How he got up is not known because the person paid his taxes, was a conscientious owner, but someone decided that there was no property there and therefore this property would pass to the benefit of the municipality. During that time, however, another conscientious citizen may already have become the owner of this property. And this is where the case arises, and I also refer to the representatives of the Ministry, what do we do with the conscientious buyer who has already bought this property? It will become one, two, three, five interested parties who bought, sold one property. And how will we compensate them, how will the system proceed now? That's the serious problem. That's where we should think about it. Again, the law is in the right direction, the information must be concentrated in one place, but it must be considered how these errors will proceed. I agree with the colleague that the errors are not 10%, and, in my opinion, they are much higher than the percentage, it is yet to escalate when there are any misdeeds with these properties. I appeal to people here who are better experts, who know this matter better: between first and second reading to be approached very responsibly, because there is a possibility that a very serious problem will break out in two, three, five years. Then this problem will be very difficult to solve. Believe me, colleagues, I've dealt with cases like this. Indeed, the situation is very unpleasant, especially when it comes to the so-called property under § 4b. There's chaos in the municipalities. The municipalities themselves sold the properties on a legal basis 20 years ago " 1996," 1997, received the money by bank transfer, prepared the relevant protocols, people became owners and in time these people legally acquired the properties, again I tell you they are no longer owners. Their properties are included in the Restored Property Map. Such are the cases with the locality of Mentheshesheta in Varna, the cases in Stara Zagora, the cases in Burgas, in Pleven there is a very serious problem with the property exactly. I can tell you a lot, a lot. So you really need to look right in this direction very seriously. I hope the experts will pay attention to this serious problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u20	Colleague Bajraktarov, you are absolutely right, however, § 20 states that the issue of manifest factual error is treated, but if you look at § 4 the commitment by which administrative, technical or procedure the Agency can correct such a manifest error, that is to say, there is one discrepancy. Perhaps we should invite a representative, the Deputy Minister or who he ordered to share here about these 10% problems, which are clearly not created by the Bulgarian citizens, but are created by the institutions of the state who will take responsibility and at what cost? You are absolutely right that when the Cadastral card becomes a map, people will already go for these obvious factual errors with its founder of property in court, or there will be a way for the state to say: She messed up the country, we'll fix the mistakes. How much will this cost the state and the Bulgarian citizens how much will it cost? These questions are like problems. We cannot allow ourselves so quickly and administratively to transfer the data and documents to the Map and say that we have done the job. Yes, we have to go to a single Cadastral. Yeah, there's got to be a single cadastral map in the country, but we can't let the administration make someone pat themselves that we did something. Bulgarian citizens who are becoming poorer and poorer, let us put them back into a judicial procedure or let them wander away the way you shared from the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u21	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Bayraktarov, I cannot agree with you for two reasons. One thesis was very wrong, in my opinion, because you put a hypothesis in which a citizen does not know that there are in these so-called "restored property" maps. There's no way that the citizen himself doesn't know, because on the abbreviation of the recovery card, it means that every citizen asked for it, restored it to the ground, was subject to judicial review, had the opportunity to request or reject a court decision. So in the end, there's no way there's going to be a hypothesis here. He was introduced into his right to have property in this territory. That's one. And the other one. I cannot agree with anything else, as can my colleague, who also replicated Mrs. Yankova and your statement, as well as with you, about people wandering. At the moment people are wandering about because we have, as I said earlier in my speech, one information is found in the Agriculture and Forestry Office, the other information is found in the municipalities themselves, respectively in their services, and in the third country is the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre Agency, which, on its own, this fragmentation of information, rather leads to the negative feeling that there can be much more fraud in this way, about what you were talking about, than if the information is in one agency and only it provides cadastral information. I'm sorry, not just her, but all the information, the database is in her. It is much easier for any interested citizen when he receives this information, if anything doubts, to ask to make a more accurate reference to his property. So I don't see anything wrong with all our information being in one place. It will be much easier for the citizens too. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] Yes, I didn't say that you said that, but I rather take the opportunity to replicate and Mrs. Yankova in this part that this is probably the wrong step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. One more line, Mr. Mitev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, I do not agree with your speech because it did not cover the part of the Law on Amendment and Supplement, which concerns the property register. For me the bigger problems will come not from inserting the Map of Restored Property into the Cadastral Map than from those changes that are being proposed there. Firstly, it became clear to the Committee on Legal Affairs that the coordination procedures there were not very well done and there was no communication between the Ministry of Regional Development, in particular the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Ministry of Justice. The Registry Agency said they hadn't been notified at all. That is why you have heard from the report of the Legal Commission that its President Kirilov requested opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Registry Agency, precisely because these authorities are directly dealing with the Property Register. The property register is part of the Registry Agency, part of the Ministry of Justice, and in the Law we introduce a concept as a.......... party case...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We declare that the lot has a publicity action. This is legal absurd. It is not the lot that has a publicity action, but the entry in this account has such an effect, i.e. in these parts the Law is not well written. He will need substantial changes. I can think of another flaw. The Law provides that in electronic accounts, electronic partisan cases, only acts under art. Art. 103, Art. 105 of the Property Act. Colleagues, what do we do with contractual mortgages? Don't we have a contract mortgage to write down? If we're not gonna fit them in, how do you know there's a mortgage on a property you want to buy tomorrow? So in this respect, they are not good for me and they will need a very broad debate and even an extension of the period between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Bayraktarov, come in. You have three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All three lines were valuable. I will first respond to my colleague Nenkov. I definitely said that we are in the middle of this and we take it as a positive that the information must be collected in one place. With regard to the restored property, colleague Nenkov, this restored property is, in its vast majority, for the benefit of the municipalities. Turn off the matter when citizens recover property. Do you understand me? It is being restored in the official way of municipalities and people do not know that their property has already become the municipality. If you want, I'll show you some documents to see for yourself. And there will already arise in our opinion a serious problem, a very serious problem! As for Mrs. Dora Yankova's line. You're absolutely right, Mrs. Yankova, about the Coliseum between § 4 and § 20. We've scored it. We have noticed it, but we believe that it is not such a big problem from the point of view that between first and second reading, this problem can be faced and that this collision can be removed. That's not a problem. The problem is the other thing that I agree with you on and which I have put out in my speech and you also agree. As for the reply of colleague Christian Mitev, which is very important and thank you, colleague Mitev, for raising it because we really missed this moment. Here I will draw my attention to my colleague Nenkov, to my colleague Yankova and to all colleagues. In the property register, as you know, the property is only registered under a notary act. From there will arise the other problem, which we now notice, along with colleague Mitev and other representatives from the Patriotic Front, we try to confront through the mortgage loan law, and that is when the property is mortgaged. What happens then? The property is mortgaged, the mortgage does not fit into the property register, which is a huge omission, can otherwise be placed this property, which also does not fit into the property register, but against it certain entities, with unclean thoughts and actions, can abuse very seriously. And here you are absolutely right, and thank you, colleague Mitev. As you know, we are trying to solve this issue through the mortgage loan law. I am very surprised that it is the people who are dealing with this matter in the banking circles of BNB who have given negative opinions on this serious problem. Like they're interested in being able to commit property abuse? And apparently someone is really interested in this thing happening and the citizens being harmed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's really appropriate for representatives of the Ministry to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? Mr. Zelenogorski, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Undoubtedly, the Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act is extremely important. Although a significant part of the colleagues are not in the Chamber and are not involved in the debate, let me say that there can be no modern state without general planning, no cadastre, without clearing these extremely important things for a territorial settlement, for the ownership of the people, for the investment process. Unfortunately, despite the efforts of the Ministry and of all institutions, there are many things that need to be corrected. There is still a very small part of the Bulgarian municipalities that has an active General Development Plan. As for the Cadastral, I would say that this is an extremely important step, and I would ask everyone to support it. We're gonna support him because our colleagues are in deep shit. These are the details that could be placed between first and second readings. I therefore propose that we consider extending the period between first and second readings to allow all the details to be examined and all the proposals to be made. But, anyway, a support of this Bill at first reading would, in my opinion, be extremely important. When we talk, as we said, about cadastral, property and investment process, it is quite logical and normal to improve our base and base to an average European level that guarantees us calmness and accuracy and objectivity in all these processes. Yes, a very serious debate on details, but I will once again return to the most important things, because somehow the structure of the Bill and what is most important escapes, sinking into these details, namely that this Bill will speed up the process of creating a cadastral map and cadastral registers and will ease the procedure for creating them in unurbanised territories. This is an extremely important task, which the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, and the Ministry, and we, as the National Assembly, and the institutions must ensure. It is given the opportunity and authority of the municipal agriculture services to carry out on behalf of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency part of the administrative services activities with cadastral information. This opportunity, which is created for municipal administrations, will support the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster services in the overall implementation of this administration. We are constantly talking about an e-government. Here, if we are talking about e-government, here is the place to say that this bill creates opportunities for issuing an electronic sketch and schemes that will reduce the cost of issuing them and traditional paper media and not only that, but will also reduce the costs of consumers of cadastral information, which will be able not only to state, but also to receive sketches and schemes by electronic means instead of a counter. So, here, an electronic service is being introduced, which is really part of this old electronic government that we are looking for. I would ask that we support the bill. I know that in terms of property, there are serious problems that need to be addressed, with regard to the establishment of registers, there will be serious transfers, but, anyway, this step just needs to be taken. Let me say that the changes to the Law will also lead to a reduction in errors. All colleagues who have some experience as mayors or municipal councilors, we know how often it turns out that in paper form a property is marked in a corresponding way, and where there is an electronic medium and where digitalisation of the cadastral is carried out, there are serious changes and differences which, in the specification phase, require the owners, from the municipalities a lot of resources, a lot of nerves and a lot of time, which in any case creates problems for the implementation of some kind of construction and for the implementation of some serious process. I say this for a reason, because really the electronization of this whole process and getting into some serious regulation frameworks will ease the procedure, clear the mechanism and really make us a modern state. A modern state, as I said, without general planning, without cadastral, without clearing all things relating to the property of the people and owners, could not meet the requirements of an average European level of service. In conclusion. Let us, fellow Members, support the bill, let us extend the deadline as much as possible, and let us improve it between first and second readings in such a way that it is in service to both institutions and businesses and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Are there lines? First line please, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Zenogorski, by agreeing with you that it is necessary to speed up the process of creating cadastral maps and cadastral registers, however, in my opinion the haste adopted by the Law will create much more problems than it will solve the issue. In our opinion, first of all, no in-depth analysis has been carried out at the moment what is the state of the property register. Here, my colleague Bajraktarov said that no property has been restored. It is true that there is § 19, there you have a land fund where the property has not been restored and is granted to the municipalities. You also have lease contracts - another representative from the speeches stressed, which have certain burdens. The issue of this Bill is that the problems come in the details and proposals that are being made. I would like to draw your attention, for example, to a serious contradiction which is written in the Law and related to the finding of a discrepancy between urbanised and unurbanised territory. This is a serious issue because, with the current Law, the Agency has had the opportunity, through an able person, to remedy these discrepancies. According to the current proposals, this is done in a professional way and the data is transferred without any consideration of how the discrepancies will be dealt with, and the only way to do so is by judicial means. Agree that someone made a mistake, but it's not who owns it. These equivalences should not be automatically transferred to the cadastral map. The bill is filled with technical details that will create an extremely big problem for anyone who owns land ownership. Apart from that, the procedure will not be eased. Instead of going in the direction of an Agency to carry out all activities, it is allocated to municipal services, they will work for free. Explain to me how between two departments one will work for free and the other will accumulate corresponding maps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u32	They don't have time, they don't have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u33	We'll see about that. You really don't have time. Your time in the debate on the bill has expired. But, wait, it's not extended time. Would you like a time extension?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u34	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u35	Please extend the time of all parliamentary groups. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zelenogorski, first of all, as Chairman of the leading Commission, which is responsible for the Law we are discussing at the moment, you should know very well that the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency offers electronic services. Even from the past, the government with changes to the Cadastral Act and the property register can now receive cards electronically, so justification with lack of electronic services is not correct. The second thing I would like to make clear is that the transfer of the map of the restored property as cadastral maps will automatically bring errors into the cadastral system, and they cost dearly not only the state but also the citizens. It's not like we take green and red apples and mix them in a bag. Believe me, this is a very serious process, and with these mistakes there will be quite serious consequences for administrative and financial, naturally. The other question. I personally did not hear, and in my opinion, the Cadastral must decide on this topic whether they have the capacity at all, when the Ministry of Agriculture and Food gives them these maps of restored property, to deal with the carry-over. I don't think that's gonna happen. However long a time for proposals to make between first and second readings, the mistakes and problems that we will create will not be able to fix because the bill itself has been conceived in the wrong way. I will end with this because Mr. Nenkov said several times... in the last 7-8 years only the previous government has allowed itself to give money to create a cadastral map in the country. We ourselves know that in this agency, every percentage of cadastral map leads to revenue for the state. It's an agency that brings profit to the state. So instead of giving us some 12 million, which we will then have to force us to give more money to fix the problems that we are going to create with them, it is better to give them to create a real cadastral map than this fake action and to do something that we are supposed to do, but really we will do nothing but trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Is there a third line? I won't. You have two lines and three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u38	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, colleague! Look, I take everything you say very seriously. I do not think that on this bill this tribune can be used for some sharp political debate, we are simply trying to be as expert as possible, for the benefit of the citizens of Bulgaria and of the business, to make it so that we can improve the state of a system, improve a Law and make it more effective and better functioning. Naturally, once the bill has been tabled, the potential and opportunities of the Agency to deal with the additional activities that will be assigned to it in a rapid period of time have been considered. Of course there are electronic services, but of course the number of these electronic services and the possibility of using them must be expanded. There's only one thing I can't agree to. We always say, "Let's not be hasty about this, let's not be hasty about the other, it's not the time yet. Therefore, because the time has not yet come for me at least I have been dealing with local government for 15-20 years and twenty years we have been waiting, because it is not the time for us to make modern arrangements for both the cadastre and the structure of the territory to ensure a calm, effective and objective investment process and to guarantee the ownership of citizens and businesses. I mean, I think the time has come, and let's between first and second readings make it possible to improve the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u39	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Honourable Members, is there any wish to speak on the draft discussion? Here you go, Mr. Christov. Are there any other people? I won't, so we'll assume that's the last statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Committee on Agriculture and Food is not leading under the bill that we are currently discussing, but we, as a distributed bill in the Commission, have considered it, and very seriously. The discussion held was professional. Perhaps a little selfish will sound, but we were primarily interested in what happens when building a single cadaster with the services provided to farmers. This is extremely important from the point of view that most farmers participate in different programmes and often need to update the plots of land properties with which they participate in European programmes when applying for subsidies, when applying for loans from commercial banks and the way they will receive this service is of great importance. I agree with most of the concerns expressed by BSP colleagues left Bulgaria, the Patriotic Front and GERB. I therefore also share the proposal made by the President of the leading Commission to maximise the period between the first and second votes. All reasonable proposals shared in plenary should be provided and reflected in the Law between the first and second votes. However, I hope that the practice will not be what it has shown at the moment the experimental introduction of a single cadaster in some regions. She's like this. Before the introduction of the experimental single cadastre in these regions, the sketch was taken by the municipal land commission for half an hour. It is now necessary to travel from the respective settlement to the district town where the Cadastral headquarters is, to apply and, for example, after a week to go and receive the application. All that we are doing must be structured in such a way as to facilitate as much as any users of the services to be provided. I repeat: moods should not be moody, but be rational. Mr President and honourable Members, the Law is very expert. We must listen to the opinions of the House of geodesists, the people who are relevant to the bill, as well as the opinions of the MPs. They have expressed reasonable proposals, which I hope will find their reflection in the consideration of the Second Voting Bill. I call on all Members of the National Assembly to support the bill because this is a step we have been talking about for more than 10 years. That's how it is in developed countries. I hope so in Bulgaria too! I hope for the support of all parliamentary groups. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u41	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any willing to take sides in the debate? I won't. The debate on the discussion bill is over. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats in this Chamber, a vote is yet to be taken. Honourable Members, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cadastral and Property Register Act, No 602-01-12, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 March 2016. Vote 117 MPs: 95 against 8, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zelenogorski, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My proposal, as I have also mentioned in my speech, is that we extend the deadline between first and second readings to be able to look at the subject in detail, to reflect all the proposals from colleagues, including those who did not support the Bill, in order to give society a good mechanism for settling these relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u43	Thank you. Is there an obnoxious opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Mr. Zelenogorski. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Second procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is under art. 80, para. 1 in connection with the Road Traffic Act, No 602-01-14, which we adopted yesterday, to reduce the time limit for considering proposals between the two readings to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u45	Thank you. Is there an opposite opinion and an offer? Here you go. Mr. Bayraktarov has the opposite opinion. We're about to hear it. Mr. Bayraktarov, are you giving up? Okay. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the procedural proposal made by Mr. Ananiev. Vote 101 MPs: 88 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, there are three minutes until the end of the first part of today's sitting. Parliamentary control begins at 11:00 p.m. Time out. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u46	Honourable Members of Parliament, the sitting shall continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 9 May to 12 May 2016: There was a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev to Bozidar Lukarski, Minister of Economy, concerning a policy for support of small and medium-sized enterprises in the food industry. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 20 May 2016. Written answers to service: - by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on a request from the National Representative Tuncher Kardzhaliev; - from Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov; - by Prime Minister Boyko Borisov on a request from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov and Ivan Stankov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on two issues by the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister of Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin to two questions from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to six questions by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva to a question from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to nine questions from Mr. Pavlov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on 13 issues from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov and Ivan Ivanov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Velizar Enchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the MPs Dimitar Dubov and Manol Genov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Dubov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Borislav Iglev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question from the MP Borislav Iglev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to three questions from the MPs Vladislav Nikolov and Plamen Tachev Petrov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MP Vladislav Nikolov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to two questions of the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to two questions from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Ivanov Kirilov Ivanov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova to a question from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Lachezar Nikiforov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to two questions from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to two questions from the National Representative Chavdar Peychev. First in today's parliamentary control is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, who will answer one question and one question. The question belongs to the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov on the policy of the government and the actions related to the dropping of the cooperation and verification mechanism implemented by the European Commission, which will be developed by Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is an up-to-date question which, by analyzing it, we can actually conclude that it is up-to-date for 10 years because the monitoring and monitoring system of the Bulgarian judiciary lasts more than 10 years. Dear Prime Minister, for 10 years the area of justice and internal order in Bulgaria has been subject to a mechanism for verification and cooperation by the European Commission and the partners of the European Union. A number of reports were written, many times discussed and a number of transformations and reforms were undertaken as a result. It has become clear lately that this monitoring mechanism on our judicial system has been going on too long and, at the same time, does not bring significant results to improve the situation of the observed system. Unfortunately, it is wrong to be bound both by our Schengen membership and by our participation in the common borders of the European Union. On the other hand, this mechanism has become permanently the subject of abuse by politicians and interested groups to maintain constant and destructive pressure on the justice system to denigrate magistrates and institutions to deal with them. A common assessment of the nationally responsible political forces in Bulgaria is that this mechanism has exhausted its effectiveness and represents the last and painful, unfortunately, obstacle to Bulgaria's full status as a member of the European Union. Our question to you is: what is the general policy of the Bulgarian Government for dropping this verification and cooperation mechanism, what are the specific actions and strategy of the administration to solve these problems, and within what time limits do you provide for, of course, you cannot specify precise deadlines for the implementation of this meaningless supervision, which will also be an assessment of real success in the reforms undertaken in the last amendments of the Constitution and a number of laws?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u48	Mr. Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u49	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, Mr. Yonchev, I have a long answer that I will give you, but it is not necessary to bore the audience. I take more the monitoring mechanism as a mechanism of cooperation because indeed, in this area, many things have been done and, of course, much more we have to do. Not without the help of the Bulgarian Parliament have changed in the Constitution fundamental things that have been taken into account and are in the right direction, starting from the division of the Supreme Council into judges' and prosecutors', with the increased role of the Inspectorate, with these judges choosing judges, prosecutors, prosecutors and many other things that you have accepted. Now with the laws on the judiciary, on the various procedural laws that are being prepared, and with a very good dialogue with the European Commission, I think we are on the right track. In a word, putting the issue of dropping the mechanism in this way is the right thing to do the work that, on the one hand, the Bulgarian people want, on the other hand, and what is as a requirement for us from Brussels. If memory serves, I think that next Wednesday the Interior Minister, the Justice Minister, the Attorney General will go to Brussels to note what has been done so far and to coordinate the next steps in advance and to know that this is indeed the right direction. I would like to remind you that, in his speech, European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker unambiguously stated that, within the framework of this mandate, this Commission, the mechanism must be removed. He'll drop out when we do all our work. I truly hope that the state will not be pushed into chaos, that there will be a parliament to pass all these laws, because the rest of the country without parliament for months, I do not see how we will deal with this task. But it's your will, it's the political will of all political parties, so I'm counting on you here too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u50	Two supplementary questions, Mr. Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u51	Madam President, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen and ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! I agree, Mr. Borisov, that there are even differences in the concept and interpretation of the concept of a mechanism for cooperation and verification, even purely language, because in Bulgaria the notion of a monitoring system was imposed, which has nothing to do with cooperation or verification. The name, which is original in the Accession Agreement of Bulgaria, is quite different. It's about verification and cooperation. It is beyond that that a number of similar cases have arisen within the European Union with other countries' judicial systems. I give you an example immediately Poland, where there is even war, we would say, between the institutions and between the judiciary and the executive, but such mechanisms were nowhere introduced. My question to you is rather: do you see in development an opportunity to transform this mechanism into an internal report drawn up, if you wish, by the presidents of the three judicial institutions in Bulgaria or by the Supreme Judicial Council, a report to the National Assembly, in which to really analyse the progress in the judiciary, reform and make the relevant decisions? Because let us not be fooled by the European Commission cannot make decisions in Bulgaria. It cannot change the Bulgarian judiciary. She can give recommendations, she can give advice. This goes beyond the concept of cooperation, but when it comes to real reform and its implementation, it is happening here in the Chamber of the National Assembly. Therefore, I repeat, my question is: do you intend to offer the European Commission a replacement of this mechanism with an internal mechanism or an internal report on judicial reform in the coming years so that once and for all Bulgaria becomes a truly full member of the European Union? And this sovereign right to analyze and monitor our judicial system to return here, where it belongs, to the House of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u52	Prime Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u53	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yonchev, the exact word is indeed a co-operation, and we can easily pretend to be offended, but we ourselves know that there is much we still want in the reforms that are being done in our judiciary and therefore I say that next year, next summer, I am convinced that by adopting all these laws, in carrying out these reforms, we will have a new solution, but first to do our job and then the evaluation always comes. Because you were also talking about Schengen. You have seen that life has proved that we are much more prepared for Schengen, and even now they are embarrassed and uncomfortable with those who have stopped us. Undoubtedly everyone saw, and you may have read about one of the terrorists, who accidentally gave us confirmation of the words that he tried to pass through Bulgaria, but the border guards here were good and that's why you went through Greece the other way. So as time goes by, one by one you see, things sort out. The question is, again, that there should be full unanimity and assistance from the Bulgarian Parliament. On this topic, you yourself said it was addressed a long time ago, no political dividend can be extracted. If it succeeds, it will be common to the entire parliament and to the state. If there's a loss, we'll only talk and attack. I hope the first one's a better option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u54	Mr. Haytov's attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, Vice-Presidents, honourable Members! I fully share what the Prime Minister has said that no one can really make political dividends, and that is because.. notice, on many issues we have been divided many times, but the issue.. Dropping the monitoring or monitoring of the judiciary.... is something that unites us. Perhaps some of you do not know, but on 16 March this year in Brussels, a conference was organised in the European Parliament. And, notice, it was organized by all our MEPs in the European Parliament and Emil Radev from the EPP group, and Mrs. Iliana Yotova from the Socialist Party, and Mrs. Feliz Husmenova, and Mr. Angel Dzhambazki, and all together our representatives in the European Parliament said that we could no longer and should not continue this insulting monitoring and monitoring of the independent judiciary. Because also in the security of our common European border, we have shown that we are really better and that the employees at the Ministry of Interior are doing their job more than their European colleagues and partners. And the fact that European officials are binding our Schengen membership with monitoring is really incorrect and incorrect. I would like to thank our representatives in the European Parliament for their clear general opinion about dropping this monitoring, because, notice, it is unfair to the Bulgarian magistrates as well. In fact, the Alumni of the Faculty of Law are accused of being the most unprepared, the most corrupt people, and that is not the case! It's just that in this system, there really are a lot of decent and authoritative people working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u56	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. The following is a question from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov on the appointment of a Head of Staff at the State Agency. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Prime Minister, on 1 November last year, the new Law on State Agency Intelligence came into force. In this regard, it became known that Mr. Angelo Prokopiev was appointed as Vice-President of the State Agency for Intelligence, which was published on 23 December 2015. In accordance with art. 14, para. 3 of the Law on the State Agency "Research" These appointments are made by decision of the Council of Ministers. In this regard, my question is: what are the professional qualities of this person, which gave the Council of Ministers reason to take this decision? I would like to say in advance, Prime Minister, yesterday from your statement in London in the Bulgarian political jargon, a concept of "portraits" came into force. And I think that one of your backdrops in the answer will be that this person once his 18 years ago was assigned to the service that I led, but that's what I'm saying ahead of time. The person has been appointed to this leadership position in an office which has a very specific subject of business without having one day's work in that Agency. He has worked in a completely different field and in this regard I really want to know what these professional qualities are that have given reason for you to take this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u58	For an answer Mr. Borisov, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u59	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atanasov, in the tone of correctness this is the answer to your question which I have prepared. I'll leave it to you, and if you see such a point of support, I'll apologize from this tribune. Not at all have I questioned people who have been appointed during your management of the service for something to put it as an antithesis. Moreover, we have worked with you and I think that at the time when we worked, we worked in very good sync. At least that's my impression. Within the limits of the powers and under the provision of art. 41, para. 3 of the State Agency Act "Intel" adopted by the Forty- Third National Assembly on 1 October 2015, in force on 1 November 2015, the Chairman of the State Agency "Intel" prepared a proposal to me for the appointment of two Vice-Presidents, including Mr. Angelo Prokopiev. The appointment of a second Vice-President was proposed in order to create the necessary organisation and effectively implement the priority operational and information tasks assigned to the State Agency............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The increased volume of activities entrusted to the State Agency...................................................................................................... Mr. Angelo Prokopiev has an 18-year internship in the National Security Protection System, appointed on 20 August 1998. He has passed successively through different positions from an operational worker to head of a structural unit in the National Security Service and the State Agency. He has the necessary professional and language training and meets the required requirements for taking up the position of Vice-President. The proposal of the President of the State Agency.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you have any evidence that he's not doing well, I'll put it to the Director of Intelligence as a matter of fact, and I'll take it into consideration. At this point, I don't have that kind of data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u60	The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. You said and it came out of your answer that you were ready for correctness, but I'm not ready. First of all, I'm glad you admitted that this man doesn't have a day's work in intelligence, but that's one by hand. What I want to say, I have said from this tribune and I will repeat it again: so that the Oresharski government, Sergey Stanishev, can be made up of your previous colleague, gave the security sector to the concession of the DPS and the Sarai-library group. During the establishment of the current government, we expected that you would take vigorous measures to break the connection between the security services and the Bulgarian oligarchy. Not only did you not do this thing, but continued this concession. This assignment is part of this whole thing. And not only that, unfortunately, the security sector today is unable to carry out the tasks that stand before it, precisely because of this dependence, Mr. Prime Minister. The continuing of this personnel trade not only in the structure State Agency "Research" in general throughout the security sector is detrimental to the Bulgarian state and you are responsible for this. I'm telling you from this tribune, to know everything. Otherwise, talking about how you're fighting smuggling, that's also the prop, but it's a very difficult problem. The problem is very difficult in the State Agency. The problem is difficult in the National Security Agency, especially difficult is the problem in the Ministry of Internal Affairs because it has come to the importance of assigning people to key positions as heads of nicknames. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u62	Hole, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u63	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I've always been ready for correctness, that's my character. I think it's a virtue, it's not a bad thing. Mrs. Bachvarova is here. She picked her team, picked him, and I think she's running him pretty well. The assessment given to us only a week ago the Deputy Secretary of State for Security is that Bulgaria is an example of many countries in the fight against corruption and smuggling. I think you know these services very well, these are not people who talk nonsense. That is what our English colleagues said in London yesterday. We're trying very hard. I am far from thinking that in this complex world and environment we have blossomed and are the best that can be done, but it does not prevent us from trying. And at least three operations are underway at the moment of the DANS, the Ministry of Interior, from night and illegal migrants. The people there need support and peace, so that's what we've done, that's what we've provided. I trust Drago Dimitrov. And if it makes you angry or calmed down, I haven't even met the vice presidents, I'm working with him. I didn't meet the man in question to talk to him. It's my job to appoint his replacements and his team. It is no accident that the Deputy Minister is of your political power in the Interior Ministry, so I hope that if there is any information about the fact that Mrs. Bachvarova is misleading me and compromising me in time to tell me. I continue not only to be correct, but also to show respect for you, because in the time we have worked, and you have worked there, you have proven your professionalism. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] To conclude, you are now taking on a vice-president who has been in the security services for 18 years. You're right. He didn't work in intelligence. But I remember a period when the head of intelligence became a man who didn't have a single day of experience at all in this field. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Borisov, for participating in today's parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u65	Ninova's gone?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u66	Yeah. Next time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u67	Don't let them say I was scared.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u68	He's absent for respectable reasons. Next time. We're expecting you next Friday to answer her. Following are Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova's responses to Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister. The first question will be from the MP Svetoslav Belemezov on the need for specialized preparation of the investigating authorities in the Ministry of Interior regarding the investigation of crimes committed by minors. We're listening, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u69	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The investigation of crimes committed by minors under the specific rules laid down under Chapter XXX of the PPC and in particular in accordance with the provision of art. 385 of the PPC should be carried out by investigative police officers who have undergone prior special training. This requirement for specialised bodies to investigate such crimes in the pre-trial phase is in line with the international standard for the specialization of investigative bodies to the justice of juvenile offenders. The specialization of investigative police officers is extremely important because it is they who are the first authorities of the investigation with which the minor perpetrator comes into contact with the justice system. In this regard, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you the following: What is the number of investigative police officers in the Ministry of Interior who have special preparations to investigate pre-trial proceedings for crimes committed by minors? Is there a statutory document setting out the order for the award and distribution of pre-trial proceedings for crimes committed by minors in the Ministry of Interior, and has a timetable for the current training course 2016 for investigating officers who have not undergone special preparation for the investigation of crimes committed by minors been drawn up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u70	For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Belemezov, the total number of investigators in the country is 1778. From them, up to now, special preparations for investigating pre-trial proceedings for crimes committed by minors have passed 427 employees. For this year, there is a schedule for vocational training of investigative officers established by the order of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior of 18 February 2016. The schedule sets out courses for the update of professional qualifications related to the investigation of crimes involving minors. At present, the course carried out in April has ended. Courses are coming in June and August, as well as a course to update the professional qualification related to the specialized hearing of victims of child or at the risk of violence, which is scheduled to take place in October this year. By the end of the school year, 88 investigative police officers are to be trained and certified. Apart from this, in connection with the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation between the Ministry of Interior and UNICEF, which was signed on 8 March this year, we plan to conduct training in December on the topic of Psychological Approaches in the conduct of interrogation of juvenile and juvenile children. The training is part of the implementation of the plan for the activities of the Professional Committee on Human Rights and Police Ethics in the Ministry of Interior for 2016. Regarding the order for the award and distribution of pre-trial proceedings, I would like to inform you that it is not determined by a statutory regulation. For 15 of the structures of the Ministry of Interior in the country there are orders issued by directors with designated roll-call officers working on the investigation of crimes involving minors and for the other bodies the distribution is carried out on a common basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. The line, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. In fact, we have raised this issue, which concerns the specialized preparation of investigative police officers in the context of the fact that the human factor in the Ministry of Interior is extremely important. The need to detail the various specialized preparations in the Ministry of Interior system is extremely important. Of course, there are other sectors and other directions for which the need to create and improve training methods is screaming. We appeal right that way. We believe that the main form of professionalism by the employees of the Ministry of Interior goes through these mechanisms "specialized training," internal trainings, creation of better internal and motivational mechanisms. In this regard, we appeal for your detailed attention, as the reform you have envisaged since the beginning of last year, launched by the former Minister Mr. Vuchkov, claims to improve the general conditions in the system and to improve the general working conditions of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u74	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Right on the back. You're giving up. The next question is from the MP Yavor Haytov. I don't see him in the gym. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Velizar Penkov Enchev concerning the attraction of retired police officers and secret services for the workings of the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Madam Minister, despite the efforts of the Ministry of Interior, domestic crime in the country is one of the biggest problems in small towns. I believe that one of the ways to deal with this chronic problem is the use of the apparatus of the essential retired employees of the Ministry of Interior, DANS, National Intelligence and other services, retired employees who have retired and live in the respective settlements. I believe that when selecting these personnel, it was a useful interaction between your head institution and non-governmental organizations, which bring together former employees of the Ministry of Interior and secret services, and I stress that former employees with high-level legal literacy and experience in working with the criminal contingent. My question to you is: do you take similar steps to form the so-called 'Aparate of Things' for the fight against domestic crime, and I stress once again that in small towns? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I want to make a distinction in terms of the question you are asking me. As far as the unsecretive collaborators are concerned, they are attracted in a special order established in the Ministry of Interior. This is not a question of a common policy or an answer in this House. This is a matter of specific rules and decisions, and we cannot discuss it. However, as for us to attract as workers in employment already retired employees, this is another aspect of the topic you are putting. We are aware of the resource that exists in society, but so far we have not had the legal opportunity to attract such people who have had police powers have experience, but are currently retired. That is why we are proposing in the draft law on the Ministry of Interior Change in art. 151, para. 7, which will enable the carrying of official weapons to these persons and to direct them to positions and posts related to security. We expect this to be accepted and to enable many of the employees to re-enter these functions. I personally rely very much on this opportunity so that people who are currently policemen, gendarmes and perform these functions can be redirected essentially to the street and assist in overcoming domestic crime. I will take this opportunity to say that we have restored and strengthened the work of the Council for the fight against conventional crime. We start with a new approach. So far, the concentration has been on protecting victims and providing more security opportunities, and now we want to start a broad action policy to engage all institutions, social services and local authorities in preventing domestic crime. So we want to mobilise the entire society to fight this extremely dangerous phenomenon in our society. The other direction in which we are currently developing our concrete measures is the work with the perpetrators of domestic crimes. Here, the analysis shows that an extremely large number of them recur in the conduct of such crimes, even the criminal measures that apply to them are not effective. Sometimes they don't even apply. There aren't enough good rehabilitation programs for those who get out of prison. I can therefore assure you that we are working not only to provide the necessary personnel from the Ministry of Interior, but to attract anyone who meets the legal requirements, but also in a much wider way. There will be meetings on site, for example next month, which I will conduct with all local authorities to put on new tracks the fight against domestic crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u78	Thank you, Madame Deputy Prime Minister. The line, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u79	Madam Minister, I am entirely satisfied with your answer. I am pleasantly surprised by the news that you have just announced that you are preparing such a change in the Ministry of Interior Act, which will enable the capacity of retired employees from the Ministry's system, people who worked in the secret services of the Republic of Bulgaria in internal and external terms, people who have legal culture and professional qualifications in the professional field. Moreover, since senior officials of the Ministry of Interior and services can be ministers, prime ministers, MPs, committee chairmen and so on, why can't retired employees, and at an active age, work and cooperate on the ground after this amendment in the legislation that you propose?! The so-called self-government, which has been observed lately, especially in the protection of the state border, which, on the one hand, is a patriotic act, but on the other hand, from a purely legal point of view, is quite controversial, will be limited in this situation, even more so if weapons are allowed and carried by those employees who have the relevant experience. I am convinced that in the meetings you will meet with representatives of NGOs, you will get more valuable ideas. Supporting the fight against domestic crime is a national problem, not a local problem!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Right on the back, Mrs. Bachvarova? You're giving up. Question from the National Representative Yavor Iliev Haytov on the activities of Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are in the first half of 2016, and this is a period in which different administrative structures make their annual reports and analyses. The reports of the main Directorates of the Ministry of Interior became publicly known, as well as the reports of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior. In the spirit of the actions taken to combat corruption on all levels of government and administration as a whole, it would be of interest to everyone what they did in the past 2015 Department of the Ministry of Interior. I am aware, Madam Vice Prime Minister, that you are not in a position to inform us of a case. In general, however, we want to know what these two important Directorates for the Ministry of Interior have done over the past year. In this direction my questions to you are to introduce us to the activities of the above Directorates: How many complaints, signals, what files have they examined, how many of them have been forwarded to the Prosecutor's Office? Are there any criminal cases or lawsuits already in place? What is the balance of the functioning of these two Directorates in the Ministry of Interior?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u82	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u83	Dear Mr. Tsochev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr. Haytov! These two directorates are also directly subordinate to me. Before I read the reference, I want to tell you that I am extremely satisfied with their work over the past year. I work very actively with them, they inform me almost constantly about their work and the course of their work. So now I'm going to introduce you to the quantitative dimensions. In the implementation of events of the Management Action Plan, 2015 the staff of the Directorate of the Inspectorate have carried out a total of 12 planned inspections. Outside of this plan, thematic checks were also carried out related to the priorities of the Ministry of Interior for 2015, covering 146 structures. In addition, checks were carried out on the received signals by administrative order and by e-mail, which total 785 of them, 461 of them were sent to other bodies in terms of competence and 324 signals were taken from the Directorate. By state inspectors alone or with the participation of employees from other structures of the Ministry of Interior 82 out-of-plan inspections have been carried out, of which 79 checks under an alert within the meaning of the APC and 3 checks under the order of art. 145, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Judiciary. The files sent to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office for 2015 are 12. The checks related to GPS control on the implementation of patrol post work are 73 pieces. In 2015, the Directorate of the Ministry of Interior actively participated in the preparation and holding of the first meeting of the Internal Affairs Coordination Council on Anti-Corruption in the Ministry of Interior. With the active cooperation and coordination of the Directorate of Inspectorate, a plan of the Ministry of Interior for curbing corruption in the authorities of the Ministry has been prepared and this is the main and first priority in recent months, on which we are really very actively working. In the Directorate of Homeland Security, the work report shows significantly better results compared to the previous 2014: pre-trial proceedings for 2015. Punishment for 30 in 2014; Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment. Punishment for Punishment for 30 in 2014; Punishment for Punishment for Punishment. Punishment for Punishment for Punishment. Punishment for Punishment. Punishment for 30 in 2014. Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for 2014. Other Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for 2014 and Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment of Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for 2014 and Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for 2014 punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Punishment for Only here is the proportion of 30 in 2014, but there the reasons were of a different nature. These results are largely due to the activity of the video surveillance system established in August. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Perhaps later, as an addition, I can introduce you to the rest of the reference.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u84	If you'd like, you're entitled to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u85	Yeah. In a moment, I will also give you detailed information and statistics about each of the checks and cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Haytov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, in my opinion, first of all, your statistics and even more importantly, a marked good action of these two departments in the Ministry of Interior is important for the employees themselves. It is important for everyone to know that there are two specialized directorates who are called, on the one hand, to take action and fight corruption in the Ministry of Interior, on the other hand, to act preventively so as not to allow them, as you yourself said, and in a corrupt environment, cases that undermine the prestige of the Ministry as a whole. On the other hand, I am not particularly impressed by the fact that there is an increase in the number of files which have also been dealt with and signals to the prosecution and the pre-trial proceedings. This makes it clear that, unfortunately, there is a problem with corruption in the Ministry of Interior. We, as MPs and as the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, have told you before that we are at your disposal to take action and create working conditions for employees who, after all, do not submit to corruption pressure. For my part, I could say that I congratulate the employees in these two directorates, who are not so famous, are not so popular, do not stand in front of the spotlights of the cameras, and do seemingly very ungrateful work, because they are forced in one way or another to work against their fellow Members who commit violations. Congratulations on my part too! From another point of view, as the Commission, we are at your disposal to improve the activities of these two important directorates [[the President signals that time has run out]] because the government has said many times that action must be taken to combat corruption on all levels of power and inspectorates, both the Chief Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers and the inspectorates in individual departments, I believe they are debtors. Their activity is not sufficiently public, it is not clear enough, and it is not effective enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. The right to duplicate, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u89	Dear Mr. Haytov, the two directorates are extremely important. More importantly and what needs to be known by everyone is that they do not just work much more actively in the last year, they work very well together, as well as with the other services, working with the Inspectorate of the Council of Ministers, and all checks so far have been without specific remarks regarding their work. Yes, with great regret, we must admit that there is corruption in the Ministry of Interior, but what I can declare is that no one is turning a blind eye to it right now. There is not a single case in which we have not carried out an inspection and have not ruled by law the appropriate measure and taken measures. In this sense, statistics sometimes mislead, but increasing the number of such cases actually shows our approach. I think that's what our government's policy is about. As regards the Commission's call for assistance, I count very soon on the adoption of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior, because there is a very detailed description of the mechanism to be applied to limit corruption practices and I think that this mechanism implemented in the Ministry of Interior will be a very good example for all other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u90	I thank Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister for Home Affairs, for her participation in today's parliamentary control. To three questions will be answered by Tomislav Donchev, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy. The first question is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on the redistribution of funds under the Programme period 2014 - 2020. Here you are, dear Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! Firstly, to thank you for responding promptly to the answer to the question, unlike your colleagues, perhaps the remark is also to the leadership, because there are other ministers waiting for them for months on important issues. Let's get to the point. Information has been entered in the mass media, according to a decision of the European Commission, the Northern Speed Tango and other sections of the Sofia Crossroad will be completed at the expense of the Funds from the Programme Period 2014-2020, despite the delay of these projects last year and when they had to be completed. This information also makes it clear that the funds will be put into infrastructure that should already be ready instead of new transport projects that we expected to be implemented during the new programming period. From your written answer, which I have received today, I understand that you have successfully managed to remove this project from those who need to be financed by their own funds and the amount for those who remain is also not small. BGN, which is a pretty serious amount. However, I ask you to answer me: are there specific infrastructure projects planned to be built during the Programme period 2014 - 2020, precisely with these European funds, if I am not mistaken, in the amount of EUR 80 million, which will be dropped for the already stated reason, and if not, by which operational programmes, their axes will be redirected from the new programming period for the construction of such late sites, precisely those already cited? In no case is this something that we want to stop the construction of this important infrastructure site, but it is still important and what, and which regions will be affected by this change that has been agreed with the European Commission. I think that every region and every project is extremely important, not only the Crossroads of Sofia, for example, the Struma Highway and other roads to be built with European funds on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, if I have to give a one-syllable answer to your question, it is: no! I guess this answer won't be enough, so I'm going to introduce some conceptual explanation of what the so-called "fassion" is like as technology and why it doesn't lead to a loss of funds. We should bear in mind that the financial planning of any operational programme, as well as the occurrence of each object in time, is not subject to detailed planning, because ultimately, to a programming period by adding the additional opportunity to enjoy two or three years, according to the old or the new regulation, becomes one period of eight or nine years, where it is absolutely impossible to plan in which year which object will be completed, nor to plan its value, given all procedures relating to the establishment of property rights, and the value is finally determined, of course, by a procedure under the Public Procurement Act. If you want me to make a comparison to plan how much to the smallest detail objects to what value will be part of an operational program, it is you to predict by embroidering a tapestry, whether it is the Winter Chapel or the Last Dinner is how many meters of red, white or black thread you will walk.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u94	It's possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u95	That's possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u96	To this end, as a practice and the European Commission itself, first of all, the existence of specific projects or sites in the operational programme is avoided. If there is a list, it is in most cases indicative of the possibility to add or remove such objects. In addition, the old legislative package and the new package provides for the possibility of the so-called "fascing', i.e. a project which is not fully completed within the programming period, purely physically and financially to be transferred for implementation in the next programming period, and this option is used under various operational programmes, including the Operational Programme. This is by no means a defect and cannot be commented as such. This also does not lead to a loss of funding, because the alternative is, according to the commitments we have, according to European legislation, if the site is not completed with European funds, it will be completed with national funds. I do not foresee direct Impliation from the point of view of not providing funding for any specific project or object that is planned, as a result of the fact that one or another major project is phased out, transferred for completion from the Programme Period 2014-2020. Thank you for understanding colleagues from the European Commission, who in most cases of significant objects have allowed me a similar phase-out procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u98	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! That's a nice thing to say, but let me disagree with what you said. Obviously, this project is phased as well as others, which are of extremely high value in the water sector. It's a fact, and I don't know why you're downplaying it here and you're not saying it from the stands that these funds that come along the new programming period and will be redirected to objects that are phased from the previous programming period reduce the overall budget of the programme for new objects. What you're saying is that it's not possible to plan, it just doesn't answer the truth. I will just remind you of one fact: for example, the Road Infrastructure Agency had done this thing literally before the program started or at the beginning of the program, even made the relevant public procurement for sites that will be planned and implemented during this programming period. The mere withdrawal of funds for sites that are phased and redirecting them to phased projects naturally reduces the amount of funds that would be directed, for example, to the Operational Programme "Transport" or to the "Regions in growth" or to the "Environment." My question was really very specific: which operational programmes, which axes will reduce funds and will not be other sites that are extremely important for the settlements and for the regions in Bulgaria in order to complete those that should be completed in the first programming period? The whole situation with the end of the old and the beginning of the new programming period, obviously and according to your claims, is not clear and it is not quite clear even how the old programming period will end. If you wish, I will quote your reply, which says: "At this stage you cannot indicate the value of the costs that will be definitively claimed at the European Commission's request or the estimated final amount of the funds used. "This is a quote from you. When you come here, before the MPs, be more specific, because this thing really concerns, including not to say, "National security." These are extremely important objects. [[the President signals that time has run out]] which could be built and our request is to specify specifically in which sectors these funds will be reduced and cannot be implemented, and municipalities will be harmed, and also State Road Infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u100	Dear Mr. Ivanov, allow me to explain again. When we phase one project, we divide its physical performance between two programming periods between the old and the new. As a result, if there is residual funding within the old programming period, all managing authorities, the whole system, has taken all the necessary measures to make this residual funding go to finance other sites, so there is no money loss. Your specific question: is there a particular infrastructure object excluded from phase? I started my answer with no answer. As a result of phase-shifting, no money can be lost. We cover the same needs, the same municipalities, the same needs in terms of national road infrastructure or railway infrastructure. As for the list of final phased projects, I can provide you with a detailed tabular reference to those that are finally phased at the moment. Regarding the commentary on ambiguity under the old programming period. We are in the phase of the so-called closing phase, where not only on the basis of the decisions of the managing authorities in Bulgaria but also of other authorities, but also the decisions of the European Commission depend on the final parameters with which we will close the old programming period, both as a final amount of payments and which sites, in what part remain funded by the old, respectively the new programming period. I take the commitment that when this process is completed, he has at least a few more months to run, as has always been, the honourable National Assembly, you, as an MP, to be informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u101	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The next two questions are from the MP Georgi Todorov Bozhinov. The first question is about providing additional European funding for the Sofia Tech Park. Here you are, dear Mr. Bojinov, to present your first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! After the noisy and very solemn opening of the Sofia Tech Park there is now silence and management chaos. Used, as we like to say, were nearly 100 million European funds, and in the company, as you know, are imported assets worth hundreds of millions of levs. A number of sites for which the Minister of Economy assured us from this tribune that they would be completed have not been completed. A unique piece of equipment was delivered. A lot of wrong money has been spent on consultants, advertising and so on. Six months after the opening, the site didn't work, it was lost at the expense of the company's capital. I personally hope that the SANS, who is now in the territory of the company, will reach out to very specific perpetrators and will surely reach the patrons, however high they stand at the moment in the state hierarchy, but it needs money and my question is about money. If the company does not work self-sufficiently, the funding will continue to be provided as so far with European money and money from the Bulgarian taxpayers. I am aware that under the 2016 Indicative Programme of the Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" for the Sofia Tech Park, 52 million are envisaged. Eight million were transferred from the other programming period. However, to give you money, you have to justify it, prove it, know to ask for it and give it to you. My question is: Is the chaos in the management of Sofia Tech Park and if it is overcome, and if it is not true my impression that Bulgaria's high-tech park is beginning to look like run by low-tech clerical existence and state-owned company, how will this money be secured? Do you think this month it will be done whatever the condition is to get that money?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u103	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bozhinov, a purely linguistic remark: chaos and silence are usually mutually exclusive notions or there is total silence, or there is chaos as to how much chaos is usually loud.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u105	Not always.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u106	Not always. I don't know what your impressions are based on about the failing institution of Sofia Tech Park, the existence of chaos and silence, as you said earlier, but we need to make the following clarification. When we talk about a second European financing package, its objective is not to provide the institution with ongoing maintenance and could not be so for one simple reason: European funding finances infrastructure sites, as well as new policies, and not their prolonged funding for years. This is the purpose of the national budget or in the situation in question, a question of self-sustainability and self-reservation of the newly created institution. Here, however, the situation is different. The project itself is originally divided into two phases. The first phase of the project was financed by the old Operational Program "Development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy" and aimed to institutionalize Sofia Tech Park, to provide the main funds related to the building fund with the material base. The second phase of the project provides for the final construction of absolutely all sites, i.e. completion, including additional supplies of long-term and non-long-term tangible assets, as well as the full functioning of the park. One thing I agree with you is the big challenge ahead. After the material base that we all recognise is at a good level, I would like to inform you that in some of the laboratories we have equipped equipment that is unique not only in the Balkans, but even in Eastern Europe. The critical question is: how from now on all the equipment that is equipped, how to be loaded in the most adequate way? That is by no means an internal affairs matter. This is a matter of organisation with all other scientific and innovation units in the country. I would therefore like to inform you that, as early as the end of December last year, a research and development association was established on purpose, which is intended to manage the laboratory complex and the innovation forum. The association, as the name shows, is a non-profit organization operating in the public benefit, as members of the Association are Sofia Tech Park, the Ministry of Economy, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and associated members are Sofia University, Technical University, Medical University. I personally believe that it would be appropriate to add more scientific units to this purely institutional structure in order to make the best use of the equipment in question. As for the park itself, under the incubator unit there are already companies placed there, but this is a small part of the synergistic effect sought from now on. Insofar as good practices for managing such institutions, the key criterion is not the services that the administration and employees of the park provide in relation to the companies placed inside, but the synergy between the companies that are located inside, including among the more experienced and established international companies with the starting Bulgarian enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Your line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u108	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I'm not going to talk about the terminological side, but because there are no people there, it's a quiet and synergistic effect is achieved when there's an interaction. If the administration can't work and do its job, there aren't any elements that interact with each other and the synergistic effect. Firstly, there are very few attempts in Europe to make such high-tech parks. Unfortunately, only units have achieved the targets. It's not just our problem. We conceived it in a systematic sin for Bulgaria. The sin is that in order to achieve the goal first comes the absorption of funds and only then comes the real achievement of the goals and benefits for society and individual people. This project was launched by then Minister Rosen Plevneliev. The goal was, if you can achieve what is not at the moment, but necessarily not to let go of some golden construction sites, to master this 100 million. lv. and certain people to rule it. Plevneliev's people have been replaced. There's another team, it didn't change management chaos. Because this park could have been built on the territory and on the building fund of higher technical schools, which are currently idle, of the Institutes of BAS, which are empty. And on this territory, without spending on building this golden terrain the 100 million, in that interaction that is lacking in the territory of the remaining scientific community and potential, to go to what you are talking about and precisely define the essence of these parks. So this project bears the main mark of spending European funds in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Right to the doppelganger, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u110	Dear Mr. Bozhino, let me remind you that if anyone has opposed the use of the term "adventure" it is me. That's not a good term.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u111	We're together!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u112	He only refers to the absorption of money, not to the use. And it's important because it holds the benefits. One more clarification. Mr. Plevneliev neither in his role as Minister of Regional Development nor in his role as President had an institutional connection to this project. It is at least financed not by the Operational Program "Regional Development" but by the old Operational Program "Development of the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy." The fact that there was an emotional commitment to the park is quite another matter. I'm saying I agree with you. In order for such an institution to be successful, it can be successful not because it has built good buildings...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u113	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u114	...and not because there's a uniquely available lab equipment...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u115	And he's got connections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u116	The key to the effect of good work is to have a good institutional connection between business, especially start-ups, between business and especially established technology companies, between the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, among the leading universities, among the innovators, among the inventors. The base was created. We have all the infrastructure prerequisites. From now on, a question of adequate quality management of the park and related institutions is the achievement of all the objectives that we comment on. Thank you for your interest in Sofia Tech Park. Both you and I will pay particular attention to everything that's going on. Speaking of management there, we're not talking about a routine management commitment to pay the bills in time, to keep it clean, to have the lights turned on or to keep the lights on. There we are talking at concept level, we are talking about following high goals and I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Economy and the current team that is leading the Sofia Tech Park will be at the necessary level.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Second issue of the National Representative Georgi Bojinov is about providing funds for European financing of the last phase of the integrated waste management project in Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one sentence. I agree with you that the management of the Tech Park is a high-tech and scientific task, and there must be people who know which people know and can do more than they do in order to gather them on this field. So much for that. The second one, however, I have arranged it to the first one, because in the separate one, the common one with which I completed the previous conclusions. With European funds was built a factory for processing solid municipal waste in Sofia and this is one of the largest European-funded sites in Bulgaria with the history of about 400 million. lv. The factory produces... I will call it...... which must be disposed of by burning in a special installation, which is also the subsequent phase of the integrated project. Until the construction of the combustion plant, the user, as I call it, is transported very long distances and is disposed of against a payment that costs a lot of money. According to official information by Sofia Municipality, the new combustion plant will start at the earliest in three years and needs another 300 million. lv. And it is reported that the preparation of the form with which we will apply for European funds will be made at the end of this year. In my opinion, there is no reasonable explanation for this defamation of the two stages in the construction of the integrated system. There's no reasonable explanation. My question is: what does the application for European funds itself have to be postponed to the end of the year? The answer, Mr. Minister, if you allow me to add one sentence to what I have written, requires from the people who have helped you to do so, high professionalism and great courage, because there is no explanation, but there is a difficult solution for which we need to recognise today in order not to lose any more.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u119	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojinov, I don't understand the last line. What are we losing and what are we continuing to lose? I must remind you that despite all where critical, where apocalyptic comments, in the end the so-called Sofia Garbage Factory works. This is a global facility, and I think that everyone, including you, should be glad that the project managed to happen despite all the great difficulties we faced during the realization. I just want to point out that we are not talking about routine investments, about building a normal transport or water facility. We are talking about investments of such a degree of technological complexity, which in Bulgaria previously did not happen. One more clarification. The so-called RDF fuel, which is obtained as a product from the operation of the waste plant, must not be destroyed. It should be used in appropriate economic and technological scenarios in so far as there is a certain calorific value. Indeed, you are right, according to the indicative programme the project had to be added at the end of 2015. The point is that all institutions involved here I am no longer talking about is the team of Sofia Municipality and the Ministry of Environment and Water, I am also talking about Jaspers and the European Investment Bank, have a number of important and complex tasks to do. I'm going to allow myself to be very specific here. According to information from the Ministry of Environment and Water, the following activities have been implemented under the project at present: selection of a consultant for technical assistance, preparation of a project for the facility; setting a site for its construction; selection of technology. An environmental impact assessment decision has been issued, an indicative application form has been completed. An analysis of the applicable State aid legislation is to be drawn up by the experts from Jaspers. From there we rely on first-class expertise, updated cost-benefit analysis, as well as to update and update the documents drawn up under the project in accordance with the notes and comments received by the experts from In this regard, the following activities are carried out in Sofia Municipality: a team of "Jaspers" carried out a detailed analysis on the existence of State aid. I suppose you know, as interested in this matter, in this programming period the Commission is extremely careful, watching for any form of State aid. If we have challenges, they are related not only to technology, but also to a purely economic scenario. As far as the case exists or is not available for unlawful State aid must be cleared to the smallest level of detail, I pay attention, which is also irrelevant that we are talking about a project that will generate revenue, which further complicates financial analysis. And the European Investment Bank, I stress, at its own expense, has commissioned a consultant to update the feasibility study and prepare an analysis of costs and benefits, financial analysis, application form and tender documents, everything that should happen by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u121	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u122	Dear Mr. Vice-President! First for the joy. I must have enjoyed many times for which I did not have enough reason, but I am the person who, as a member of the Board of Directors of the Nuclear Power Plant, was admitted to the reactors, but when I went with all my parliamentary legitimization, I was not admitted to the plant and technology. The explanation was that I knew too much. And I do know a little bit. What's the question? The point is that methodologically it has been misinterpreted in the request, the absorption of this money and the construction of a project. There is talk of stages, and these are elements of the integrated system. When one stage is made for 400 million and produces a product that needs to be disposed of and paid for it... Its burning is paid to those installations that can burn it under complex permits. The ride of these sites was the reason for a new application form, for which we paid another 5 million. EUR, but the question is these three years, while the next stage is being done, who and why should pay? And here I'm going to give you an example of different thinking. Europe is talking about a circular economy. The circular economy is invented and applied because more than 50% of the raw materials in the course of production are converted into... both after the consumption of the product and in the course of production. Therefore, new thinking is immediately in the course of production as part of the raw material is removed, to start a new round of production. This makes it the richest countries, and we make it close to 1 billion infrastructure waste management systems and by producing intermediate waste for 400 million installations, three years will wait for another. There, there's no explanation! And now, what I've told you is the bold answer. Mrs. Fandakova went to Vienna...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u123	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u124	I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. ...and saw an installation 45 years ago burning directly from the containers without an intermediate processing plant. However, there money that pays for separate collection is used, there is no hazardous waste and burn without RDF fuel. The last sentence is about courage. In these three years technology will advance and we can make such an installation that burns it, but this 400 million factory will remain redundant and someone must have the courage to ask for money for such a technological solution, only he has to admit that the 400 million went to waste.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u125	Mr. Bozhinov, you're running out of time by one minute!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u126	It's a billion dollars.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u127	I understand that, but there are rules, my kindness is not limitless, and I ask you to comply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u128	I'll take it. I'm looking for the solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u129	Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u130	I find it difficult to pay attention to all the nuances Mr. Bojinov mentioned. I don't know why you're not allowed into the plant's territory. It's hard for me to answer that question, as long as I've never performed the functions of head of security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u131	Oh, no! I had to ask the mayor. Not the head of security, but the mayor had to ask.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u132	But I find the inability to visit a similar facility strange if the objective was, of course, well-intentioned to get acquainted with what is happening there. As for the comment that technology is outdated, I wish you to buy a new car, but keep in mind that from the moment you buy it, it begins to age both morally and technologically and physically. It's very common in technology. Beyond the details, if you are willing, I suggest that together we organize a seminar where to make a critical review of all technologies for the use of waste...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u133	It was yesterday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u134	...conventional, non-conventional, burning-related, much more complex technologies that are applied at the Sofia Waste Factory, considering that beyond the political debate any possible option, any possible solution has passed long analyses and experts from the leading experts in Europe and any such solution, apart from the approval of the managing authority in the Ministry of Environment and Water is past the approval of the European Commission. She, believe me, given the value of the project was particularly critical, especially careful of everything that is planned and implemented. As for your desire for everything to happen at the same time, I have the same desire. Unfortunately, this is not always possible, mainly due to the lack of sufficient cash resources. And here the short answer is: "It would be good to have everything implemented once in the old Operational Program "Environment. " The important question here is whether the Operational Programme could allocate a similar resource at once. The answer is: "No! "
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u135	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister this was the last question in today's parliamentary control that you had to answer. We move on to answers to current questions to the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov. [[BSP LB.]] Mr. Dubov, Mr. Kenov! I've just been informed that the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev is on his way, he's going to be late. For this reason here is the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, he will start to answer. As soon as Mr. Nenchev enters the Chamber, you will have the opportunity to ask your question. The first question to the Minister of Culture Mr. Vejdi Rashidov is from the MP Slavi Binev concerning financial problems of state cultural institutions. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Cultural institutes face serious financial problems. The Ministry of Culture has come up with a proposal to cover the spending of funds allowed to institutes to improve their situation. The question of the reasons which led to the deterioration of the financial situation of the cultural institutes and the effectiveness of the theatre management comes to the fore. Is the situation so bad as to require urgent financial stabilisation, Mr. Minister? There has been a change in the state policy regarding cultural institutes because it has not produced the necessary results so far. It is unacceptable to tolerate sloppy and incompetent management of institutes when the situation in the field of culture is sufficiently complicated. Measures must be taken to increase their income and ensure their cultural activities. My question: what is your opinion on the financial problems of cultural institutes, what will the Ministry take to prevent such problems in the future and to improve the situation of state cultural institutes?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u137	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Come in for an answer, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u138	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Binev, against the background of the tendency to improve the state of the organizations from the performing arts in recent years in several cultural institutes the problems are heavier as a result of the lower attendance of viewers in the region due to the heavier socio-economic conditions in recent years and as a result of poor management of the creative process. The project of the performances and the visitors, respectively the revenue gained from the tickets of the State Folklore Ensemble "Philip Kutev", State Musical Ballet Center "Sofia," the theatres in Blagoevgrad, Kardzhali, Smolyan, Vratsa, opera in Stara Zagora, Musical and Drama Theatre "Veliko Tarnovo," is insufficient for their normal functioning. As a result of all this, their monthly limits do not allow for the timely provision of funds to be paid even to the salaries of those working therein. It is necessary to reiterate that in 2014, control and financial discipline in theatres were significantly reduced, as a result of which some organisations allowed significant excess revenue costs, which, in the context of delegated budgets, had a negative impact on the financial situation of these structures in 2015. Taking into account the importance of these cultural institutes for national culture and art, as well as for the relevant regions, the Ministry is looking for ways to overcome the problems encountered while maintaining their status. The Transitional and Final Provisions of Decree No 31 of 12 February 2016 of the Council of Ministers on the promotion of uniform costs and standards for the financing of state cultural institutes for the implementation of activities in the field of performing arts are set out specific measures to address the existing deficit in some organisations: strengthening their administrative and creative capacity, carrying out continuous monitoring of their creative and financial activities. The directors of the organisations that made payments exceeding receipts at the end of 2015 should submit a financial stabilisation programme for approval in the Ministry of Culture. A committee of experts and employees of the Ministry, appointed by order of the Minister of Culture, will currently carry out an analysis of the prepared programme and its implementation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u140	I understand, Mr. Secretary. They are capable of insulting when they are prejudiced, but they are incompetent to deal with the problems they have to deal with. The most interesting thing is that there were no people to stand up and tell them that it's better to really mind their own business so they could be proud of it, not try on other people's shoulders. Everyone, however, pays for their mistakes on their own. Where are the people with the position to come and say that they will deal with these problems? Where are they now?! They're gone! Or they could say, "There's the problem with management, or wherever, to point it out, to say, "Here's the problem. There is no money because we are incompetent or, for example, because management is incompetent or does not give us such opportunities. I thought about not asking cultural questions, but in my role as a tribune, I'm obliged to even ask questions I didn't intend to ask. Regarding my second question, which you postponed for next week, I could not understand why you postponed it. It was listed as an opportunity to be set. I don't think it takes a week for a minister to answer questions that should be answered over the phone. I guess there's a problem that you found out after I asked the question? There are really serious problems there. I advise you, when I put my finger in the wound, to pay attention. Do not approach, as Minister Moskovski, to whom I pointed the problem, asked a question, he answered solemnly that there were no problems and then had to give it on TV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u141	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you are, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Binev, I had two questions. Yes, one year at the time of Mr. Oresharski's rule, however acquittal, has been missed control over them. Until then, the methodology is working. A deficit has been created, and I'll explain it. "Deficit" means lack of audience, and theater, art, when you don't have an audience, doesn't need to exist. That's right, you're 100% right here when you say it's nonsense. A situation has been created for such futility. I wouldn't call my colleagues a loser. Lack of control would make bad management for anyone who has no control over it. The truth is, you can't have half a million expenses here, you're right, and you're right, and you're entitled to 20 grand. lv. As a businessman, you know that such a thing is a matter of fact. What we've done is tighten control. However, we have decided not to punish people who are talented. The theatres exist for years, we have no right with the axe to destroy them, but rather we tightened control and decided to give them a chance. We found a form to simplify some money. We simplified the theater's deficit to 3 million. lv. At the moment, I can guarantee you that they have moved, developed. I deeply hope that, as serious professionals, they will not be exposed until the end of the year. I'm just gonna fill in the blanks. In my talentless management in two mandates when I was a minister the first term, 80% of the theaters were with unpaid current and steam bill. I have documents for this, if you wish, I will give them to you, unpaid salaries. Today is the seventh year, such a theater does not exist! The budget for Bulgarian theatres was 48 million and today is 70 million. BGN, Mr. Binev. If this is a bad attitude towards Bulgarian culture, I am guilty, I take all the blame. [[General applause from GERB.]] On your second question, I do not intend to neglect your questions. They're not stupid, they're serious, put in place. There's one reason I have to tell the other colleagues to know it. It's not disrespectful to you. I've been suffering from something that I need to spare my voice for a while. My voice often falls, especially in the seventh, eighth question. It's better for next week so I can answer you seriously and thoroughly, because it's a serious matter. With all due respect, I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u143	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The time for the doppelganger is up. Moreover, you have taken advantage of the rules of our Rules. We move on to a question from MP Willy Lilkov about the ancient street to the Western gate of ancient Serdika, which has been turned into a parking lot. Here you go, Professor. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u144	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Dear Mr. Rashidov, fellow Members of the National Assembly! My question is related to the fate of the ancient street opened in Sofia during the construction of the Serdika Metro Station the first stage of the construction of the subway. An ancient street was then discovered parallel to the main street of ancient Serdika, which leads orientedly from St. Petka Samardzhiyska in the direction of Bulbank. The medieval church is located there. It was then decided that the entire archaeology would be preserved and it was properly packed and to this day more than 17 years is stored in a warehouse of the Metropolitan. It was decided that this archaeology would be returned when the second stage of the construction of the subway was completed and archaeology was exposed in the center of Sofia. These 1000 square meters, which represents the ancient street, have become a parking lot, which has been operated and rented out by Sofia Municipality. My question to you, Minister, is this: what will be the fate of the ancient street? What's her condition right now? What do you intend to do to get back there archaeology and to make the connection with the medieval church of St. Spass, in particular with the Western gate of Serdica. This is a unique wealth for Sofia. I remember very well that an attempt was made at the Municipal Council to sell these 1000 square meters as part of the parking lot. This terribly scandalous deal has been thwarted. Now my question is: what is the fate of the street right now? What are the Ministry's intentions regarding the ancient street? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u145	For an answer, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u146	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lilkov! The historical-archeological reserve.. Antique Serdika. and the medieval Sredets cover the central historical core of Sofia. The districts of the ancient and medieval town are within the streets of the town of Alabin and Legge................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to State Property Act No 31 of 17 March 1997, the reserve is managed and managed by the Sofia Municipality. Given that the management and management rights have been granted to Sofia Municipality, the Ministry of Culture cannot act in the archaeological reserve. The Ministry of Culture has no information on future projects to expose the ancient street. Sofia Municipality is a beneficiary of the project "Antical history of Sofia." Cultural and historical heritage available to all. Under the Program BG 08 "Cultural Heritage and Contemporary Arts" the project envisages conservation activities, restoration, exposition and building of the Western gate, Basilica "St. Sofia" and the triangular tower of Serdika. The value of the project is close to 1 million. 200,000. lv. With all due respect, I could not give you a final answer to what could be done except to give prescriptions that we cannot legally do. The question must be asked to the owner of the Sofia Municipality. I suppose that very soon, they are very responsible and committed to everything that concerns Sofia's history, they will take measures. If it were the Ministry, we would probably have applied at any cost for European projects so that we could carry it out by now. Let's hope everything's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u147	For the line.. prof. Lilkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u148	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Dear Minister, I am determinedly dissatisfied with the answer you gave me. I firmly state that I am absolutely certain that the Ministry knows what this is about. It is impossible for you to carry out a project on the West Gate and not to include the antique street that is 50 meters from the West Gate! That's off! Your experts know very well. I will also ask the mayor of Sofia because the reserve you are talking about is not just a national monument of culture. It is more than that: it is a reserve, it is the core of Sofia! The Ministry knows what is the state of every square inch of it and what are the prospects for its development. If your experts who did the answer were well-intentioned and didn't want to hide something, they would have given a completely different answer. I repeat: I know the historical core of Sophia on her fingertips. I am the importer of the decision taken by the Municipal Council to prepare the historic center of Sofia for applying for a world cultural heritage before UNESCO. The chaos that Sofia Municipality has imposed in the work on the historical core leads to the result as your answer is. I'm extremely dissatisfied. I'll ask the mayor of Sofia the same question. I will also ask a second question to which I will request a written answer from your experts. It's not your fault. I know your good attitude and your desire to work on these topics, but the sloppyness of the clerks and the attempt to criminally sell this street eight years ago, makes me think that things are wrong there, and that's why I'm going to keep asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u149	Professor Lilkov, you've joined us in exactly two minutes. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Lilkov, you obviously did not understand what I tried to say to you that there is still a division of authorities in Bulgaria. I make a difference between municipal and state property, so I told you that we, as the Ministry of Culture, are not the owners of the site. It is a good question to ask the owner. I can't tell you what kind of kitchen and where he makes his neighbors when he's not in my house. In this regard, I do not feel any guilt and my experts do not believe to be slobs. We can give you an answer. It's foreign property. Let's not forget that we were municipal councilors with you: when they sold the Halls to......................the Eastern Gate of Serdica opened. Not only did we not take out archeology, we buried it with gravel for better times. As long as I am a minister, in my Ministry, I say my own because I am responsible for my activities, I would not allow any archeology to be buried. Now he'd be passing a subway. There wouldn't be a Largo. Today it's a wonderful object, it's all of us, of course, not mine. I'm proud it happened, it happened, it worked, we did it. Don't doubt it, you have no doubt, I know you are well-intentioned. There's no object that I'm responsible for, that I have the power to do, and that we don't protect it, that we don't do it, that I don't want to do it. Unfortunately, the subject is not ours. I'm not saying it's bad that it's not ours, but there's an old Sofia, you know, a whole department. Okay, well, there's probably a question out there, and we're gonna be doing control as an institution that protects the monuments. We'll give a prescription, we'll do whatever it takes. There's no problem on our part. I'm ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u151	Thank you, Minister Rashidov. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova about the financing of extra-capital and dramatic-dollar theatres in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Kostadinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Order No 31 of 12 February 2016 establishes uniform cost standards for funding this year of state cultural institutes carrying out performance activities. Article 1 of this Order establishes a single cost standard for dramatic and dramatic puppet theaters...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... for 1 leva. revenue. The funds under art. 1 shall be determined on the basis of the actual revenue from the sale of tickets for the relevant quarter. This, however, places dramatic-dollar theaters at a disadvantage, as they also form revenue on the basis of sold tickets to children's theaters, which traditionally have a lower price than those for adults, which is clearly reported in the Decree in view that puppet theaters receive 3 BGN. I'll take care of it. The financing of theatres is also reduced when a theater is provincial. As a MP from Pazardzhiski, I can give an example with the Dramatic and Puppet Theatre "Constantin Velichkov" in Pazardzhik, which in the same number of tickets sold compared to one of the theatres in Sofia received 180 thousand. lv. less. One reason is the lower price of tickets and the other is cheaper tickets for the puppet theater. Following the introduction of a change in the way of financing in the market theater, the state numbers have been reduced by 9. This is the only professional theatre in the field and is extremely valuable to the local community. My question is: will the Ministry of Culture find a way to compensate for extra-capital, and dramatic-dollar, theaters in the current formula, which seems to be sufficiently fair to them?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Kostadinova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman! Ms. Kostadinova, in relation to your question, I will inform you of the following. In the system of the Ministry of Culture activities in the field of performing arts 51 organizations, secondary officers with a budget. Since 2011, they have implemented the delegated budget system, which has led to a greater variety of products offered, an increase in the number of viewers, the amount of the state subsidy, as well as the ticket revenue. In applying the delegated budget system, as well as the previous funding model based on the provision of funds based on regulated numbers, staff costs do not have the possibility to take into account the specifics of each individual institute. The new method of calculating the subsidies due on the basis of the actual revenue generated from the sale of tickets has overcome some of the identified weaknesses in the financing of state cultural institutes in performing arts. Conditions were created for full transparency in determining the amount of subsidy and timely control over the activities and financial performance of the institutions. Specific, clear rules have been drawn up to eliminate involuntary gaps. The model for determining the subsidy amount under the new standards is subject to continuous monitoring and control. As a result of the analysis of the activities of the dramatic-dollar and stage institutes, the fact that they produce performances for both dramatic and puppet theaters was taken into account. This requires a different professional approach both in terms of genre, realization and funding and in terms of viewers. For this reason, in order to effectively use the stage spaces with the relevant activities, a change of funding is required by validating different standards for various creative activities, which will meet the specifics of the relevant types of performing arts and allow for high artistic and genre diversity. In this context, the Ministry of Culture prepared a Draft Decree amending and supplementing Decree No 31 of 12 February 2016 of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of uniform cost standards for funding of state cultural institutes carrying out performance activities in the field of performing arts, which is in the interdepartmental coordination procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Kostadinova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u156	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I just wanted to clarify that I had the opportunity to meet and talk personally with the management of the theatre in Pazardzhik. In addition, the entire composition of the theatre came out publicly with a declaration demanding a rethink of the so-called "Reform in the field of performing arts." According to them, so far it is only a re-change of the funding methodology of state cultural institutions, which leads only to their debt. Pazardzhik theatres call for open, thorough and expertly justified dialogue with the Ministry of Culture on the fate of the state-owned theatre network. In this regard, I would like to ask you whether it is necessary to reconsider and discuss again between the Ministry of Culture and even the Committee on Culture in the National Assembly this reform, in fact, to better affect the sphere.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u157	Thank you. For the coat, please, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u158	Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague! There is a saying: "What a man has done to himself, no one can do to him. " In just a few words I will tell you what we did for the Bulgarian theatres and if this goes on like this, let's whimper about every lev, and they are not the Ministry of Culture, but the Bulgarian taxpayer, that is to say to you! We got them out of a situation when you were paying the budget. We've calculated that there's a show and a half per month in 30 days. The budget was running out until August. People would say, "There's a tide of audiences and they'd close their jars. The theaters are working today. We've changed our mindset, yes. A living organism. It is not ready reform, the reform will be for the rest of life, but the methodology has changed. They went to the market. Meaning what? On every lev taken out of the Bulgarian theatre and opera, the state pays between 3 and 6 leva. Where's that? The ticket revenues remain in theaters, the money from municipalities, the aids, remain in theaters, the sponsor money in theaters. Change what more? The other option is to go back to the budget, as it was, because I have said: if my colleagues are unhappy with a movement to be on the market and really, to be professionals and to get our bread out of our labor and not just from giving to the state, the state should not abdicate. Of course, she doesn't abdicate. Who gives me on BGN 1 as a sculptor? brought by sculpture 6 leva. On top? Here's a question. Answer me this question. And I'm very talented! And there are those in the Union of Artists over 3,000. Please, let's get it together! Discipline! To have an audience, each audience will bring a ticket, and each lev will bring 3 leva. from our country subsidy from above. Or else?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a next question and he is from the National Representative Metodi Andreev on the procedure for the announced by the Minister of Culture competition for Director of the National Library. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. Mr. Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u160	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! The question I put and my attention was drawn to it, was from publications in Bulgarian electronic media. We are talking about a competition which was announced by the Ministry of Culture as Director of the National Library. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius. There were three candidates who had both been removed because one had no proper education, five years and management work, and the other because he had no management experience. In any case, however, one of the candidates, and she was an associate professor with a scientific education degree, a doctor, was a 15-year head of the Department of Arts and Old-print Books. I will not describe to how many international councils and international organizations she is a member, what publications she has, she has in any case responded to both criteria and education, and management experience. The second extremely questionable fact that gives the impression is that the woman admitted to the competition has only one undisputed advantage over the one that has been removed, namely that her candidacy and work are from UniBIT (University of Library Knowledge and Information Technologies), and the President of the competition jury was also from the higher education institution in question. This, Mr. Minister, very, very smells of conflict of interest, especially by comparing the scientific and professional qualities of the suspended candidate and that admitted to a competition. Moreover, it is ridiculous not to say scandalously that the new director of this national institution should be elected through a competition for which there is already some public mood that is not done properly. I'm sure the Ministry's experts say the law is formally respected, and I'm sure it is. But the law was also respected in the public procurements suspended by the Prime Minister. Let me remind you that the main argument for their annulment was only the doubt in society that the procedures were compromised. The situation with this contest, unfortunately, is the same. Our society has a particular sensitivity to the ambitions of some emblematic footage from the so-called Plovdiv Institute. Therefore, Mr. Minister, with the best sense and enough criticalness, I ask you the following questions. Firstly, do you think it appropriate for the Director of the National Library to be elected through a procedure where there is no real competition of concepts and where the choice will be made in a factual absence of real competition? And the second question: don't you think that in the situation that has been created and in the current doubts about the impartiality of the decisions of the competition jury, it is right to stop the competition, as the Prime Minister did, as Mrs. Fandakova did with the Sofia City Library?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u161	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u162	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Andreev, with all due respect, of course, you are my weakness and my friend, but seriously. I've been meaning to read it to you, but I'm a little ready to answer, because just half an hour ago a lady came by who wants to be the director of the Philharmonic, spit it all out and said that this should be the committee, who should be elected and how they should be elected because she says they're the most talented. This problem will be everywhere. I just have to assure you that I follow the rules that exist, Mr. Andreev, so... I have one flaw: I make an incredible effort to comply with the rules and laws of the Bulgarian state, because for about two years I was investigated to find fault. Finally, the audit came with the following assessment that the only ministry winner is the Ministry of Culture and some municipalities. Thanks for the evaluation, but to walk another year... Yeah, there's a rule book I'll follow. To do things as you say, surely... For example, I will tell you: there is a former minister who I think is a responsible person, and I value him infinitely, and I will not mention his name, who applied for the contest. I think he's very well-done and was a good minister of enlightenment. Unfortunately, the rules are so created that we cannot respond to what is a job. Secondly, of course, as a minister, I will never stand against the decision of ten experts in a single committee in a democratic society. Why, then, do we choose the democratic way of an expert? Third, in order to appoint them, we need to change the law. I don't mind. All I can do is go get a book to read. I have no intention of working at the Library. For me, it is important for the Library to function as a national institute, good to manage it, there are 200, 300 people who work there, although we digitized the 100% People's Library. Drama is not who will be the director, it is how to manage this heavy large institution. I also agree with you, but all I do at this point is follow the laws and regulations. If we change them, I'm ready. I don't have any personal interests. And whether it's from GamBIT, MAMBIT, wherever it is, at least from some library place, anyway, read books, figure out how to work books.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u164	Mr. Minister, I believe that in any case what you say is true because in my question, I also suggest that the experts will say that. But look what you've got! It is obtained so that for the National Library "St. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius to the essential part of the competition where they have to imagine the concepts, we will actually only have one racehorse, one concept. We're kind of defunct about the meaning of the contest then. In this case, speaking of the suspended candidate, I say that she was a woman of exceptional professional qualities and not in vain in a letter that must have come to you, Dr. Elena Yanakieva and Dr. Tsvetoljub Nushev say: "The Director of the National Library must be a person of excellence, worthy and recognizable in Bulgaria and abroad, a person with a mission and high goals. The issue is quite controversial with the accepted application, because I can tell you this: it has become an assistant at UniBID, without being chief assistant. The law allows this, should have two years of teaching experience, becomes an associate literally days before the deadline for the competition ends. So, what I read, she certainly doesn't have the qualifications that the suspended candidate has. You are of that opinion, too, and I fully respect your position to protect your experts, but I think you need to think about it a little more.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. For the doppelganger, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u166	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Andreev, with respect, I'll turn to everyone again. Look, I'm going to give you an example. I'm a person who left the Academy when I was teaching just before they made me an associate professor and just two years ago I wrote an open letter that I didn't want to be offered as an academic and comment on my name as a Bulgarian academic. I must not have grown up and I'm very young. It is possible that I have no respect or respect for these titles and titles, and I am interested in the person's personality. However, one thing I wanted to answer is that I will check because I take your question very seriously. Of course, it is important the institution of the People's Library. That's what's important! I'll see what the situation is exactly, and if there's any doubt, I guarantee you from this bank, I'll cancel this contest. We'll announce one where more candidates appear to choose the best. I don't respect titles! I myself have academic titles: Doctor Honoris Causa, Member of the Bulgarian Academy, as you can see, they call me the Eyebrow. Thank you. The most important thing is not to call Picasso Professor! [[Radio, applause]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. We move on to the last question provided in today's parliamentary control, to which the Minister of Culture will answer, and he is from the MP Petar Slavov about connecting through an underground street in Eastern with the Western gate of the fortress Serdika. Mr. Slavov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I think it's a very interesting question. Listening to the parliamentary control so far, Mr. Minister, I have just heard from colleague Willy Lilkov a similar question, which I think I will very much complement, although we have asked them quite independently and I think it shows how many people are really excited about this topic and how many people have practically written to us both with colleague Lilkov to ask such similar questions. I think you have repeatedly stated, Mr Minister, that really, so to speak, your heart belongs to this Largo restoration project and you really have the desire to do something unique there, something beautiful, something to stay for generations and something to preserve this unique cultural and historical heritage of the city of Sofia. My question really concerns the possibility of connecting through an underground street in the East with the West Gate of Serdika Fortress. Dear Minister, the capital Largo was inaugurated on April 20th after the restoration and exhibition of archaeological finds by the fortress Serdika, revealed during the construction of the subway. The discovered findings were connected through an underground street with another part of the fortress Serdika, its Eastern gate and the exposed parts of it in the underpass before the Presidency. At the moment, according to an earlier reply received by you, I learned that a project for restoration of the Western gate of the ancient fortress Serdika is being worked on, providing restoration, conservation, exposition and building of archeological park. In this regard, Dear Minister, please answer the following question: is there an opportunity and is there intended connection through an underground street of the Eastern Gate and the newly discovered Largo with the Western Gate and the intended archeological park of the fortress of Serdika and if this is not embedded in the implemented project, is it possible to complement it and thus give access and complete appearance to the unique cultural values in the center of Sofia with the discovery of which our capital becomes a unique center of ancient art, culture and architecture? And here I would simply add what I heard about the answer and the question of colleague Lilkov: is it not exactly this antique street that he was talking about, this unique opportunity that actually exists and just needs to be realized? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u170	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Slavov, regarding your question about the possibility of connecting through an underground street of the Eastern Gate and the newly discovered site of the Antique Cultural and Communication Complex. The boundaries of the territory, the scope of archaeological revelations, are defined visually by the surrounding buildings, and invisiblely by the conducts of underground infrastructure facilities with national, urban and local use. The project "An antique cultural-communication complex" "Serdika" could appear a localized part of the future expansion of the archaeological revelations in the southern direction "to the square "St. Sunday, and in the western direction to the Western gate of the ancient city. Thus, a new, significant area will be added to the center of Sofia with a marked historically attractive character. The city centre will acquire a new image and will show a modern attitude towards rich historical coats and the memory of the city. There is no project for the future expansion of the implemented project "Antical cultural-communication complex" in the Directorate of European Programs and Projects. Opportunities for financing the design of such an investment project will be sought in Operational Program "Regions in Growth," 2014 The priority axis is sustainable integrated urban development and the Operational Program "Regions in Growth," 2014-2020. The eligible beneficiaries are municipalities, religious communities and the Ministry of Culture. Tourist organizations can participate as partners. In view of the potential to generate revenue and the opportunities for return on investment, funding is planned through financial instruments to stimulate the public-private partnership in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line, please, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, from what I hear from you, as I understand it, funds can be found under European solidarity for the realization of such a project. And it seems to me that there is indeed such an opportunity and it can be realized by connecting in the way that I asked the question, to connect the already restored Largo respectively with the Eastern and Western Gate of the fortress Serdika, that is, to give a really complete look to this unique architectural reserve, which is located in the center of Sofia. Here my appeal to you and what I have succeeded and with my colleague Lilkov to exchange as our intentions, we will ask you an additional question in this regard, regarding the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, whether the really ancient street, for which he pointed out that it was revealed and for which information is described, respectively, and the National Institute has information, it should be included, that is, it should already exist as part of this underground reserve and be protected in this sense, and in fact what remains to be done is simply to provide the funds. As you mentioned, there is such an opportunity to use this ancient street to be connected respectively between the Largo and the Western Gate, this project, which, anyway, is already going with regard to the Western Gate and the display of the entire architectural ensemble that will be located there. I think it would be really unique if this thing could happen. I am convinced that you will do everything possible from the position you are taking to realise such a thing as far as possible. We will also do everything we can to help you within our powers, but I use to appeal to you, really............................................................................................... what exactly happens to this antique street,....................what........................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u173	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For the coat, Minister Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u174	Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Slavov! Just one second to clarify. Yeah, these are the possible funding locations. You know, whatever we want to do is connected to some funds, and we have to find them. That's true. Yes, of course, you're right, and I'll tell you why I suffered by saying the Largo. It was a difficult object, but fortunately there is no analogue in Europe except in Rome such a thing that happened in our country. Something good happened for Bulgaria because about a year and a half we do not manage European funds, we apply like all other candidates in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. We fought for European funds. We worked for two years. Archaeology was studied to the last degree. Then you know that for about two years, I don't know why it was wrapped in plastic and became a frogman. We're back in first grade again. After we got back, thank God, we saved some European money exactly like that. We were on the verge of losing them. Of course, everything you say is very interesting. Sofia will have no other similar city. It's a beautiful city! You should know that the project part is being carried out by the Metropolitan in the face of Sofia Municipality, so we talked to colleague Lilkov about the separation of authorities, as the archeological researches of the layers are taking place before Sheraton. It seems that I will not have enough life and mandate, but I will be the happiest person if Sofia is a unique center in itself, saturated with so much history and culture. I hope our kids will be proud of this thing, too, so we don't get away with it. We will do everything we can in these years, God forbid, if we work and manage, we will also need your support, of course, for these projects to take place and things to work, to be done. Nobody's against it. We'll all work together. I think this is for the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That concludes your involvement in parliamentary control. Have a good job, have a good day! We are going to answer current questions from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. The first question will be asked by the people representative Slavi Binev about exchange of experience and good practices in the field of electronic governance. Mr. Binev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The first session of the Bulgarian-Korean Intergovernmental Commission for Economic Cooperation was held recently, discussing options and ideas for stimulating scientific and technological cooperation between the two countries. The topic of electronic management was also affected during the talks. Isn't it time to act more actively towards exchanging experience with our Korean partners, who in recent years have managed to make remarkable progress in the development of their electronic governance? Electronic governance is a national priority, but its introduction dragged on a lot and huge funds sank into nowhere. Do you know where these funds have sunk? And basically, you know why electronic controls aren't in place? Because to a large extent it is the biggest brake against corruption. I don't know how to explain the Prime Minister's silence, who said that just to see that something was wrong, would react with lightning, whether against his own or against strangers?! If he is really concerned about this, he should react lightningally through your removal. What will the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications about exchange of experience in the field of e-government, especially with regard to developed countries such as the Republic of Korea, and finally Bulgaria having electronic governance?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Binev, the issues of e-government are part of the subject of discussions about exchange of experience at all bilateral meetings between representatives of the Ministry and organizations from other countries. More intensive contacts and exchanges of experience on e-government issues are carried out with the following countries: Estonia's relations with Estonia on exchange of experience and good practices date back to 2008. During the official visit of the then Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister, Borisov, in Estonia in September 2011, an agreement was reached to visit a team of high-ranking Estonian experts from the state and business in the field of e-government, which took place in Sofia between 28 and 30 November 2011. As a result a visit by Estonian colleagues was prepared a document containing an overall assessment of the state of e-government in Bulgaria, as well as proposals for three projects: Electronic services for the citizens of the trade register. As a result of the talks held at expert level on 11 April 2011, an Agreement was signed between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federal Chancellorship of the Republic of Austria on cooperation in the field of information and communication technologies and electronic government. The issues covered by cooperation are: information and communication technologies in the public sector and e-government; information security and protection of information and communication tools; electronic signature; standards and policies of electronic management; integrated national data centres; management; information resources, etc. Meetings at expert level shall continue and be held regularly. Germany at the initiative of the Ministry during the session of the Bulgarian-German Cooperation Council to the Council on 12 October 2015, a new working group was set up to study the German experience in this field. The Republic of Korea is developing actively the bilateral relations between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Korea in the field of information technology since 2000. In 2006 during the official visit of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea was decided to establish a Bulgarian-Korean Cooperation Committee on Information Technology and Communications. One of the directions in the work of this Committee is the exchange of experience and good practices. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and the proper functioning of the internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u179	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u180	Mr. Minister, I asked this question a year ago and the answer was almost the same historically sustained, but as a practice zero, as decisions nothing! People don't care what the story was, what was done and so on. They care when it gets there. And this result is not only when it will be, but really to be what people expect to do specifically business. A lot of money has been spent so far and the result is zero. In the history of e-government in Bulgaria, the Bulgarians will probably write you an excellent six. I think it is high time for this matter to be acted upon and spoken, and work has been done since His Majesty's time, to be resolved. My advice is also to the Prime Minister, of course, through you: to do everything possible to put an end to this, because now the doubts that the possibility of electronic governance is being hindered are not random.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u181	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Here you go, Mr. Moskovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u182	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Binev, I firmly assure you that we are making maximum efforts to introduce electronic control and in no way stop this process. As you know, a new Law establishing a State Agency for the Council of Ministers is up to date, so there will be more concentrated and more specialized activities of the state in introducing e-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u183	The Presidency makes reference to the presence of the MP Boris Yachev in the Chamber. He is already here, so we are going to answer a question that will be developed by Mr. Yachev about the future of the company Mr. Yachev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, at the end of 2012, the Law repealed the Law on the Conversion of Construction Forces, the Forces of the Ministry of Transport and the Forces of the Post and Telecommunications Committee in State Enterprises. With the annulment of this Law, it was granted a period of one year for former state-owned enterprises to be converted into commercial companies. In the following years, the Ministry of Transport has virtually refused to turn state-owned enterprises into transport works and reconstructions. In 2014, a Public Discussion Project was published for the annulment of the Law, which repealed the Law on the Conversion of Construction Forces, the Forces of the Ministry of Transport and the Forces of the Post and Telecommunications Committee in State Enterprises. That is, the idea of the Ministry is for them to regain the status of state enterprises. It becomes clear from the Project that there is an idea that these enterprises will continue to carry out rescue and emergency missions, and the main argument for this is the increasingly frequent disasters and the need for timely prevention and maintenance of a functioning secured disaster rescue system. At the same time, the inclusion of these undertakings in commercial activities of the State does not allow them to maintain viable and sustainable functions and to be in a satisfactory financial situation. The position of the finance minister is that funds cannot be provided in the state budget for the activities of non-State-owned enterprises. For these reasons, in the different departments of the two enterprises employees receive their salary with a few months' delay and some of the employees are still not aware of what the future of their jobs will be. Dear Minister, in view of the above, my question to you is as follows: what policy will the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications follow with regard to the former state-owned enterprises
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u185	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Yachev, Dear Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications has repeatedly expressed its view that the two undertakings should maintain their status and continue to fulfil the public tasks entrusted to them. We propose at present that the State-owned company "Transport Construction and Recovery" and the State Enterprise "Communicational Construction and Recovery" should retain their state-owned enterprises status. We propose a change in the model of funding of the public tasks entrusted to the two undertakings. The law regulates the activity and management of state-owned enterprises, which are legal entities under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law with seat Sofia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to take advantage of the right to a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u188	Minister, I understand your position. Do I not understand whether you are taking such a step as a legal measure, and what time will it be implemented?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u189	Yes, Mr. Yachev, such a step has been taken. The paperwork is being moved to the Ministry of Finance. When we have an answer, I will react immediately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u190	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next current issue is from Mr. Slavi Binev on dealing with problems in the Executive Agency. Here you go, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u191	I apologize in advance, Minister, as this will be a difficult matter. I know you're not feeling well right now, but it does you the honor of staying here. So I'll be as brief as possible. It's really a very serious matter. A number of problems have been observed in the Executive Agency, which has literally become an agency of corruption and chaos. I've repeatedly alerted the Agency's misconceptions, but you never took decisive action, Mr. Minister. Corruption levels have gotten even higher. I recommend to you and the government ministers to see the question I asked you a year ago and the way you answered then. You were warned this would happen. I believe that the responsibility could be entirely yours because you were warned what was going on there. I have warned since the European Parliament's stand on this issue, as it has been raised not recently, but unfortunately no one approaches its decision. The ministers have to go back because the media won't. Freedom of speech currently does not allow the media to return to this question, which was asked a year ago from this stand. If you'd listened to my question and taken it as a warning, it wouldn't have come to what happened. I believe that this is largely your fault because you have not taken appropriate measures. I believe that these corrupt practices threaten the lives and health of Bulgarian citizens. Allow unauthorized drivers to move freely on our roads with a completely legitimate license. Who will take responsibility for this? I believe that a large-scale inspection and revision of the Agency's activities should be carried out, which should cover all individual areas. This time, a responsible attitude and will to reform the system that does not function well must be shown. Also, those responsible should be punished, not to have a common irresponsibility. Have all district departments of the Executive Agency been checked and what does it point to? How many are punished employees, and what responsibility will you take for your appointments? What measures will be taken to reform the Agency and tackle the problems?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Binev. For a response the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u193	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Binev! Planned complex checks were carried out last year in all the Agency's district departments. As a result of detected deficiencies and violations, disciplinary penalties have been imposed on more than 20 employees. We can also be in the hypothesis that the signals you have submitted and those we do not have the opportunity to investigate as the Ministry have served as part of the development of the specialized authorities for the action that has been carried out. The following measures shall be dealt with in order to address the problems: office equipment specialised as test terminals, where applicants will be isolated from each other and there will be no subjective factor; the introduction of requirements for personal electronic devices and other technical means to be left outside this test terminal; the verification of the photo of the person who is subject to an examination with the Ministry of Interior's personal data base; the introduction of electronic examinations for the acquisition of ADR certificate for motor vehicles for dangerous goods and for the acquisition of a certificate for dangerous goods and ADR examinations, as well as for the acquisition of a light car driver licence and taxi manager; the assessment of the examination work for the professional competence of the Head of Transport in the public transport enterprises to be carried out in the examination room, equipped with video surveillance cameras; the reduction of the time limits for issuing licences for carrying out the public transport of passengers and cargo; the introduction of continuous monitoring of the driving work carried out by the Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Binev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u195	Mr. Minister, this was a good attempt to use my warning about the fact that only then did the investigations begin. But if you see your answer then you will understand that this elegant move is absolutely inaccurate. You said there almost nothing could happen, that all the measures that can be taken and so on have been taken. This is generally a problem of all parliamentary control. All ministers, when asked something, feel that they must do everything possible to show that the matter is almost resolved and that it is untenable without understanding that in most cases the issues are a warning and a desire to help cope with their work. Once and for all, you have to put an end to hating the person who asks uncomfortable questions. In fact, these are the biggest props a minister has to use. Through us you receive a warning about where the weaknesses are and how to solve them eventually. Nothing else! I don't hate anyone, and I don't try to put a pole in their wheels. The only thing we're trying to do is make their job better.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Binev. Mr. Minister, thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going to answer an up-to-date question from the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolay Nenchev. He will answer a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Dimitar Dubov about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence to secure the activities of the Intendant Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The branch of Kalofer was in an unenviable position at the beginning of 2013. The workers had not received salaries, there were no orders, there were several mass workers' protests. After changes in the management at the end of 2013, with improvement of the company's management policy were secured contracts, increased revenues, and this also led to a revival of the company's recruitment of new workers, increased their salaries. In recent months, "Intendant service" has re-entered the media with a protest by its employees following changes in management and information about suspended public procurements, as well as for those to be executed or executed through a sub-contractor, without such being mentioned in the signed contracts or in the very terms of the procedure. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what are the actions of the Ministry of Defence as a principal, the owner of this company to preserve the activity of the company, maintain jobs and award new orders to this enterprise for the needs of the Bulgarian Army? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u198	Thank you, Mr. Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Defence. Mr. Nenchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u199	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Genov! In response to the question asked about the actions taken by the Ministry of Defence to secure the activities of the Ministry of Defence, I would like to inform you that despite the contracts concluded in 2015 with the Ministry of Defence for the hearing and delivery of uniform and field clothing of a total value of 5.5 million. BGN, the results of the company continued to be unsatisfactory. For the period referred to by you: 2013 - 2015, the company realised negative financial results, which amounted to about half a million for each of the years. According to the company's annual balance sheet, the liabilities amount to 3 million. lv. In the submitted report to the 2015 Annual Financial Report, the audit carried out raises doubts as to the company's ability to continue its operations as an active undertaking, since the company's current liabilities exceed its current assets by 31 December 2015 and at the end of the audited period the company does not repay its creditors in due time and has overdue liabilities. In this order for an audit by the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Defence for the period 1 January 2014 until 31 January 2016, the audit team has established that contracts concluded by the Executive Director individually during the entire management period of the company's executive bodies without ensuring transparency and competitive choice of the contractor of supplies and services are executed and the principles of legality and sound financial management are not respected. In order to preserve the company's activities and maintain jobs, the Ministry of Defence has taken a number of actions to ensure the work of At the beginning of the year, the management was changed and in April two new contracts for the sewing and delivery of field clothing were signed on a new model and for the sewing and delivery of field clothing on a separate list, as well as an additional agreement to the first contract. The implementation of these contracts will ensure the load of the company's production capacity and will preserve jobs, with estimated estimates in the near future that even additional jobs can be created. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u200	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a reply.. the public representative Mr. Manol Genov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you said that according to the audit you ordered, the company had negative results. I mean a little factology on the state of the company. The office's putting out a 4 million-dollar order. 355,000. BGN, to which several companies appear. A company appears, wins the competition a company whose main activity is production and stitching of sequins. The other company in the ranking is the state-owned company "Intendant service." In your ministry, certain employees, using your name, I can also speak with names: Chief of Staff Nalbantov, Director of the Directorate of Tsanov, exert exceptional pressure on the Executive Director for signing a contract, provided that the first company withdraws a contract as delegate to the state firm to assign the first execution of an order. The pressure was for a million and two hundred thousand, the bargaining took place at 900 thousand. The capacity of the company was so small that it managed to run orders for only 606 thousand. lv. I'll just tell you that the price of "Intendant service" for making a summer shirt for the army was BGN 5 and here the theft is triple. is paid the shirt of Lorton company. What if this isn't an outpouring of the army's budget?! People don't have the money to go on exercise, fuel, tires, batteries, we waste them using clothing schemes. Mr. Chairman, do I still have time?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u203	From this tribune I would like to ask you two things: was there any of these people trading with influence, exerting pressure on the CEO? Meanwhile, you know that one of the employees I quoted was detained, then released on bail. I ask you from this tribune, Mr. Minister, to swear in front of the people, in front of the colleagues, in front of the air, that your ministry is not stolen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u204	Mr. Genov, the way in which you formulated the questions is within the competence of other institutions, not the functions of a minister. I'm telling you this as a lawyer who worked in criminal justice. Mr. Minister, you have the floor within the time set by the Rules to express your attitude as a duplicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u205	Mr. Genov, first of all, I would like to thank you for your question. Indeed, such cases have occurred in the past. When a competition is announced, it wins a company that doesn't even have seamstresses, has no production cycle, and assigns to the You know very well that I have made an immense effort. At the beginning of the term of office, the enterprise had to be closed if we had decided to do so. I have made repeated meetings with both the management and the employees, and I have made commitments to them that I have fulfilled. Today, the enterprise is in a difficult position, but with a very good perspective. If you make a quick reference, you will understand that all orders at the time that I am in this position were directed precisely to This is a very strong step forward, this has also brought relief to the people who work there. My intention, I say with all my determination, is not to shut down the enterprise, but to develop it. From now on, there are several more orders to be made, for which we will do everything possible under the so-called procedure, to be entrusted to "Intendant service" and to stabilise the enterprise and to be an essential part of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-13.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This was also the last question in today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session is on 18 May 2016, Wednesday "9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
