ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u1	Good afternoon, everyone! Happy Grandma Martha! Be alive and healthy both you and your loved ones! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. According to the National Assembly's voted Work Programme for today's extraordinary plenary session, the first item on our agenda is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ELECTRICITY OF THE BLACK MORNING. Importer was the Council of Ministers on 30 December 2015 and was adopted in the first vote on 4 February 2016. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Nayden Zelenogorski. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Access procedure in the hall of Tanya Mileva. Head of cabinet at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and Miroslava Vladimirova Director of the Directorate of Concessions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u3	We vote on the procedure for admission in the Chamber of the persons designated by the National Representative Irena Kotseva. Vote 137 MPs: 130 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you the Report for the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, No 502-01-101, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 4 February 2016. The Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u5	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 147 MPs: 138, none, abstentioned 9. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u7	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1, which is supported by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 119, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u8	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 5 words the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works are replaced by the Minister of Tourism. 2. In para. 6 The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is replaced by the Minister of Tourism. 3. In para. 7 the words "the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism" and the words "the Minister of Tourism" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works" and shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism." 4. A new para is being created. 8. For the beaches under para. 7 the relevant regional governor may offer for the approval of the Minister of Tourism a water saving scheme during the relevant summer season. 5. So far, the Al. 8 becomes a new para. 9 and in it is created a sentence two: "No concession or rent sea beaches for environmentally friendly tourism included in the Annex to this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u9	Statements? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 which is supported by the Commission, edited by the same and found a place as § 2 in its report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 129 MPs: 122, none, abstention 7. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u10	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 by importer, which are supported by the Commission in full and are in place in its report under the same numbering. We are voting on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 108, none, abstention 6. Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8g para. 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Tourism or an official from the Ministry of Tourism is Chairman of the Competition Commission, and representatives of the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, the specialized administration of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Interior are included as Vice-President and members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u13	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which is supported and edited by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 124, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u14	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u15	Statements? I won't. We are voting for paragraphs 7, 8, 9, 10 by importer, which are fully supported by the Commission and are placed in its report under the same numbering. Vote 112 MPs: for 107, against 1, abstention 4. Paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u16	A proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works is replaced by the Minister of Tourism. 2. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u17	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 11, which is supported and edited by the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 113, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u18	Proposal by the National Representative Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs for the creation of a new §11a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... Article 2 is inserted in Chapter 2. 8p: Art. 8p. The Law on concessions and the Rules on its application shall apply to the issues not addressed in this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 together with the corresponding text on the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 121, none, abstention 4. The new § 12 in the Commission report with its respective content has been adopted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u20	Honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal that the next paragraph, which practically gathers around itself and opinions against, and, as you know, there is currently a protesting group in front of Parliament, to remain for the end of the Law, to be discussed and voted at the end, and in the meantime I will ask for a break and we will hold a meeting with a group of protesters.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u21	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the postponement of the debates and the vote on the proposal to create a new § 13 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 6. The proposal to postpone the debate and vote on the new § 13 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u22	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 3 the words "Securities of national importance" shall be replaced by "national resorts" and the words "the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u23	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12, which is generally supported by the Commission, is edited by the Commission and whether it will become § 14, will be understood, depending on whether it will be adopted § 13, so this will be further specified. We vote §12 by importer, edited by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 12 by importer approved and edited by the Commission in accordance with its report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u24	According to § 13 there is a proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from MPs Nayden Zenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 3: (a) c. 3 at the end is added to the seaside beaches for environmentally friendly tourism. (b) c. At the end of the year, the sea beaches for environmentally friendly tourism are added. 2. In para. 4. (a) c. 3 at the end is added to the seaside beaches for environmentally friendly tourism. (b) c. 4 the words "the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works" shall be replaced by "the Minister of Tourism" and finally added to the sea beaches for natural tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which is generally approved and edited by the Commission and has found an application in its report. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. Paragraph 13 by importer approved and edited by the Commission has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u26	Paragraph 14. Proposal by Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that § 14 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u27	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 14 by importer, we are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 112 MPs: for 111, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 14 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u28	Paragraph 15. Proposal by Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u29	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal for the rejection of § 15 by importer, we vote on a proposal by the Commission. Voted 113 MPs: 108, none, abstention 5. The Commission's proposal to reject § 15 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u30	A proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... The name of Chapter 5 is hereby amended as follows: The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. Article 5 shall be inserted in Chapter 5. 22f: Art. 22. (1) The Minister of Tourism or officials authorised by him shall implement forced administrative measures in the case of: 1. limitation of free and free access to sea beach; 2. limiting the area from the active beach area for free deployment of beach accessories by visitors and/or its equivalent access to the sea; 3. exceed the eligible area of the moving objects and/or the additional commercial area of the area of the sea beach. (2) The enforcement of forced administrative measures shall be carried out by a reasoned order of the Minister of Tourism or of officials authorised by him. (3) In the order under para. 2 determine the type of forced administrative measure and the manner of its application. (4) The order for enforcement of forced administrative measures shall be subject to immediate enforcement. (5) The order under para. 2 may be appealed by the persons concerned under the Administrative Procedure Code. (6) The appeal of the order under para. 2 does not stop its execution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u31	Statements on the Commission's proposals to create new paragraphs 16, 17? Here you are, Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor to express my satisfaction that the Commission has, in principle, supported our proposals, which we have made with our fellow Members from the Civil Quota of the Reformation bloc. I think you all understand the point of these forced administrative measures. I, too, took the floor in the first vote of the Bill and said briefly that we would propose such a thing. The point here is really these unpleasant, I would say ugly scenes, which every year we look at the beginning of the season as some people have built up access to the beach or other.. I am talking about unbiased carriers, have covered the entire beach with umbrellas, sunbeds and collect 20, 30 and more leva and one cannot step on the beach, and let alone rest and so on, there really is an adequate mechanism for their reaction, and it is an immediate reaction, and not an endless procedure of appeal and slowing down and the season goes away and nothing happens. Here I really hope that the authorities that receive these additional powers will carry out them in good faith, implement them in the interests of the citizens and of the holidayers and, indeed, stop the bad practices that unfortunately chase the Bulgarian and foreign tourists from the beaches and from our Black Sea coast. I call on you to support them all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposals for the creation of new paragraphs 16 and 17 with the corresponding text on the report again with the same condition that the numbering will be 16 and 17 if it is adopted § 13, which we postponed. I shall put to the vote a proposal from the Commission. They voted 119 MPs: 109, none, abstention 10. Paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u34	A proposal from Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 17. Paragraph 16. A proposal from Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 4. "4." Officials designated by the Minister of Tourism for infringements under art. 10, para. 4, 6, 7, 8 and 11, Art. 24 and 24a. 2. In para. 2 is created t. 4. "4." Minister of Tourism or officials appointed by him for violations under art. 10, para. 4, 6, 7, 8 and 11, Art. 24 and 24a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, supported in principle by the Commission and edited by it and found a place in its report. They voted 124 MPs: 117, none, abstention 7. Paragraph 16 by importer, supported and edited by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u36	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 9. Nine. The sea beach for nature-friendly tourism is a sea beach included in the Annex to art. 7, para. 9 which, in the light of natural natural resources, needs to be preserved by the conservation of biodiversity and ecosystems in a prudent use of natural resources and on whose territory no business activity is carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u37	Statements? People's representative Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I cannot make a proposal at the moment, but I would like to draw attention to the cases where the beach stripes are probably used not for business, but for some other activity by organizations, municipalities and so on. Since we are from the South Black Sea coast, I can give you an example with the Burgas beach and the island of St. Anastasia, on which they were built by itong artinstallations, it was decomposed by the rain and was not cleaned. I'm talking about something that happened a few years ago. Let's think about it and add to the text a restriction on such contraptions and such activities, because they generally do not conflict with the text for conservation of biodiversity, because of the sand which knows what biodiversity is not, nor does it violate any ecosystem. However, there remain consequences that make these beaches for environmentally friendly tourism a place where one would rather run away an hour or a minute sooner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u40	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I will request a procedure to postpone the examination of this paragraph, as it is of serious public importance and emphasis. You know that in recent weeks, the media have had serious writings on this very issue on the use of hundreds of millions of funds in precisely such activities, outside the business, regulated in the paragraph. So put in the paragraph, this text, we think, is betting a mine. Therefore, I would also ask that we postpone this controversial § 19 to the end, as we did with the previous contested paragraph, in order to have time to clear the points at issue in the text. I hope you'll support the proposal. It's for the benefit of the entire community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u41	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov to postpone the discussion and vote on the text of the new § 19 for the end of the discussion. Please vote. They voted 103 MPs: 25, against 16, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u42	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will make an editorial proposal in relation to the speech made by Mr. Valeri Simeonov, namely, so that we do not allow on the beaches intended for environmentally friendly tourism, under the cover of other activities actions can be carried out which will effectively compromise the idea of these beaches to preserve biodiversity and remain unique natural resources, at the end of the text after the business activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Hristian Mitev from the parliamentary tribune in the text proposed by the Commission, after the expression "business activity" to be made to the House of Public Works and then to place the point. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Christian Mitev. They voted 100 MPs: 23, against 5, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I ask that we vote on the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with corresponding content with the alleged number 19 in the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The creation of a new § 19 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u44	Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: In § 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Tourism shall be added at the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u45	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph together with its corresponding content on the Commission report. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission to create a new paragraph. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with possible number 20 and its corresponding content on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u46	Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. An annex to art. is created. 7, para. 9. "Acceptance to art. 7, para. 9. 1. Irakli Sea Beach; 2. Seaside beach "White" "Karadere" ; 3. Sea beach
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u47	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its corresponding content on the report. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new § 21 and its content on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u48	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u49	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the division, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 107 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 1. The name of the division is "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u50	Paragraph 17. Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The proposal under para. 4 t. 4 and para. Eight has been withdrawn. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal in the rest of it. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall be (2) The Minister of Finance shall make the necessary changes to the budgets of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for 2016, with effect from the entry into force of the changes in the rules of procedure under para. 1. (3) The working and working relationships of the employees of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, carrying out functions under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, shall be transferred to the Ministry of Tourism under the conditions and under the terms of art. 87a of the Law on the Civil Service and Art. 123 of the Labour Code and in accordance with the rules of administration. (4) Information and documentation available at the date of the entry into force of this Act concerning sea beaches in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as in relation to the provision of concessions and the rental of sea beaches under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, including in electronic form, shall be transmitted by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works to the Minister of Tourism within one month of the entry into force of this Law, including: 1. the originals of the signed concession and rent contracts on sea beaches with all the applications and additional agreements thereto, as well as the originals contained in the files of the concessions and rents provided; 2. the files on applications and open procedures relating to the provision of concessions and lease contracts on sea beaches which have not been completed; 3. the control and archive files of concession contracts and lease contracts on sea beaches. (5) The concessionaires and tenants of the concession contracts and lease contracts concluded at the date of entry into force of this Act shall retain their rights and obligations under the terms of the contracts concluded. (6) The payments due at the date of entry into force of this law shall be administered by the Ministry of Tourism. (7) All existing concession contracts and rental contracts which expire until 30 September 2016 shall be extended upon agreement of the concession holder or tenant until the conclusion of a new contract with a concessionaire or tenant, but not later than 31 December 2016. (8) The control of the concession contracts and leases concluded at the date of the entry into force of this Act shall be carried out by the Minister of Tourism from the moment of receipt of the documents under para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u51	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17, which is generally supported and edited by the Commission, and would eventually become § 22 in its report. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. Paragraph 17 by importer, which has been supported and edited by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u52	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u53	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which is fully supported by the Commission and reflected in its report. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 18 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u54	Paragraph 19. Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes that § 19 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u55	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 19 by importer to be rejected. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 19 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u56	Proposal from the MPs Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24. .................................................................................. The conditions of the tender for the lease of the sea beach under the rules for the application of the State Property Act for 2016 shall be published at least 15 days before the deadline for submission of the applications for participation and in subsequent tenders at least 10 days before the deadline for submission of the requests for participation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u57	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 24 with its corresponding content on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 104 against 3, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph with its corresponding text on the report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 25: § 25. In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...,) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point a) create a new t. 34 et seq. 35: It's 34. carry out public policy in the area of concessions on sea beaches; 35. organize and carry out the activity of renting on sea beaches which are not granted to a concession; b) the current t. 34 becomes t. 36 and amended as follows: ..36. apply forced administrative measures, impose fines and property penalties in the cases provided for in this Law and in the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 2 after the words the maintenance of the tourist infrastructure and the maintenance and management of the sea beaches is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 20, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 112 against 4, no abstentions. Paragraph 20 by importer, supported and edited by the Commission, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 26. ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 21 and 22 which are fully supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 106, against 4, abstention 1. Paragraphs 21 and 22 by importer and fully supported by the Commission have been adopted. We're going back to procrastination § 13. You have the floor for statements under § 13. The Commission's proposal is to create a new § 13, which has been reported. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u62	Colleagues, I realize that we have no right to make proposals. I think that what I am about to say can go as an editorial amendment, namely the dropping of the first word in the text... the transfer and the remaining camping of the designated places..................................................................................... I'll tell you why. There's no way to define the exact time of the night. I can illustrate it with an example. Let's say Mr. Mikov and I have a brandy on the beach, then we go to the lounge. However, a man with a moustache comes and says: "I am from the Ministry of Economy. For you, Mr. Markov, fine one MP's salary, for you, Mr. Mikov, fine two MP's salaries. [[Radio and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u63	It's discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u64	No, no. At this point I am glad because Mr. Mikov is worse than me, but he makes the following argument: I really was with my eyes closed, but I think with my eyes closed. And his fine is off, and mine is still on. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that the word is not refined and I suggest that you drop out, as the main idea of the importers is to prohibit the promiscuous camping on the beaches, the stretching of tents and the unregulated accommodation, respectively the illegal use of public government property such as the beach. So I'm asking you to support this editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor to confirm a position that I would suggest to fall under the terms of the stay as it is not regulated in the Transitional and Final Provisions. The night itself, when it's not regulated, can mean just lying on the beach, can mean anything. What does "night" mean? Firstly, this enables the abuse of officials, as has been said before me. Secondly, let us not at least reach out to the small chance of coastal municipalities to increase their demographic contribution. [[Laughter]] There's nothing wrong with that. Let's not forget, however, that there is an event that can be hit directly by the presence of the term "transmitter" in this Law. This event is unique for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u67	Is this an event on July 1st?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u68	The event is a morning of July, or as the illiterate English say it, but this event dates back to the time of socialism and represents an expression of freedom, dissension, rebellion and so on. In this way, we allow unscrupulous employees to cease to exist even at such an event because, since the overnighting is not exactly a term for what it is, the very presence on the beach can be accepted, and this is a traditional holiday of the free human spirit, which, I repeat, dates back to more than a few decades. In addition, I take the opportunity that I have taken the floor to recommend the definition of the term "camping" because I also do not see it in Transitional and Final Provisions. Perhaps you should mention that this is related to certain facilities, tents and so on, on the beach. Maybe this is where clarity should be made if it's not defined in some other law. I admit, I'm not familiar with the term camping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Enchev. People's representative Velizar Enchev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u70	Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, honourable colleagues! The Parliamentary Commission has voted on something absurd, which states that camping, overnighting and parking on 100 meters from the beach is forbidden. Thank God you dropped § 15, to be exact. § 15 really dropped out with a penalty vote of 1000 to Ten thousand. BGN, but I would ask: the very fact that such a thing is being proposed is forbade camping, overnighting and such terrifying fines to Ten thousand. BGN, does this mean, honourable Members, that if you fall asleep on the beach can fine you 10 thousand. BGN, which is absurd as text? But it is even more absurd to me that a parliamentary committee has adopted a text that is contrary to the human right to free movement, which is written in the Constitution, and also violates the right to property. Following this ridiculous logic, I would like to ask you, after offering such fines for people, thank God they fell asleep on the beach or camping, shouldn't there be parking tickets for SUVs and limos on public sidewalks and other places? But you don't think about it. By this insane logic, I suggest we write a law that if you lie down and sleep under a tree in the woods, you should also be fined. At all, if we apply this text to the 100 meters in which we cannot spend the night and camping, then I think it is logical that sleeping in hotels less than 100 meters from the beach should also be fined or, in this case, forbidden. [[Noise and lines.]] My fellow Members, I fully agree that there must be regulation of camping and the importers of this text are indeed guided by noble intentions, but society and, above all, the young people who are in front of parliament are against the full limitation of access to the beaches, and at a time when there are still many places on the Black Sea, illegal planning and only civil presence and protests, and timely signals to the institutions that people send, prevent the realization of these plans and the construction. In the proposed ban on camping, overnighting and parking in zone A there is an attempt to limit the right to free movement in order to clear out investors from civil control on the ground. We, honourable Members, are witnessing one such paradox: the maps of the dunes have not yet been published. They are not publicly available and, at the same time, completely intentional errors in the cadaster have not been removed, because of which in many places the dunes are kept ex-agricultural land or forest fund and are thus privatized on paper authorised by the municipal authorities for urbanisation. I have a strange feeling that these amendments to the Law, namely this amendment in the Law, are in the interest of the hoteliers and of the oligarchy, which is built on the sea with residences, private ports and beaches for millions, and now surrounded by high walls of the plebs, and besides raising uncriminal walls for the people, this oligarchy on the sea tells us this: don't you sleep in our hotels, where we will skin you, you better stay with us and don't come near our beaches! And you can say that, honourable Members, those who bring this amendment: You want the poor to sit at home, at sea to go only those who can pay for the hotel owned by these same oligarchs. And the camping youth are in front of parliament, not to go to the sea and to be on the Balkan. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] So, fellow Members, with me graduating, there may be hotels on the 100 meters from the sea, but there can be no campers within 100 meters of the beach? By what logic can one and the other cannot? I have a proposal: I accept this Law and this amendment if we destroy all the hotels that are 100 meters from the sea. [[Loud noise and lines.]] However, I hope that reason will prevail in the plenary of the National Assembly and that this ban will be lifted, as it has been dropped, thank God, the ban on fine with the unstoppable fines from 1000 to 10,000. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u72	Dear Mr. Enchev, I will make a separate statement, but I will now replicate you with a protocol from the Forest Agency to see what is established in this protocol. The following is written in this protocol for one of the beaches - Irakli - which we want to remain a virgin - in the forest areas and agricultural lands immediately and close to the beach are parked hundreds of cars, campers, caravans. There are single tents, suntans, including on the beach. In the agricultural land and in the forest there are a lot of scattered waste, traces of improvised toilets and the presence of extinguished leaks. By the way, let me tell you that in the Law on Protected Areas, in the Law on Forests, in the Law on Soils, the Law on Biodiversity has introduced such prohibitions that are similar to what we are talking about now. In all the regulations of the municipal councils, the municipalities of the Black Sea have introduced such prohibitions. Right here. [[shows document]] Let me tell you, in which countries in Europe is absolutely forbidden camping, parking, overnighting and burning fires outside the designated places: in Portugal, in Spain, in Italy, in Croatia, in France, in Greece, in Malta, in Germany, in Great Britain, shall I continue? Do we want to respect European standards for environmental protection, or do we want to Bulgarianize them again? I'm sorry, but it seems to me like some illegal beach privatization by the X persons who, at the beginning of the season, settle themselves there, don't pay a penny, don't maintain hygiene, and in the end, they become more equal than equal. To tell you that if you want to sell martenitsas outside, there has to be a scheme, you have to pay for 1 square meter and sell martenitsas. This is, after all, exclusive government property! You can't just tell everybody what to do!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u74	Mr. Zelenogorski, I would agree with you if the proposed sentence said that parking is only 100 meters from the beach or, say, overnighting, but banning camping 100 meters from the beach is a living repression and a service, a direct service, as I said just now, for the benefit of hoteliers, the hotel industry. With all due respect to this industry, since it is really extremely important for the Bulgarian economy, for ourselves, but also for part of the oligarchy, so camping can and should not prohibit it and these examples that you give with countries such as Portugal, France, Italy, Mr. Zelenogorski, it is good to give them, but still the standard of living you know what is in these countries, you know the Bulgarian youth who mainly use this form of holiday camping, what opportunities they have in Portugal, and Spain and what opportunities they have in Bulgaria. In addition, I would like to tell you that in the proposed ban on camping, overnighting and parking in zone A there is an attempt to restrict the right to free movement, which is guaranteed in the Constitution, as I said at the beginning, but this is for a certain purpose and the aim is to free investors from civil control on the ground and to have no one to prevent the investor attempts to circumvent the Law and illegal construction, including on dunes, which have indeed been prevented in recent years, but it is thanks to the civil protest and especially the discontent of the Bulgarian youth. So, I repeat: well, for parking 100 meters, you're right, but why forbid camping? And the nightingale is so controversial and can be treated and commented in so many ways that one can always enter the infringement procedure, whether it will stay after 10:00, after 11:00 or 24:00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. For procedure the word has the people representative Irena Kotseva. The MPs Radan Kanev, Georgi Kuchukov and Dimitar Bajraktarov have signed up for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am going out with a procedure to put an end to this debate, because for the most part, it goes beyond the subject. I also refer to the last statement. "There are people who have not read in depth the Law we are currently looking at. We are talking about fighting European standards to protect the environment. We don't talk about what hotels there will be or where to park the cars. If the negotiators and subsequents read the provisions of this Law well, they will understand that this, first of all, is not a topic of conversation. We are talking about asking for European environmental rules, and this is one way to achieve it. Please, therefore, very much, let us put an end to this debate and move on to a vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u77	A reverse opinion? National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want reverse procedure. Firstly, it is no accident that we postponed this paragraph to the end precisely because it was known that it was controversial, there was a debate on it. And secondly, you will excuse me, but a person who steps once on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast to teach me where what is happening is a bit unserious.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u79	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u80	If you had read the Law very well, my dear colleague, you wouldn't have voted just a few minutes ago on the conservation of environmentally friendly beaches, because we also asked you to accept a delay in the debate of this paragraph, and now in boyish style: Give, we will not discuss! No, the text should be discussed because it is serious because it is the product of a wild populism precisely because of the misunderstanding of this matter, and it is good for people to hear the different opinions, arguments and to clear the text in order to be working and not damaging. I'm listening to a colleague here talking, but he doesn't know camping is a very good activity. We should encourage it, not deceive people, that this activity is prohibited at all. Where is it forbidden? Do you know how many camping grounds there are on the South Black Sea coast when you've read the Law a lot? You know, my ass! [[Reply from the National Representative Irena Kotseva.]] It's easy to stop. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The debate will not be terminated, I am doing the reverse procedure. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u81	That's for the plenary to decide. [[Noise and lines.]] I put to the vote the procedure taken by the National Representative Irena Kotseva to end the debates on this paragraph. They voted 102 MPs: 64, against 18, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from PF.]] It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will address you with a request for a re-vote. Moreover, colleagues, read the text.. We are talking about wild camping, we are not canceling camping. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u83	Don't let it get to the point, please! You're asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u84	In essence, I am speaking because my colleague just tried to insult me, and I have not taken a personal explanation for him. I know I couldn't do the procedure, but I'm using the excuse to ask you to do a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u85	Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. As you can see, the National Assembly has accepted my proposal to continue the debate. I didn't hear the coworker Kotseva's motive for revoting. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You know, there are rules in this National Assembly and somehow these Rules...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u87	You're about to find out what her motive is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u88	That's why I'm taking the floor the way it is. Since there was essentially no reason to re-vote, you should not allow this procedure, as it is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u89	The motive is written in the Rules. They haven't been able to vote, there's no need for any other motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u90	Who? Which MPs? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u91	Revoting procedure. We are revising the proposal of the National Representative Irena Kotseva to end the debates under art. 13 in the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 74, against 21, abstention 16. Which means 10 MPs couldn't vote. We're putting an end to this debate. Here you are, Mr. Zelenogorski, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'd like to request a 20-minute recess. There's a room reserved for the West. All Members of the Commission and those interested in the subject shall be ordered. We've invited the protesters. At this stage they refrain from coming to parliament. We'll wait for them in the hall, but I have no intention of going outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u93	Okay, then let's wait 15 minutes anyway to save parliamentary time. Fifteen-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u94	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Stankov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Nayden Zelenogorski, Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 9. Nine. the accommodation, camping and parking outside the designated places. 2. The creation of para. 11: On the territory of the sea beaches for natural tourism, activities under para. 11 shall be prohibited. 4 t. 2 (b) and (c) 8..................................................... During the debates, a proposal was made by the MP Konstantin Markov. 1 of the proposed new art. 13, para. 2 for the created t. 9, in it to drop the word "transmitter," etc. 9 to be: camping and parking outside the designated places. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Konstantin Markov from the parliamentary tribune. They voted 72 MPs: for 28, they won't mind, they abstentioned 44. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As the proposer, my colleague Markov, could not vote, I ask for a re-vote of this sensible proposal of his. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. It's a re-vote. Please cancel the vote. There's no quorum. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - absent Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - absent Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - here Irena Ivanova Kotseva - here Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - absent Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - absent Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here We have a quorum. Let's move on. Before voting, Minister Angelkova asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, first of all, I would like to thank everyone for their support, for their constructive proposals and to assure you that immediately after the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, we are continuing to work towards preparing a subsequent such PID to the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast, so that we can group the beaches and continue the overall concept of management of the sea beach, which forms an essential part of the summer tourist product. With regard to the paragraph to be voted on, I would like to assure you that it is extremely important that we regulate camping, parking at the designated places, so that what you have adopted today is the setting of beaches for environmentally friendly tourism, to meet its objectives and to have European standards in nature conservation. This is just the first step. Camping is defined in the Tourism Act in the new regulation, which entered into force for categorization and re-categorization of accommodation and dining places. We have set the requirements for campings to have two, three stars, to have access to them for electricity and water to be provided so as to ensure as much as possible the protection of nature, on the one hand, and the minimum necessary needs of each tourist. I would like to assure you that the upcoming summer season will be guaranteed and currently the teams of the Ministry are working hard so that season 2016 can be successful. Thank you all for your support. Happy Grandma Martha!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u98	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. First, we are rethinking the proposal of the MP Kostadin Markov, made by the parliamentary tribune. They voted 112 MPs: 85 against 9, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 together with the already adopted editorial proposal made by the MP Kostadin Markov. They voted 122 MPs: 106 against 9, abstention 7. The creation of a new § 13 with its content on the report, as well as the proposal made by the National Representative Kostadin Markov, have been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE INTERNAL AUDIT IN THE PUBLICS. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, I would ask for a procedure to be admitted to the Chamber by Mr. Fezi Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Venus Petrova and Mrs. Jasmine Toncheva, Head of Departments of Internal Affairs at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u100	Thank you. We are voting on the access procedure that has been made. They voted 83 MPs: 81 against 1 abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u101	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a bill amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the public sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. At a meeting held on 18 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance The bill was presented by Mr. Kiril Ananiev. He pointed out that the amendments aimed at improving the legal provisions in order to support the effective implementation of internal audit in the public sector. The following main changes are proposed: - Mandatory establishment of audit committees in all ministries, the State Fund and the municipalities with internal audit. The audit committees shall be advisory bodies contributing to maintaining the organisational and functional independence of the internal audit, effectively implementing the double line established by the Law on the reporting of the results of the internal audit activities to the Director of the Organisation and to the Audit Committee. A minimum of two thirds of the members of the audit committees are envisaged to be external to the organisation. Due to the fact that there are collective management bodies in a number of public sector organisations, the bill provides for the possibility for them to perform the functions of audit committees. In other organisations for which the audit committees are not mandatory, such may be established by decision of the management of the organisations. - An obligation to build internal audit units in commercial companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal capital participation and an annual turnover of more than 10 million is introduced. BGN, including medical establishments, for commercial companies whose capital is owned by those companies, with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. and for state-owned enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. with a view to better protecting the interests of the state or municipalities. - The minimum number requirements of internal audit units are repealed by introducing criteria from which the heads of public sector organisations should be guided in determining the number of employees in the internal audit. - The coordination and methodological functions of the Minister of Finance in relation to the strategic and annual planning of the internal audit related to the state's most up-to-date and priority issues shall be strengthened. In this regard, it is envisaged that the Minister of Finance will issue guidelines for priority audit objectives and areas and monitor the results of the implementation of those commitments by receiving and analysing information from audit reports. In these cases, three main reporting lines shall be formed: to the head of the organisation, to the audit committee and, in certain cases, to the Minister of Finance, aiming at greater independence of the internal audit in the exercise of its functions and also to increase the benefits of public sector audits. - The scope of the coordination procedure with the Minister of Finance for the appointment and release of internal auditors in certain categories of organisations is extended. - A new way of structuring internal audit in municipalities is created by introducing a legal opportunity to create shared centralized internal audit units for a municipality to carry out internal audit in several municipalities. In such cases, an agreement is intended to be concluded between the municipalities to settle matters such as: budget planning for this activity and the setting of remuneration for internal auditors, the appointment of their place of employment, the validation of the internal audit unit's plans, the award of audit commitments and the designation of their teams, and the reporting of their performance. This will also enable municipalities where there is no internal audit at this time to use this tool to monitor and evaluate processes and activities. The proposed bill does not concern the implementation of European law rules, and therefore no analysis of compliance with European Union law is required. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the Public Sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. There is yet another report on this draft of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Who will present the report to the Commission - President, Vice-President, Member? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} on Draft Law amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the Public Sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 19 November 2015, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the Public Sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mr. Feizy Bekir, Deputy Minister of Finance, and Mrs. Svilena Simeonova, Director of Internal Control Directorate at the Ministry of Finance, who presented the draft on behalf of the importer. The proposed changes to the law aim to support the effective implementation of internal audit in the public sector and to update the arrangements with a view to the development and implementation of this activity. There is a mandatory establishment of audit committees in all ministries, the State Fund and the municipalities with internal audit. An obligation is introduced for commercial companies with more than 50 percent state or municipal capital participation and an annual turnover of more than 10 million. BGN, including medical establishments, for commercial companies whose capital is owned by those companies, with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. lv. and for state-owned enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Act with an annual turnover of more than 10 million. BGN, build internal audit units. The financial situation of the listed companies and undertakings and the need for better protection of the interests of the State or the municipality require the existence of an effective internal audit. The scope of the coordination procedure with the Minister of Finance for the appointment and release of internal auditors in certain categories of organisations shall be extended. The proposed changes introduce such a procedure for all internal auditors, not just internal audit managers, with a view to ensuring greater independence in the performance of their functions. A new way of structuring internal audit in municipalities is being established by introducing a legal opportunity to establish shared centralized internal audit units for a municipality to carry out internal audit in several municipalities. In such cases, an agreement is intended to be concluded between the municipalities to settle matters such as: budget planning for this activity and the setting of remuneration for internal auditors, the designation of their place of employment, the validation of the internal audit unit's plans, the award of audit commitments and the identification of their teams, and the reporting of their performance. The opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria expresses the principle support for the changes proposed in the Bill. At the same time, attention is paid to the fact that municipalities are among the organizations with a collective body in the face of the municipal council, which is why the establishment of audit committees should be at the discretion of the municipal council, as the municipal council itself can perform the functions of an audit committee. It is also proposed to provide for the legal possibility for several commercial companies with municipal capital participation whose annual turnover is individually less than 10 million. BGN, but their total turnover exceeds this limit, to set up an internal audit unit. During the discussion, MPs expressed their principled support for the proposed changes. Attention was paid to the need to refine the provisions concerning municipalities, taking into account the proposals made in the opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 9 votes,...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. There are no other reports to this bill. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Are there anyone who would like to speak on the bill? Colleagues, last question: are there anyone who would like to speak on the bill? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Internal Audit Act in the public sector, No 502-01-78, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 September 2015. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The bill was passed at first reading. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure to extend the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the bill to 21 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u106	Is there an obnoxious suggestion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 77 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next item of today's extraordinary sitting is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR STATE AID. There are several reports on this bill. The first is the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would again ask for a procedure in the Chamber to be allowed under this bill Mr. Bekir.. Deputy Minister of Finance and Mrs. Lydia Ateva.. Head of the Department of State Aid and Real Sector.................................................................................... and Mrs.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u108	Thank you. A procedural proposal has been made for access to the House of Executive Representatives. Voting mode. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Go to the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u109	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance under State aid law No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. At a meeting held on 11 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Aid Bill. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Fezi Bekir, who presented the Bill to her. The drafting of this new State aid law is imposed by the provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts, which requires that, in the event of numerous and important changes to a law in force, the latter be replaced by a new one relating to the same matter. The bill retains the general provisions, the powers of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the general logic and structure of procedures, the exchange of information and coordination, but also introduces specific regulations covering the modernisation of State aid rules. It improves and refines national legislation with regard to the procedures and practices imposed by the requirements of the European Regulations and Practices of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The main proposals for change are: - The Bill introduces an obligation to establish the amount and beneficiaries of unlawful and incompatible State aid by the administrator in cases where, by the decision of the European Commission, the beneficiaries of the aid and the amount of the aid received by them are not predetermined. The recovery of unlawful aid will be carried out on the basis of a decision of the European Commission, with a recovery order and an act establishing a public claim in cases where applicable. The act establishing a public claim shall be issued by the administrator of the aid under the Administrative Procedure Code. - A new important element is the settlement of certain specifics of the proceedings to challenge acts for granting State aid and for infringements of national law and European law. The mandatory full recovery of unlawful State aid shall be introduced, as well as the award of unlawful interest and the possibility of bringing a claim for compensation for damages in cases defined by the Bill. - The draft provides for an opportunity for the national court to refer to the European Commission for assistance in decision-making in cases which it deals with through a request for information and documents or to ask the European Commission to submit an opinion on the application of the State aid rules. - The Bill introduces basic principles for the granting of State aid and minimum aid, which are laid down in accordance with the rules laid down in the relevant act of European Union law. - The Bill establishes provisions to ensure sufficient planning capacity, development, notification, management, reporting and control of the granting of State and minimal aid by the administrators of aid. - In order to refine the legal framework, the functions of the Minister of Finance shall also be extended to provide specific guidance to aid administrators, including on the maintenance of administrative capacity and/or the introduction of rules and procedures to improve the administration of the measures. - The Bill proposes drawing up the acts for the identification of infringements to be carried out by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection under the Law on State Financial Inspection. The agency will issue the penalty warrants as well. The Act in force required that the control be carried out directly by the Minister of Finance, which was not applicable to the same, given the existence of a legal conflict defined by the functions of the Minister of Finance, as both a controlling and administering body. - The Bill also introduced changes in terms of the amount of fines and penalty payments when the Agency for State Financial Inspection of Mistakes is established. They are developed on the basis of the principle of proportionality and proportionality in relation to aid granted, the effect of distortions of competition principles and possible adverse sanctioning effects on the State and aim to comply with State aid law. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft State Aid Act, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food follows. He will introduce you to her chairman Mr. Hristov. Here you go. I remind you that, according to the Rules of Procedure, the report can be read in a summary. I call on you to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on the State aid bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on February 10th In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in The Law does not substantially alter the existing order of granting aid and the general provisions, the powers of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the nature of the procedures are generally preserved. The main elements of the draft structure are the following: The subject matter and scope of the law, the compatibility of aid with the internal market and the basic principles to be followed when granting aid shall be determined. The Minister for Agriculture and Food will develop the content, parameters and mechanisms for providing and controlling all types of aid in the field of agriculture. It will assess their impact, send the notifications, prepare the annual reports to the European Commission, deliver opinions and participate in the work of the European Commission's working bodies in the field of its competence. A concept of an administrator of aid is introduced by signing its responsibilities as well as a concept of a beneficiary of aid. The establishment of acts for the identification of infringements and the issuance of criminal decrees will be carried out under the Law on State Financial Inspection by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection, which will exercise control over the implementation of the Law. Complaints and claims concerning the challenge of infringements will be dealt with and resolved under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Code of Procedure. In this regard, the transitional and final provisions shall be subject to the necessary amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code and the corresponding order shall be established. Following the debates held, the Committee on Agriculture and Food with 15 votes for the State Aid Act, No 602-01-3, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Christov. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u113	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe under State aid law No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 24 February 2016 examined and discussed the State aid bill, No 602-01-3. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance - Feyzi Bekir The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Bekir. The submitted draft new State aid law is subject to the provision of state aid and de minimis aid, the procedures necessary to ensure compliance with art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the implementation of reporting obligations, data collection and processing and information, the establishment of unlawful and incompatible State aid and the assessment of State aid for which no notification is necessary, respectively a decision by the European Union. The draft State Aid Act improves and refines national legislation regarding the procedures imposed by the requirements of European regulations and the permanent practice of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Commission in the field of State aid. The bill is structured into nine chapters. The main points which represent a novelty with regard to the mode in force are the following: The subject, scope and compatibility to take account of the provisions of art. Art. 107. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The nature of the concept of an administrator shall be specified and details shall be given to those responsible for providing state and minimum aid. The concept of aid is regulated. A substantial novelty in the project is the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid, as well as the recovery of improperly used aid. Fundamental principles are introduced in the field of state and minimum aid, in line with European legislation on the subject. In addition, the draft aims to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of the European Commission to Bulgaria under the preconditions of the 2014 " 2020 Partnership Agreements for ensuring sufficient administrative and management capacity by the aid administrators. Changes are proposed through corresponding provisions in six laws. The Administrative Code sets up a special chapter on State aid cases. The State Aid Act in force so far is hereby repealed. According to the importer, the bill will have a positive impact on all the affected persons, the aid beneficiaries and beneficiaries. Financial discipline in the public sector will be improved and fiscal risks will be reduced. After a vote with results:........................... 15 MPs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to adopt the State Aid Act No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Following is a report from the European Fund and Affairs Committee. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u115	♪ I can't believe The Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on the State aid bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. At its meeting held on 10 February 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the State Aid Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Finance: Ms. Karina Karaivanova Deputy Minister, Mrs. Margarita Borisova State Expert at the Department of State Aids and Real Sector and Mrs. Valeri Vulev State Expert in the same Directorate; from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food: Mr. Rumen Yanachkov Head of the Department of State Aids and Regulations and Mrs. Maria Angelova Chief Expert in the same Directorate. I. The present draft law essentially proposes a new State aid law and the annulment of the existing one. It should be borne in mind that it retains the general provisions, the powers of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the nature of the procedures, the exchange of information and coordination. The change is expressed in specific regulations, which cover in full the process carried out by the European Commission on the modernisation of State aid rules for the period 2012 - 2014. In addition, the Bulgarian legislation is improved according to the requirements of the European regulations and practices of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of State aid. II. With regard to unlawful and incompatible State aid, the bill provides for an obligation to establish its size, as well as the recipient persons, where they are not predetermined by the Commission decision. In this way, a national order is established to assess the amount of such unlawful aid where it is not defined in the decision of the European Commission. Thus, the market advantage of a recipient of State aid should be removed. III. As regards a notice of the European Commission on the application of State aid legislation by national courts and Council Regulation (EU) 2015/1589 of 13 July 2015 laying down detailed rules for the application of art. 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the draft Law is aimed at settling certain specifics of the legal proceedings concerning the contested acts on State aid and infringements of national law and European law on State aid before national courts. IV. The bill enables the national court to seek assistance from the European Commission in cases which deal with the provision of information and documents available to the Commission or to draw up an opinion on the application of the State aid rules. Basic principles are introduced in the field of state and de minimis aid, in line with European legislation on the subject. In addition, the bill complies with the European Commission's requirement to Bulgaria under the preconditions of the Partnership Agreement 2014 - 2020. In order to ensure sufficient administrative and management capacity by the aid administrators. V. Last but not least, amendments relating to the amount of fines and penalty payments are proposed through the bill when the Agency for State Financial Inspection of Mistakes. In this way, the discipline at all national levels should be controlled and improved when granting State aid. Real amendments were made aimed at providing aid effectively, efficiently and transparently; new concepts were introduced in line with European legislation, etc. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the State Aid Bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. She has the floor of her chairman, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Parliament, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State aid bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. At its meeting held on 17 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the State Aid Bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. The meeting was attended by: Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Margarita Borisova and Mr. Valeri Vulev, State experts in the Directorate of State Aids and Real Sectors, Ms. Mariana Tsvetanova, Senior Legal Consultant in the Directorate of Judicial Protection, by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Ms. Elitsa Zdradkova, State Expert in the Directorate of State Aids and Regulations and Mrs. Diana Fileva. The bill was presented by Ms. Karina Karaivanova. The draft law retains the general provisions, the nature of the procedures and the scope and content of the provision in force, while clarifying the national legislation and introducing important and significant in terms of scope and content specific regulations covering in full the process carried out by the European Commission on the modernisation of State aid rules 2012 "2014'. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on all affected persons, namely: aid administrators and beneficiaries, as well as the corresponding provision of legal aid through the use of national and European financial resources. The Bill aims to improve financial discipline in the public sector and reduce fiscal risks. In the discussion took part the MPs Dimitar Delchev and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support to the Bill. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, with no objection, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the State Aid Bill, No 602-01-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u118	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. On behalf of the importer, I don't think anyone will be able to present it. I'm opening the debate. Honourable Members, please, speeches? I guess the reports were thorough enough. I think we should go to the vote. Please ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues to the plenary. We are voting at first reading the State Aid Act, No 602-01-3, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 20 January 2016. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has adopted a procedure I do not see with which the bill was adopted at first reading. Just before the break, we move on to: FIRST REPRESENTATION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL RELATIONS WITH COMPANIES REGISTERED IN JURISDICATIONS WITH A PREFERENCE OF TAXION, RELATED TO SUCH PERSONS AND THEIR ACTUAL OWNINGS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. We have reports from three committees, respectively there is no report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Stoyanova, please, you or your deputy have the floor for the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask first for admission to the Chamber for the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Fezi Bekir. Deputy Minister, Ludmila Petkova.. Director of the Department of Tax Policy.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. There are no reverse offers. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal for admission to the plenary of the listed persons. Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests. You have the floor on the report, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u121	At a meeting held on 11 February 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by the representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Fezi Bekir The bill was presented by Mr. Bekir. He argued that the amendments aimed at improving the legal provisions and bringing them into line with European Union legislation in relation to the opinion of the European Commission on Enquiry No 6765/14/14 MARK. The following main changes are proposed: Changes to companies within the scope of the Law. The project provides for a change in terms of the bans on companies within the scope of the Law. According to the provisions in force, the Law covers both companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime where they directly or through their controlled companies participate in an activity or in a company and companies with negligible connectivity (including only one share) or which have no connectivity with companies operating in Bulgaria. In order not to violate the principle of proportionality, that is to say the measure does not exceed the objective pursued, it is proposed that the notion of.............................................................................................. The project proposes the introduction of thresholds below which the bans in the Law will not apply. The proposed threshold is a qualifying holding within the meaning of the relevant special laws in which the thresholds are different, with the lowest initial threshold in all laws being 10 percent. For companies in which participation is not subject to special regulation in other laws, the bill provides for the introduction of a minimum threshold of 10 percent to which the Law will not apply. The change aims not to cover minimum participations with which a company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime or its actual owners cannot effectively control a Bulgarian company or activity in Bulgaria. A definition of an actual owner, which is in line with the conceptual framework laid down in Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, shall also be introduced. Changes in exceptions under art. 4 of the Law. The scope of the exceptions under art. 4 of the Law in cases where the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime is resident for tax purposes of a State party to the World Trade Organisation's Government Procurement Agreement and of a State with which the European Union has concluded a bilateral agreement guaranteeing access to the market for public contracts within the European Union where the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime is resident for tax purposes of an overseas country or territory pursuant to Council Decision 2013/755/EU of 25 November 2013 on the association of overseas countries and territories with the European Union; where the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime is resident for tax purposes of a country with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international trade and/or economic agreement, including commitments under the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation, where the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime is part of an economic group whose parent company is resident for tax purposes of a State with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international trade and/or economic arrangement with the Republic of Bulgaria, including trade agreement with the World Trade Organisation. Changes in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. The project provides for a change in the definition of a "preferred tax regime', according to which for the purposes of the Gibraltar Law (British) is not a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime, as well as the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Changes related to the entry of circumstances and data on the actual owners. The Law proposes to enter into the Commercial Register circumstances and data on companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime which are directly or indirectly engaged in or will operate an activity to which the prohibitions under Article apply. 3 of the Law. The entry will be made in the case/party of the company controlled by a company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime which carries out or will carry out activities under art. 3. Where the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime carries out or will operate under art. 3 directly or through a person not registered in the Commercial Register, the circumstances relating to the company will be entered separately in the Register. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:......................... 18 MPs,........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502 01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Daniel Kirilov, if you please, in summary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Economic and Financial Relations Act with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502 01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. At its meeting held on 25 November 2015, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the bill cited. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Tax Policy Directorate and Mrs. Irena Hristova, Senior Expert at the Financial Policy Directorate. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova. The proposed amendments and additions aim at improving the Law, and the changes are dictated by the need to align it with the provisions of European legislation. A change in the scope of the Law is proposed by introducing a minimum threshold of 10 per cent of the interest under which the prohibitions of the Law will not apply. The purpose of the change is to limit the application of the Law on cases where a company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime has minimal and minor participation in a Bulgarian company, and its participation does not affect and cannot influence the activities of the Bulgarian company. People's representatives Petar Slavov, Yavor Notev and Daniel Kirilov took part in the discussion. Mr. Slavov raised the question whether the envisaged threshold of 10 per cent would not lead to circumvention of the Law and whether the rule on combating abuse provided for in § 5 of the Law would prevent them. In response Mrs. Petkova pointed out that the bill prohibits the direct or indirect participation of companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and the anti-abuse rule also applies to the direct and indirect participation of related parties. On Mr. Slavov's question about the replacement in the Law of the Words, Mrs. Petkova pointed out that the definition of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In response to Mr. Notev's question about the reasons for liberalising the Law Mrs. Petkova pointed out that the main reason for submitting the bill is the open infringement procedure of the European Commission due to the current full ban on the performance of certain activities by companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime. Mr. Kirilov expressed his support for the Bill by welcoming the introduction of a qualified holding of 10 percent for companies registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime under which the Law will not apply. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 4 abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015....................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Before announcing the break, honourable Members, to inform you that 15.00 in the Club of the National Representative Folklore "Hotnitsa Grandmothers" from the village of Hotnitsa, Tarnovo will present a rich folklore program and will also give us martenitsas. All MPs are invited to the event. I'm calling a break till 3:30. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u125	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please take your seats. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce us to the people representative Dimitar Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u126	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the The law on economic and financial relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. At its regular meeting held on 13 January 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. The meeting was attended by Feyzi Bekir Deputy Minister of Finance Ludmila Petkova Director of the Financial Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Fezi Bekir is designed to improve legal provisions and bring them into line with European Union legislation. Changes are proposed regarding companies within the scope of the Law. In practice, the scope of the Act in force affects an extremely large number of persons, even in cases where a company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime has no bearing on the activities of a Bulgarian company. Similarly, the opinion of the European Commission on reference No 6765/14/MARK concerning the compatibility of the provisions of the Law with European Union law. In order not to violate the principle of proportionality, that is to say the measure does not exceed the objective pursued, it is proposed that the notion of............................................................................................. It is also proposed to introduce thresholds below which the prohibitions in the Law will not apply. For companies in which the participation is not subject to special regulation, the Bill introduces a threshold of 10 percent. In the case of two or more companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and/or persons controlled by them in the procedures under art. 3 of the Law, the threshold introduced in the prohibitions under art. 3, may not be exceeded. A definition of an actual owner, which is in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive The requirement to make it possible to establish the actual owners in accordance with Directive (EU) 2015/849 is laid down in the Commercial Register to record circumstances and data on companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime which are directly or indirectly engaged in or will carry out activities to which the prohibitions under art. 3 of the Law. The register will not record identifying data on the actual owners of public companies as they are subject to the provision of art. 145 of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities. In order to ensure transparency and awareness of both the persons involved in the procedures and the administrative authorities, it is envisaged that the instructions on the application of the Law be issued jointly by the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Justice and that they be published on the websites of the relevant ministries. The proposed amendments to the Law will not lead to the need for additional funds for the budget. Written opinions on the Bill were received by the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria also voiced concern that regarding the restriction of participation of companies registered in the jurisdictions with preferential tax regime is going from one extreme to one share, in the other 10 per cent, and noted that the threshold of 10 per cent would push away potential portfolio investors by proposing to consider its reduction. On behalf of the importers Ludmila Petkova said that the bill was agreed with the European Commission and that during the conciliation procedure there were notes from BNB and the C.F.R.S. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. On the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I shall set tomorrow at 9.00 a day and a time for voting. Moving on to the next point: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONTROL OF NARCOTIC INGREDIENTS AND PRECURSORS. The report of the Committee on Health will introduce you to the President of the Commission, National Representative Daniela Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, Desislava Velkovska and Nadezhda Brankovska from the Legal Department of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u129	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Daniela Daritkova from the parliamentary tribune for admission to the Chamber of its designated persons. Vote 81 MPs: 77 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u130	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 602-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016. At its regular meeting on 11 February 2016, the Committee on Health examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, No 602-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January. In accordance with The meeting was attended by Dr. Petar Moskov, Minister of Health, Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health, experts as well as representatives of trade union, consensus and non-governmental organizations in the field of health. Minister Moskov briefed the participants in the meeting with the main accents of the proposal. The Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors proposes changes to the following basic guidelines: - implementation of Decision No 808 of the Council of Ministers of 2012 adopting a Plan to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses in order to optimize regulatory regimes in the field of drugs; - optimize control of drug-containing activities and refine texts related to licensing and authorisation regimes; - Regulation of the conditions and procedures for conducting treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation of minors. The proposed changes are required because of the need to improve the administrative service of consumers of administrative services regulated by law and by optimizing control activities to comply with legal requirements. It is envisaged that, when issuing, amending and renewing licences for activities with drugs and medicinal products containing narcotics, the requirement to provide documents relating to circumstances listed in the Trade Register be removed. The requirement to submit a document for the absence of charges of a deliberate crime of general character in the issuing of licences is also dropped. It is important whether there has been a conviction for such a crime which is evidenced by a criminal record of the person concerned. The proposal is in line with the presumption of innocence under art. 31, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 6, p. 2 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Art. 16 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, according to which the accused is deemed innocent until the judgment is established. It is proposed to waive the requirement to provide the following documents when issuing, amending and renewing a licence for production, processing, storage and trade in the country, import and export, transport and transport of narcotics for medical purposes: a copy of the authorisation for the production of medicinal products issued under the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, as well as a copy of the authorisations for the use of medicinal products containing narcotic substances produced by the manufacturer concerned. Dropping the requirement to submit documents issued by other public authorities and providing them by official means is a stage in the process of introducing complex administrative services. In this way, the legal foundations are laid for the implementation of the principle of single collection and creation of data and official notification, regulated in the Administrative Procedure Code and in the Law on Electronic Governance. The project provides for a reduction of the time limits for issuing, renewing and changing licences for activities with drugs and drugs containing drugs from 60 days to 50 days as part of measures to reduce the administrative burden for citizens and businesses. A requirement is introduced to keep public registers for the licences and authorisations issued under the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors in accordance with the requirements of art. 11, para. 2 of the Law on Administrative Regulation and Administrative Control of Business. The changes envisaged are related to simplifying and rationalising administrative procedures and shortening deadlines. The reduction of the regulatory burden for business by optimizing the regulatory regimes in the field of drugs is in line with the National Development Programme 2020, Priority 6 - Strengthening the institutional environment for higher efficiency of public services for citizens and businesses. 3.5.1. "Reducing bureaucracy." A mandate requirement shall be introduced and the composition of the Expert Board on the treatment of addictions shall be supplemented in order to optimize its activity. The terms and procedure for the designation of the Board's designation will be governed by rules of procedure for the functions and organisation of the Board of Experts established by the Minister of Health. In this way, compliance with fundamental principles in the organisation of the administration's activities will be ensured, transparency, openness, accessibility, objectivity and impartiality. The rules will lay down terms and conditions for proposing candidates, as well as selection based on qualification and experience. An administrative-criminal responsibility for violating the conditions and procedures for carrying out treatment programmes with agonists and agonists-antagonists of opioid-dependent individuals shall be introduced. The wording for cases where authorisation to carry out treatment programmes with agonists and opioid-dependent agonist agonists is withdrawn in the event of good practice standards for the treatment of opioid-related syndrome is detected. The wording of art. 73, para. 1 authorising drug activities from the lists referred to in Article 1. 3, para. 2, p. 1, 2 and 3 of the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors, bringing it into line with the title of the section. The activities of drugs for medical purposes shall be carried out with a licence issued in accordance with art. 32 ) (a.k.a. 1 of the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. The aim of the bill is to reduce the administrative burden of providing drug-related services and to optimise control activities to comply with the legal requirements for dealing with drugs. As a result of the implementation of the Bill, it is expected to relieve the users of administrative services governed by the law, reduce the time and costs of the administration's work and create prerequisites for the phase-in of complex administrative service. Control optimization of drug use will also be achieved, as a result of which it is expected to prevent and reduce the incidence of disorders. Opinions on the Bill expressed representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Movement "Promena", the Bulgarian Libertarian Society Foundation, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, patient organizations, etc. After the discussion and after the vote on the following results: the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Compressors, No 602-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u131	Thank you, dear Mrs Daritkova. No report has been submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and Food. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u132	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! You noticed correctly, Mr. Chairman, that there is no report. [[GERB lines.]] There is no report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food, because this report in the Committee on Agriculture and Food did not go to first reading, and I hope not, I hope, but I insist, at second reading, it will also pass through the Committee on Agriculture. [[Radio, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u133	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u134	That's my offer. Dear colleagues, it is the impression that the Bill is trying to push through a line of limitation of any possibility of hemp plant and its products being able to be used for medical purposes in Bulgaria. This is done through the proposed changes in § 4, t. 5 of the Bill, since in those paragraphs the text to date allowing issuing of licences under art. 73 of the law on narcotics and precursors is amended by a much more restrictive, restrictive and restrictive expression of................................................................................................. Motives to the Bill on this change are almost missing, which is quite doubtful. Dear colleagues, in the current legislation, indeed with many arrangements, but it is still possible to issue individual licences for the use of hemp plant products for medical purposes. However, the proposed change expressly prohibits it. Unanswered are the questions: why and to whom is that profitable? In addition, the proposer of the Bill does not refer to any practical problem in the application of the text. In this context, the proposed change does not correspond to the text of the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, where the state is also talking about the possibility, I quote: "Let each of the controlled substances for medical purposes and not just for medical research, as recorded here. The natural conclusion of all this is that the proposed changes aim to eliminate any possibility in any medical case the patient together with the doctor to obtain a license to grow this plant and use it. The patient remains the only possible way to be a criminal within the meaning of the Penal Code. All of this read against the background of the announced main objective of the Bill, namely, I quote:.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Their conclusion is clear: if adopted in this form the bill will ease the situation of the pharmaceutical industry, but not of the Bulgarian patient. I therefore consider it unacceptable and incorrect that this amendment be adopted, and I insist on the proposed amendments to § 4, item 4. 5 not to be accepted, because, honourable Members, the remaining of the old term for medical purposes is much more acceptable, much more humane than for medical research, which really severely limits the possibility of patients with these diseases that I have defined, and especially multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's, to be treated in a legal manner, not in an illegal way. And also to say in the end something very important. I will also say this at the meeting of the Commission at second reading,... all over Europe, in 32 countries across Europe, in the United States of America, in most of the states, in Australia in recent years has legalized the use of hemp for medical purposes, again I say.. only about these very severe diseases in which patients receive serious relief and not only of symptoms, but in individual cases and in treatment, so I suggest that the old text remain. Once again, I say: I suggest that the old text remain for medical purposes and in no way accept the restrictive text for medical research. Otherwise, I would say that you support with this amendment the interests of the pharmaceutical industry entirely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the law on control of drugs and precursors, No 602-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 3. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on control of drugs and precursors, No 602-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 January 2016, was adopted in the first vote. Here you go, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Due to the requested intentions to submit a proposal between first and second readings, I propose that the deadline be extended by another seven days from the standard seven-day period.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-01.u137	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes be 14 days. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is unanimous. With this, we have exhausted the program scheduled for today. Tomorrow, 2 March 2016, we continue with a regular plenary session at 9.00. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
