ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Honourable Members of Parliament, as we are continuing today with the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, but there are very few written responses collected, allow me, at the beginning of the plenary session, to present the written answers to the Members of Parliament. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on seven issues by the National Representative Valentin Pavlov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Kirilov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister for Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Petar Ivanov Petrov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Angel Naydenov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Shishkov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Korman Ismailov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova to two questions from the National Representative Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov, Metodi Andreev and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Kuchukov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Boyka Marinska; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the MPs Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valkov. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR DELEGATION AND COMPLIANCE OF THE SELECTED CODEX. On behalf of a group, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a Political Party Declaration and a Parliamentary Group. Alternative for Bulgarian Revival in connection with the 140th anniversary of the April Uprising. The April Uprising is one of the most significant and glorious pages of Bulgarian history a sacred work in which the Bulgarians pledged their personal destiny and donated their lives to be thrown together in a revolution, desperate but not adventurous, doomed but not without perspective! The uprising was cruelly suppressed, tens of thousands were killed rebels, over thirty thousand innocent women, children, and old men. Batak and Perushtitsa, Panagyurishte, Koprivshtitsa, Klisura, Bratsigovo, Stara Zagora A cause, a united nation and a faith in one! The sacrifice of the thousands of famous and nameless heroes allowed the restoration of freedom and independent Bulgaria. They resurrected our national identity, our national self-esteem. In those days, when we celebrate the 140th anniversary of the April Uprising, representatives of different faiths, beliefs, professions, ages will be united by a sense of appreciation, by the ability to show ourselves and future generations that the drive to freedom, heroism and sacrifice are alive in the historical memory and contemporary existence of the Bulgarian people. Reading and rethinking the glorious history of the April Uprising, we best understand that this popular outburst was not so much a sign of desperate resistance or sudden national awakening. He resurrected the idea of Bulgarian statehood. And this is one of the great lessons worth reading now amongst others. In the modern Bulgarian society there are many dividing lines of social, political and others. But perhaps it is in these difficult times that we should say in high places, I hope in one voice that we should take not from history what separates us and opposes us, but what unites us, motivates us, and ultimately makes us stronger. The first and greatest covenant that our forefathers have left us is to keep the pure and holy republic, to do everything necessary to allow our country's citizens to live in peace, brotherhood, and understanding, as the Apostle of Liberty had said: As they fall under the same laws. I also recall this in order to make it clear that the rule of law that we are proclaiming today does not stem only and so much from the recommendations of our European partners. The rule of law stems from our willingness to be faithful to the covenants of the Bulgarian Revivals, the Bulgarian revolutionaries. They gave their lives for a stable, healthy, well-equipped country in which citizens believe, which is capable of protecting their interests. Now that we have been a member of the European Union for nearly 10 years, let us not forget that we have not yet fulfilled the great covenants of the Apostle, namely, to be equal to the other European peoples, to be equal in every respect to economic, social, political, spiritual and with our national self-confidence, with its national pride, which has its deep roots in the Bulgarian Revival and rich Bulgarian history. Finally, on a day like today, we need to understand that outside will help us if we help ourselves, if we have at least a little of the will, of the self-esteem, of the willingness of the April heroes to work for the country, to work for the Fatherland. That is why the political party "Alternative for Bulgarian Revival" believes that today we should not just express our appreciation for the heroes, we should learn from their example, bring their faith, self-denial and love to the Fatherland into the present and future. Eternal glory to the heroes of the April Epic! Long live Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mrs. Alexandrova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u4	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the MP Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov: In § 6 t. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u5	Statements? Question to the importers. The proposal of Mr. Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov is in § 6 t. Two down. But in § 6 there is no t. 2. Is this about the next paragraph? [[National Representative Mariana Georgieva Kima affirmatively.]] Yeah. Can you state it from the stand, Mrs. Georgieva, because there is no point. Two? [[Field lines]] No, it's not a technical error, it's more like the proposal is for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u6	Dear Madam President, it is precisely about technical discharges. Please consider me withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u7	You're withdrawing it as § 6? Okay. In that case, statements under § 6 by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u8	Dear Madam President, I have an editorial proposal in § 6 under the importer of the election to be replaced by the election proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u9	The text of para. 3 is: "In front of each election section, an information panel with telephones for communication and signaling to the Ministry of Interior's regional management and to the district prosecutor's office shall be placed in front of each election section. The Commission fully supported the wording of the importers. You're saying that instead of the election centres it should be the electoral sections, which is true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u10	Yeah, that's the term in the Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u11	- What's the line? I won't. Any other Members of Parliament under § 6? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the editorial proposal, which was made instead of the election sections, in the text, to be the electoral sections. They voted 129 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. As Mr. Mestan, Mrs. Georgieva and Mrs. Hafuzov's proposal has been withdrawn, I now put to the vote § 6 by importer with the change made just now. We are voting, fellow Members, a text supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 124 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u12	Under § 7 there is a proposal from Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7," t. 2 of the General Draft Law of the Election Code shall obtain the following version: A new para is being created. 2: No polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic representations of the Republic of Bulgaria are allowed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u13	Statements? Honestly, Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! This, as well as other texts, proposed by the Patriotic Front, is primarily aimed at raising significant vices in our electoral process, which have become a close specialization of certain political forces, so as to accumulate voice resources, from it to produce power resources, then to produce money, primacy and so on. In this case, however, we are talking about a vice which has extremely dangerous opportunities to create dependencies of Bulgaria and of Bulgarian politics by foreign political forces. Each time in all elections, we see tens of thousands, sometimes reaching 100,000 votes in a neighbouring country, being organized by reaching the paradox to vote in eight seconds per voter. It is up to the Constitutional Court to cancel such questionable results in sections, to correct election results, which is not his job, as they say. Therefore, there is a significant threat abroad of territories that are not controlled by the Bulgarian state to corrupt the electoral process, to be extorted in favour of certain political forces and to bring about significant changes of representation in the Bulgarian Parliament, something against which we from the Patriotic Front have always been against. At the same time, the current system creates absolute chaos in the creation of sections, allows for example a person in a given settlement, say in London, to pass and vote in 50 sections, since there is no commitment of the person to a specific section, there are no electoral lists to oblige him to which particular of them to submit his vote. At the same time, we often pay rent for the opening of such sections, which is a corrupt prerequisite and at the same time a financial burden for the state. The main thing we need to know is that by adopting the text we are proposing, we are pulling out one of the most poisonous teeth of neo-Osmanist and neo-Islamic Turkey and stopping it from interfering with Bulgaria's internal affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u15	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u16	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr. Veselinov, who in his speech took occasion from words of Marx. I support his proposal. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, this concerns other legal entities outside the authorities of the representative authority of the Republic of Bulgaria. It's about other sovereign states. We have written in the Code that they can be formed to produce elections for MPs, presidents and representatives of the European Parliament sections, but they can be formed if the country concerned authorises this procedure. If he doesn't let us, we can't form sections in foreign territory. Moreover: it is possible that a country will allow, another will not allow, which will put the Bulgarians from one country and the other at a disadvantage. Thirdly, I would not guarantee that, by allowing it, the other country would not try to protect in this administrative order and its own personal interest by setting out the relevant sections. In this regard, I support Mr. Veselinov's proposal, and I think it is appropriate, namely to prevent the formation of polling stations outside the territory of diplomatic representations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u17	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I fully support Mr. Iskren Veselinov's initiative for several reasons. Firstly, there is no single legislation in the European Union that obliges the parties to comply with elections in other Member States. This to some extent unties our hands and gives us the opportunity from a European perspective to accept Mr. Veselinov's proposal. I'd like to give you a very important reference, which says his proposal is more than up-to-date. In 2013, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs sent notes to 130 countries requesting the opening of polling stations for Bulgarian citizens who wish to vote. According to this statistic, 22 countries then refused for two reasons: either there is a legal prohibition to hold elections in their territory from other countries with their nationals, or because of the need for security that the country concerned cannot provide. Who were the countries that refused, and those members of the European Union? Hungary and Slovakia. Another two major world powers, India and China, have also declined, and a number of Middle East and African countries. Don't forget about Iran as well. I find this fact very revealing. Germany until 2014 also prohibited elections to be held on its territory in sections opened by the Bulgarian Embassy in Berlin. Only in 2014 did it allow 15 cities to have such polling stations. And now the most important. After two years the electronic vote is introduced in the Bulgarian legislation. It's being introduced anyway. Once the electronic vote is put in place, what is the point of setting up polling stations outside diplomatic missions? There is no logic here not to accept the proposal in this sense of Mr. Iskren Veselinov, because after two years we will have to change the legislation again and ban voting outside the diplomatic representations. With regard to his arguments for manipulation of the vote in the Republic of Turkey, we have all seen reports from previous parliamentary elections on how to vote in the dozens of sections opened on the territory of the Republic of Turkey, dozens of reports from the National Television. Thank you. I think you should all support this proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Krasimir Karakachanov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u20	Dear colleagues, I have to wake up the hall a little, because some of my colleagues have not yet had coffee and the debate is not leaving. A little wake-up call! [[Laughter and excitement.]] This is one of the most important, fundamental texts of the Law. For years Bulgaria has allowed a foreign country to interfere in the internal affairs of the sovereign state of Bulgaria, a member of the European Union and NATO. As some of the pre-speakers have said, not all countries in the world allow elections to take place on their territory uncontrollably. For example, the Federal Republic of Germany does not allow it. The exception was only in the past elections, because at the same time there were elections. It's a fact. Otherwise, there is no voting in sections found randomly everywhere. The problem is not that six -seven thousand Bulgarians vote in the United States, two thousand in Canada and, for example, ten thousand in Europe. The problem is that with the door that we have wide opened in our Election Law, sections are being opened everywhere at the request of some people and it comes to the fact that a neighbouring country, the Republic of Turkey, I say it in a straight text so that there are no doubts when you have to vote, how to vote, it is the policy of the Republic of Turkey to directly interfere in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. You remember that in 2009, the results in some sections were even cashed out. Why? Because it turned out that in sections that were randomly discovered in the territory of the entire Republic of Turkey in Asia, they voted 1,600 for 1800 people in one election day. Then a forensic experiment was made and it turned out to be technically impossible! All of you here have made elections and you know that in a section between 800 and 900 people, even 900 people are many, between 700 and 800 people is the maximum people who can vote, and it is well-dominated Bulgarian, normally communicating with the committee and who are literate people. But 1,600 or 1,800 people voting in a section, it only shows one thing! [[Noise and lines.]] This is also an indicator in the arguments I give. This is an opportunity for someone to fake elections in foreign territory without Bulgaria having the opportunity to control this process. In the last parliamentary elections, the polls were 148. From them on some of the reports released on the Bulgarian televisions are clearly and accurately, first of all, how during the electoral process, the voting is spoken in a language which is unknown to the advocates and observers sent by the Republic of Bulgaria to control the process, that is, not spoken in Bulgarian. Secondly, following the translations, it is established that the committee, which supposedly should look at the order and honesty of the elections, is directly telling those who enter for whom to vote. And thirdly, the fact is that on the day of the elections and on the day of reflection, when under the Bulgarian Law there is no right to make election propaganda, in the territory of the Republic of Turkey such is done until the last hour of the vote! Why is it being done? Because under the Bulgarian Law, the Central Election Commission cannot sanction foreign citizens or foreign media who do such a thing. And I ask the other question: who needs this pornography to continue? I ask: will we, as MPs, allow a foreign country not only foreign, but a country that is increasingly Islamized, which openly interferes with the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria... You remember that we even went so far as to set up a committee to investigate this country's involvement in our internal affairs! We all know what their diplomats are doing in Bulgaria! We all know what their agents are doing in Bulgaria! We all know what this country's positions are in the country of Bulgaristan according to them! Well, I ask the question: will we allow someone to organise elections for us, to bring parties into the Bulgarian Parliament, who did not elect them the Bulgarian citizen, but people to whom someone else tells them who to vote for?! What do you think: who will be the work of the so-called expatriate organisations in Turkey, which is the fact that they are officially financed by the budget of their foreign ministry, while their objectives or almost their objectives are under the control of Turkish special services?! They are an instrument in their external neo-Osmanist policy! Who are they voting for? Or perhaps one of the parties here has the illusion that they will vote for one of the traditional parties that have any ideas?! They won't even vote for the party that represented them half a year ago! [[Replys from DPS: "Come on! "]] Come on, no, come on! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Now here we will hear speeches that will tell me about the right of choice, about the right of Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u21	The weather, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u22	The right to choose is another thing, colleagues, but the honour, dignity and sovereignty of the Republic of Bulgaria are even more important because those who vote in Turkey do not vote with the conscience of free citizens! They vote for those who are told to do so in the next election. Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u24	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, Turkey cannot be our excuse for this proposal. In the last election, they voted 144,000. Bulgarians and only 59 thousand that means less than 50% have voted in Turkey. Most of the arguments that you have made are related to violation of electoral legislation abroad. Let all interested parties send observers who are advocates in these sections to stop the practices that you have described. Yeah, they can't vote 1,500 people. If the election day is 12 hours, if you vote one person per minute, 60 times 12 is 720. Yeah, it's impossible. It's not gonna happen. Yes, electoral violations are being made, but they are allowed to be done. It is not possible with this legislation that is proposed, in fact, the justification to be Turkey, because if there live 150 Bulgarians, outside Turkey and elsewhere live perhaps a million or more. Why should we deprive these people of the right to vote? I do not think that the arguments you make should be the reason why all other Bulgarians outside the European Union should be able to vote. Yes, what is happening in the sections in Turkey is very disturbing, but let us send all parties our observers and advocates into these sections and make sure that we do not violate the electoral legislation, and not deprive absolutely all other citizens of the right to choose, the right to vote, yet it is their constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u26	Mr. Ananiev, I give you a reference, here it is in front of me. [[Shows it.]] You can also have a CEC, 2014. Where you expect the big votes to come from will not come because there are voting, in the presence of sections in Dallas, Oklahoma, across America and Canada, 8886 people. I will now give you a reference to how to vote in 2014 in sections in the Republic of Turkey: - Bursa, in one of the sections - 1188 people; - Gebze, 1148 people; - again in the same locality - 1113 people; - Izmir, in one of the sections - 1002 people; - in another section of 1524 people; - in the third of the sections in Izmir 1389 people; - the other sections have 1070 votes; - Istanbul - 1182; - in another section in Istanbul - 1283; - A section in Chorlu 1309! Come on, tell me now: are these honest choices?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u27	No!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u28	Well, who's organizing them? You?! You're gonna go check on them?! Have you ever been there? You didn't. Who will send to 146 sections in Anatola to control Turkey's electoral process?! What are we talking about? What are we talking about?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u29	You're talking nonsense!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u30	All you can do is go and find out what's going on, and then the Central Election Commission is silent! It's the truth and it's a fact! Why are you pretending you don't see what's happening? [[Radio, DPS laughs.]] This is where the DPS colleagues laugh. To be honest, I can't understand them once they're like this, once they're like this. It's a simple question that they laugh about tomorrow. It is in Turkey that your former friend Erdogan, who has now bet on another horse in Bulgarian politics, will bring him into the Bulgarian Parliament! And here is not the question we, as Bulgarians, to gloat that a Turkish party has split into two. This does not interest me as a Bulgarian politician, I stress Bulgarian. I am interested that another party will enter the Bulgarian Parliament, which will openly defend the interests of a foreign state! If no one understands it in this room, it's worse. It's the truth! We have nothing to lie to each other and nothing to hide! From this vote it will become clear whether there is a deal between some factors in Bulgaria and Erdogan, are there Bulgarian political formations that have squat on neo-Osmanist and Islamist Turkey or not! This will become clear to Bulgarian citizens. I call on you as Bulgarian MPs, we have sworn in this Chamber to serve the Bulgarian people and the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria, and not to some small party accounts. Let's vote as one for showing those handsome people who regard us as Bulgaristan and not as a sovereign neighbour that there are people here who will give back their neo-Osmanist ambition to command not only Bulgaria the Balkans and the Middle East! Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. People's representative Antony Trenchev speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We've been going down a very wrong slope since yesterday. We are trying to solve some specific cases, some specific problems through the Election Code, and this is very, very wrong. We should approach it in principle, not make restrictions, because voices will come from somewhere or hopefully they won't come from somewhere, or some such very thin, small-party accounts. It is the greatest sin of any parliamentarians to make legislation to resolve a private case. Yesterday, you spanked direct democracy by deprecating the holding of the referendums. Today we are trying to limit the number of sections for a particular purpose for a particular country. Perhaps my formation has an interest in things with the votes from Turkey happening a little differently, but this is no reason for us to support such a proposal. Until we do not build an efficient infrastructure, citizens can exercise their constitutional right to vote, we cannot import these restrictions. Let's make an e-vote, make it available for everyone to vote, and then we'll think where and where we can't vote in the physical sections of the other is cynicism. We cannot calculate how it will be more profitable as a party to realize our electoral support. It is very wrong that we are going in the very wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Trenchev, I can't understand one thing about right-wing parties or right-wing entities in Bulgaria behave as liberal, as left-handed, they do not defend national interests, but talk about freedoms. As a representative of the right-wing formations of the Reformation bloc, it is normal to defend national interests, be patriots and have right-wing policies. You're acting like liberal surrogates. For me, that's insane. And when we talk about the national interest, about protecting the national interest, and when we talk about problems, a state interferes in the internal affairs, in the elections of Bulgaria, you claim that this is not a problem. Well, how is that not a problem? It's a natural problem! We cannot allow the Republic of Turkey to interfere in our internal affairs! We must stop this process. And now is the time! Because tomorrow everyone will say again: look what they did in Turkey! Only after the rain, it'll be a hoodie. It is high time to really defend the national interests of the Bulgarian state and to be protected. It's high time we didn't talk about liking each other in front of the voters, showing ourselves how liberal we are, how much for democracy and so on and so forth. It's time to protect national interest! Thank you. [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u35	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The line is Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u36	Mr. Trenchev, an expert opinion. [[Noise and lines.]] Two years ago, when parties in Bulgaria called for Turkish translators to participate in the monitoring of elections in the territory of the Republic of Turkey, several people who count on the fingers of one hand responded. Secondly, I would like to tell you, as an expert, as an Foreign Ministry official only 15 years ago, that Turkish translators in the Foreign Ministry also count on the fingers of one of my hands. Those who know Turkish at the Bulgarian Embassy in Ankara are also several people. Including the Bulgarian ambassador at the moment Mrs. Neynsky does not speak Turkish. It is not technically possible for the most important resource to be provided by the translators who will help our advocates, as you say, representatives of different parties, to monitor the electoral process. How are you going to monitor this election process if you don't know the language of the host country? My line is not only to Mr. Trenchev, but also to Mr. Ananiev, who urged the parties to send their representatives to monitor this process. It is practically impossible with several Turkish translators to cover dozens of sections in the territory of the Republic of Turkey. Don't turn a blind eye to that fact. If you don't believe me, ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a reference to how many translators are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Turkish. By the way, the same deficit exists with regard to Albanian translators. There are no people who want to do this work - this is, of course, another topic because of low pay, not particularly prestigious work and other reasons that I do not need to talk about here. You, on the right hand side, do not turn a blind eye to these purely technical expert considerations that may contribute and contribute to the manipulation of the vote in the Republic of Turkey. And especially now, in the presence of this dictator Erdogan and the neoislamist ideologist Davutoglu's ideology, it is absolutely insane to allow such a vote outside the diplomatic section of the Consulate General in Istanbul, Constantinople and Ankara.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Is there a third line to the MP Antony Trenchev? No. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A real line I saw rather in the first statement. I'm not saying it's okay. On the contrary, the electoral process for electoral positions in Bulgaria is full of problems. I'm just saying this isn't the way, because we're working on a piece, we're looking at how to limit someone, and I don't think that's gonna come up with the solution. We need to see what policies through policies to change people's perceptions and results, not by not letting people into any sections. That you have a private problem with Turkey and with the voices that are from Turkey, it has an impact on the rest of the world on the European Union, America, the citizens who have the right to exercise their vote. If we don't give them the necessary infrastructure, how do we expect them to do that? That's why I'm calling you... We can only think about bans when there are alternatives. For me, this is the electronic vote to be adopted. Then we can think about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Trenchev. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This question, honourable Members, is indeed a matter of national security in the first place. This is not a private matter. I absolutely agree with that of my colleague Enchev because we have tried to send observers to this anti-civilized country. I can let you know...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u41	Please limit your qualifications to a country that is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u42	What country did you find out this was about?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u43	Well, now I'll wait to see, I hope it's not for ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u44	Well, then don't interrupt me! When people were sent with great effort to monitor this process, I can tell you what happened. First, they were not admitted to the electoral sections as these electoral sections were distributed into private property. Private property, which, notice, pays the Bulgarian taxpayer because it is not just given: Come and do in my restaurant, in my coffee elections! A serious rent is paid, for which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has given not one or two opinions that this is an extremely vicious process. From then on a huge group of people, many of them don't even know where Bulgaria is, some have not even set foot in Bulgaria, but according to the Law of the Constitution they still have a Bulgarian passport, go and purely corporate... [[Laughter and lines from DPS.]] Yeah, laugh! You know how these things work! You know better than that! ...go and vote for a specific political formation that does not serve Bulgarian interests at all. And now I can tell you something that is most disturbing: 15 people from this parliament are elected under the dictatorship of a foreign state. Fifteen people! That is, they are by no means fulfilling the oath they have taken but fulfilling the oath they have taken to the relevant foreign intelligence and to the relevant foreign state to work against Bulgaria. This is why the adoption of this text is extremely important to stop the intervention of foreign intelligence, foreign elements from interfering in our internal affairs and in the domestic political life of Bulgaria. Today it will be evident by the vote on this text who are the ortians, who have made the case to control the domestic political life in Bulgaria. That's gonna make it very clear! Therefore, with my speech, I call on all the MPs who hold the oath that they have taken here to work for the benefit of Bulgaria and for the benefit of the Bulgarian people to sit on their banks and vote in favour of the Bulgarian national interest, because this is an extremely important text! I call on you to gather and show, not to talk nonsense in the media. Here's the truth! Now we know who's protecting who's interest. For I ask you, colleagues, that you wish to send observers: and by sending an observer, and he shall not be admitted to the section of whom shall he complain? Who? And by whom? No one at all! It is precisely to no one that we have to begin for months to calculate, to prove some impossible things that have come to the absurdity that every eight seconds a person has entered and voted in a section, only what, after the evil has already happened, and now it is given the opportunity, if this proposal is rejected, to continue this evil with full force!? Full force! That is the truth, so I hope that common sense and the oath taken by each Member of the National Assembly will be fulfilled today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the people's representative Ramadan Atali.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, from yesterday started a serious attack against a certain political force, which has been since the beginning of the democracy of the arena of public relations in Bulgaria. Dear colleagues, we left with a lot of pressure. Yesterday, my colleague Tuncher Kardzhaliev tried to reduce tensions by trying to guide the speechable MPs to deal with the Election Code of the Republic of Bulgaria, but I am under the impression that we are looking at the Election Code for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, rather than the Election Code how and in what way to create, arrange the rules and make it easier for all Bulgarian citizens when they go to exercise their right to vote. From this tribune, certain colleagues come out with hatred and gall to explain to all voters how the bad DPS is coming, but this is by Satanizing the Movement for Rights and Freedoms so that they can increase their electorate, as if this time will not happen, colleagues. I am asking myself the question, colleagues, why from the first day GERB and the Patriotic Front voted for mandatory voting of all Bulgarian citizens, and today you are trying to limit them, to create an organization so that these people can not go to vote after they will necessarily vote all citizens? In Spain, if only to vote in consulates, that 50-60 thousand who want to vote, and I think there are over 200 thousand in Spain, in the compulsory vote how will they go to vote in a consulate or in an embassy? You know that in the previous elections in Spain, 2,000 people voted in one section? Why do colleagues not pay attention and say that only in Macedonia and Ukraine the Bulgarians voted 1000 -1050 people per section, and turn from time to time serious attention to how it was voted in Turkey? Colleagues, create order and rules! Once you have accepted that every citizen is obliged to go to vote, you have no reason not to give him the appropriate seat, section, to go to vote. To those 2,000 people who voted in Spain, once again, how and how will you arrange for these people to go to vote? Colleagues, I have the feeling that you have already prepared after the mandatory vote to determine the ballot and for whom to vote. If you write in this Law that it is mandatory to vote for Simeonov and GERB, as if already the Election Code will be complete with what you are going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Here you are, the People's Representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u48	Mr. Atalay, this is not aimed at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as you have said, that this is an attempt to Satanise and eliminate a party. What is offered by Mr. Veselinov is somewhat in favor of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, as otherwise the votes will go to the new political power of Mr. Lutvi Mestan, who until yesterday was in the front row. And this was best seen, Mr. Atalay, by the behaviour of the Turkish ambassador in Bulgaria, who went to the founding congress of a Bulgarian political party or it is considered a Bulgarian political party, but why did not he go to the founding congress of Party GERB, the BSP, the Patriotic Front, the ABB? The very fact that Mr. Turkish Ambassador Gokce allows himself such an action suggests that Turkey is entirely behind this party and not behind you. In this sense, you must support this proposal by Mr. Veselinov, as the votes in manipulated vote in these polling stations in the Republic of Turkey will go to this party and not to your party. If you show a little political realism, you'll make sure I'm right. And also to repeat what I said in my previous speech: after two years, the electronic vote comes into force. A moment ago, the right-wing representative also confirmed that fact. Why not make this change now, not two years from now, when in the electronic vote and the Bulgarians in Spain and those who wish in the Republic of Turkey will vote electronically? Who, then, will make the effort to go to polling stations even found in the territory of the Republic of Turkey in dozens of places when they can exercise their vote electronically? We're all about imposing this new, modern technology, aren't we? I call on you, you of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, however paradoxical, however strange it may sound, to support this proposal or at least to abstain, I repeat, because these voices of manipulated vote at polling stations in the Republic of Turkey, where there will be no control whatsoever, as Mr. Bajraktarov said, in this case on private property, this vote will be in the electronic cash register of your main competitor, which will give you yet major problems behind which the Republic of Turkey officially stands or, if I have to be more precise, the dictator Erdogan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Enchev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Atalay, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, colleagues, after the mandatory vote to create rules and an opportunity for citizens to go and vote freely, to choose the relevant political power, not to continue to underestimate the voter, and not to think that the voter is unable to oppose in order to preserve his freedom, then we as politicians have nothing left but to go and convince these people why they should vote for us. We are not able today as a colleague to identify and say that all those citizens who are outside Bulgaria will obey the fear or pressure of anyone. They are free citizens and will find their freedom and the right to vote for whom they believe they will defend their interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u51	The word for speech is Mr. Stanislav Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u52	In any debate in this Parliament, honourable Members, this confrontation is sometimes manifested, which we are currently discussing and which we are discussing in two completely different languages. This struggle has not been invented by either us, the Bulgarians or the Turks. It's made out of history, and it can't be erased. We can't hide our heads under the table, under the banks, and some to pretend to be great patriots and others to great Democrats. The struggle between Bulgarians and Turks in Southeastern Europe has a fundamental geocultural character. This must be experienced, and everyone defends his interests in the way we defend them now. By some strange coincidence we are discussing this extremely important problem in the days when we celebrate the anniversary of the April Uprising, and I will tell you something that I should have told you when discussing the draft decision on genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. Colleagues, those who have gathered at Oborishte to declare the uprising that Zachary Stoyanov in his own Zapsky called the Saints, these people have turned into the graves, you know, listening to you here, and what you are saying here. What kind of democracy, what liberalism, what kind of citizens, when we're up against the 17th century, the end of it, the second half?! What democracy, as there from 150 to 157 pages in the book of the current Prime Minister of Turkey, is written that we should not be there?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u53	Under the Election Code, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u54	I am speaking precisely under the Election Code, Madam President, and it is the least like you to interrupt me and make me a note! I beg you very much to wait for me to graduate! My anger does not stem from hatred of the Turks. I grew up among Turks, and I know these people very well. My anger stems from you burying your head in the sand and not wanting to tell the truth. And I'll tell you again: when you vote, think. And think about it, because your constituents, honourable colleagues of the DPS, have historical experience, and they know very well that for 150 years, when they have become the conductor of Ankara's policy, they have always suffered. That's why you're separate. If the Turkish state, the former Ottoman Empire, were 1,000 kilometers away, the situation would be different. But you are 78 million with them, and we are only 5 or 6, and for this reason we cannot give up and we cannot not stand up for our lives the Bulgarian life we have lived for 150 years, and we live today. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the "Attacka" and "PF."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u55	A line? I won't. Mr. Julian Angelov. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please don't move in the hall. Members of the National Assembly may not speak when other Members of the National Assembly have their backs to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make an editorial amendment to the text of the importer to § 7, the newly created para. 2: After the words "Member States of the European Union" to be heard......................... and the countries of North America...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u57	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u58	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! And in the Legal Committee, that was one of the toughest debates ever. I will only allow myself to say some of the key points that we should take into account by commenting, analysing and, respectively, voting on the proposed texts. With regard to the text of the importer, which provides and proposes to open additional sections only in the European Union, the comments here prevailed that there is a risk of uneven treatment of the territories, respectively of the Bulgarians living in these countries. This was explicitly noted that even in Europe there are problems with the opening of additional sections, apart from the sections that are in consular and diplomatic representations. There are European countries under whose legislation it is unacceptable to hold foreign elections on their territory. Such an example was much commented on Germany. If we aim to overcome uneven treatment, this happens with the proposal of my colleague Iskren Veselinov, that is, this rule works with regard to the Bulgarians in all countries, whether they are in Europe, in America, in the European Union. If the proposal of colleagues from the Patriotic Front is supported, and since we stated, and not only us, and the sovereign stated his will and desire for electronic remote elections, i.e. to vote by electronic remote route, we should in any case give the Bulgarians a lead abroad to vote electronically and this should happen as optimally as possible as possible. Given that the proposal of colleague Veselinov and the group of MPs from the Patriotic Front is supported, we undertake to amend our proposals in relation to the electronic remote voting so that all experiments and tests can be drawn as far as possible and, if possible, to vote electronically remotely by Bulgarian citizens abroad and for the next presidential elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u59	- What's the line? First line: Mrs. Ahmedova, second line: Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, in relation to the experiments you spoke about and the possibility of their withdrawal in time, my opinion is that this is not a matter of time, but a question of technical capabilities and how to prove that this technical possibility is indeed such that it can be implemented. It is not a matter of subjective desire, which is why what you are talking about: we will withdraw it, we will not withdraw it, it is not about the subject. It's a technicality....................................................................................................... There experts must work with sufficient time and sufficient conviction. The decisions they will make must be possible solutions, not by the will of this or that of that one, which is why I ask you very much not to make such suggestions that subjectively someone, somewhere, will solve this problem, and in time. The other question that I would like to address, because I have taken the floor, is that yesterday in plenary there is a text: The vote is mandatory. It is carried out personally by the voter and represents the fulfilment of his civic debt. Tell me, Mr. Kirilov, how do you allow citizens abroad to do their civic duty if these texts are adopted? That's not an option! You all say you want the rule of law, you want the laws to apply. Tell me, in this way, do you not create the feeling in people that these laws are unfulfilled and will not be implemented?! If the law is not implemented, the sense of unlawfulness is deepened, which is why I ask you to explain exactly what you are doing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Ahmedova. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you are very confused in your speech. I guess it was an accident. Because you stated that the sovereign had shown that he wanted an electronic remote vote. There's no such thing! Moreover, I would like to remind you that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria has an explicit decision to repeal such a vote. And not only the Constitutional Court of Bulgaria. The Constitutional Court of Germany also has a similar decision. Once again, there is no way in this way of voting to guarantee the authenticity of the vote, the voluntaryness. There is no way that you can use any technical means for such a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u63	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The third line is the people's representative Ramadan Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, you were anxious to explain to your colleagues how and in what way you made the agreement with the Patriotic Front at the last minute. Because as far as I know, 32 hours in the Legal Committee discussed these issues and questions and you had come to the fact that all citizens outside the Republic of Bulgaria are Bulgarian citizens and all of them should be treated equally, not as Professor. Stanilov to go out and say: I grew up among the Turks and then began you and we. Today you are doing the Law on..You and we.... and you want to limit those you expelled from Bulgaria..... not to have the opportunity and rights like all other citizens in Spain to vote, or what are we doing with the issue? [[Noise in the room.]] Tell me, Mr. Kirilov! Such agreements that you make on your feet will not lead you to a good law to be applied. You will give birth again to some law that will be either for you or for another political power, but the voter knows his job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u65	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for the doppelganger. [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u66	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, who have made speeches! I will try systematically, according to your exhibitions, to take a corresponding opinion. With regard to Mrs. Ahmedova's claims, I stress and explain the technical possibility there is. In the last two years of all the debates, all the discussions, including a demonstration of models. The question is that these models are assigned to be developed as quickly as possible. That's what we're talking about. This enforcement as legislators must be entrusted with a specific deadline. Therefore, in the version proposed with regard to electronic voting, specific deadlines are given. [[Replication of the National Representative Ferihan Ahmedova]] in which we have some disagreement, of course, but we accept that it is possible to shorten these deadlines as much as possible over time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u67	Did you choose the model?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u68	I can't hear you from here.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u69	Please don't enter into an irregular dialogue! Mrs. Ahmedova, you had your chance, you made a line. Listen to the back. Nobody was interrupting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u70	This depends on the authority that will implement and do the procedures. On our proposal, this body is no longer the Council of Ministers, but the Central Election Commission, because we want to have a professional electoral body at the top. In the Working Group, before the Legal Commission, a sub-group was specifically identified, which was entirely for the e-voting and which involved absolutely all developers and initiative committees working on the topic of e-voting. They guaranteed and made the claim for even shorter periods. If this period, which I mentioned, is too short, the proposal will be for the presidential election to be experimental, but this means that by the end of the year we have the first experiment and, according to him, after many tests, we will have the opportunity to vote immediately in the next election by this method. Regarding Mr. Atalay's line. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mr. Atalay, there is no inequality. If the text of my colleague Veselinov is adopted, all countries are equally treated only in the consular and diplomatic representations. Madam President, I apologize, but I am making an editorial note regarding the proposal of colleague Veselinov. He only wrote diplomatic representations. I propose an editorial: "Diplomatical" and "Diplomatical."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u71	Mr. Kazak, it's a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u72	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I have made a statement, but now on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in view of the new situation, I am proposing a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u73	A 15-minute recess. We continue at 10:35 p.m. The break will be close to 20 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u74	Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. The time for interruption is up! The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber! There's a statement from Mr. Chetin Kazak. I'm expecting Mr. Chetin Kazak in the hall. Are there any other MPs who would like to take a stand? Mr. Stanislav Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u75	Thank you, Madam President. I am proposing an editorial change to the import text: in para. 2 after the Member States of the European Union, to include the Member States of the European Union and the countries of the European Economic Area [[Voices from P.F.]] and the text continues by importer. Colleagues, our arguments are very clear. This will enable more Bulgarian citizens to vote and, most importantly, the Bulgarian minorities in Moldova, Ukraine, in Serbia and Macedonia, for which we all care, will be allowed to exercise their right to vote. This is where you'll find out who has a sincere policy towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u76	First line, Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u77	Madam President! I am glad that finally the DPS is concerned about Bulgarians abroad. Maybe this is the first time. Of course, the motives appear to be different. I'm going to make one clarification so we can be very familiar. Firstly, Ukraine does not allow dual citizenship, that is, the Bulgarians in Ukraine cannot vote. Secondly, in Macedonia and Serbia, which you also referred to as communities, the two countries do not allow elections there outside diplomatic representations, unfortunately, many times in Bulgarian, national elections. You can check that out. Only in Skopje and Bitola are allowed to vote in Macedonia, where we have diplomatic representations. The same is true for Serbia, where only in Belgrade and Nis are allowed to vote. These two countries do not permit the disclosure of other sections, unfortunately. So your arguments are not correct, they are not objective and they are not enough to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u78	Second line.....
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u79	I join the arguments of my colleague from the Patriotic Front, from IMRO. I would also like to say one more thing: neither Moldova nor Ukraine are in the negotiation process. They're just candidates. There are no open chapters there. They're just not in the scheme you're talking about, they're out of this framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u80	Mr. Bayraktarov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Anastasov, I am also paying attention to the Chairman of this meeting. I would like to point out to you that what you are doing is not an editorial amendment. You are intended to violate the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me remind you: Ukraine is not a candidate for the European Union. So one that violates the Rules of Procedure, two that you say untenable things, which, I think, is not even subject to comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u82	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear replicators, since we are making a Law that will not only be valid at the present moment, but also for the future, it seems to me that we need to take into account what we want from the future, what policies do we want? Again, what attitude we show towards Bulgarian minorities in Europe. Yes, Ukraine has no candidate status, but Ukraine is in the process of ratifying the Association Agreement, including in this Parliament we have ratified it, colleagues. This is the path to EU membership. Moldova has candidate status. As for Macedonia and Serbia, who are also a potential candidate, the negotiation process is ongoing and Bulgaria is a strong country, colleagues. You can negotiate there to have sections, and we will support you. Here you are, but show a really forward-looking attitude with the thought of a future attitude towards these Bulgarian minorities. If you're saying, "Well, we've written them off." That's the way it is! I'm sorry, that's not enough, colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u84	Mr. Kazak has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we express our firm position that for the first time in the history of democratic Bulgaria after the fall of the communist regime, there is an attempt to restrict in such a drastic way the rights of hundreds of thousands, not to say, over a million Bulgarian citizens abroad to vote. The absurdity of the situation is much greater than you can imagine. On the one hand, you have introduced a mandatory vote, that is, you have accepted that the vote is an obligation and a civil duty for every Bulgarian citizen, on the other, not only did you not remove the existing restrictions for the Bulgarian citizens to vote in local elections, but you also introduce practical restrictions by forcing them to vote only in diplomatic and consular offices. How do you want the hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens to do their duty by participating in the vote when you restrict them to exercising their selective right?! How? I am really surprised at the ease with which colleagues from GERB succumb to the pressure of parties who can never hope to gain the trust of our compatriots abroad. Unlike them, during all these years GERB regularly, every choice received the trust of thousands and thousands of our countrymen abroad. Is this how you repay yourself, honourable colleagues of GERB, for this trust, by deceiving yourself by the wits of the patriots who can only dream of these voices? In the name of waving out some irrational fears, you see, who knows what evil can come from neighbouring the Republic of Turkey, as if in all these years it did not become clear that nothing so scary happens if our compatriots, including in the Republic of Turkey, are actively involved in the elections. You have seen how the European Court of Human Rights issued a ruling condemning Bulgaria because it was under pressure from the patriots that the Constitutional Court abolished thousands of votes in the Republic of Turkey, which were legitimately granted to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. [[Noise and shouting from PF.]] You know, the Ruchen Riza case against Bulgaria was won precisely because of this. And despite everything, although the European Court of Human Rights has categorically stated that there are no violations of the electoral rules in the Republic of Turkey, that the Constitutional Court absolutely improperly annulled and annulled those votes, you continue to go in this direction to deprive hundreds, thousands of Bulgarian citizens of their constitutional right to vote, on the one hand, forcing them to exercise it and, on the other hand, to deprive them. We will never accept this unprincipled approach! Be sure of that! Bulgarian citizens will punish those political parties who are playing with his trust, who are deceiving his trust, who are denying him the opportunity to rule. I would like to address the common sense of those who, deep down, despite the directive given this morning, still have a shred of reason and dignity, to support what the Commission, after long debates, ultimately decided to reject these absolutely unacceptable proposals. I would like to say that if this does not happen, if this text is launched in this form, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will become a clear and uncompromising opposition to any proposal that comes from the ruling majority! I also want to hear why our former colleagues from the so-called "Party" are not in the Chamber. I am very interested when it comes to guaranteeing the rights of our countrymen abroad, why are they not in this Chamber to protect these rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u86	First line, Mr. Karakachanov. [[Noise and lines on the right.]] Let's have one representative at a time. You said first Mr. Julian Angelov and Mr. Enchev. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] The lines have been given out, Mr. Kirilov, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u87	Mr. Kazak, as far as I can see, you are still in the DPS in the group, not in the group of the so-called DOSTs and you are offering to colleagues from GERB. Don't do that! This property in Bulgaria for twenty-five years has not been functional for anyone. Before any thanks or ingratitudes, in the Bulgarian Parliament we have gathered to solve problems that concern the interests of all Bulgarian citizens and concern the subject of national security and we have an obligation to the Bulgarian people precisely in this direction, not to be grateful to this or that group that voted for this or that. It is a good thing, but in parliament there are principles and in Bulgarian politics there should be principles that must be respected. So from this point of view, your speech is slightly untenable. It is not true that we deprive someone of their right to vote. The Bulgarian consulates and embassies will be voted. You've brought out the proposals here on the Patriotic Front, almost some extremely anti-democratic. In Germany and in many other European countries, the principle is the same: the citizens of the Federal Republic of Germany can vote abroad not revealing sections everywhere but in German diplomatic representations. We are introducing European practice, for which you European Liberals are constantly inviting us. We don't do anything else. On the question of what votes the patriots can take and when they will take them, this decides His Majesty the Bulgarian people. We do not rely on any foreign statesman or governor to provide us with votes. If you look at the results in some Balkan countries, you will see that there 99% vote for us. However, I do not insist that there are sections everywhere in Macedonia, because it is my personal interest for IMRO to win votes, but I am talking about the interests of the state and the security of Bulgaria. I do not pursue my selfish interest in taking more votes in a neighbouring country where we have sympathizers more than anyone else. Here the cheap party interest does not work. Finally. I don't know why your colleagues from the so-called DOST are gone. They're probably back at the Turkish embassy. You know it, say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u88	Second line "Julian Angelov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I want to do something co-workerly. Mr. Kirilov wanted to make a reply to the topic that for Bulgarians abroad the vote is not mandatory, with which the DPS so constantly explains how once we oblige them, and then we do not give them the right to vote. The other thing I want to say, Mr. Kazak. You are again replacing exactly what the importer's idea is. You talk about how we restrict the right for example to the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria living in Turkey. On the contrary, we don't limit it. Every diplomatic office or consular office has the right and opportunity to open ten, fifteen, twenty sections and people can still vote, but will be under the control of the Bulgarian state. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] That's the important thing. [[Heckling]] Not because there are sections everywhere the Turkish state controls them. So there is no problem to have 15-20 sections in any diplomatic representation, but Bulgaria and the Bulgarian state to control the vote, whether it is correct or not, not another country. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] I speak correctly, in a vote, do not speak whether it is right for one party or another. I'll end up with this, Mr. Kazak. You said, "You dream of our voices." That's the difference between patriots and DPS. We do not dream of voices, we dream of a prosperous and united Bulgaria! [[(Noise and lines from DPS. Revelations: "Eeeee! " (Applause from PF.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u90	Third line, Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u91	Mr. Kazak, in your speech you started out very well, but you ended badly. I agree, the mandatory vote is an extreme error.. a big mistake which forces Bulgarian citizens as sheep to be forced into the ballot boxes. I agree with you here, but I do not agree that Turkey is a democratic state in which elections can be held. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] Okay, you don't believe me, I see your reactions. Then believe the statement from forty-eight hours ago of European Council President Donald Tusk, believe the President of the European Commission Juncker. What they said during this going week: that Turkey, if it continues to blackmail the European Union in this way, because the other day Davutoglu made an ultimatum that if visas for Turkish citizens do not fall, as requested by the Turkish country and, as already agreed with the European Union, Turkey will give up the Refugee Agreement, for emigrants more precisely, with the European Union. Turkey, Mr. Kazak, is currently not a democratic state under the dictatorship of Erdogan and Davutoglu. And in this anti-democratic, non-democratic state in which the rights of journalists have been trampled, because there is no freedom of speech there, the rights of intellectuals are trampled, we know how the protests in Taksim Square ended two years ago with human victims, the rights of women are trampled on. And it is for this country that you lobby to open uncontrollably polling stations of the Bulgarian Embassy, where we know how to vote, how to vote so far and how to vote in the future. In this sense, I strongly disagree with your thesis, and I believe that the MPs after a vote, which is coming shortly, will accept the idea of Mr. Veselinov, voting only in the embassies of the Republic of Bulgaria or in sections opened by the embassies of the Republic of Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u92	And consulates.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u93	...found under the full control of the Bulgarian state institutions. Otherwise, we are serving an undemocratic regime, which unfortunately has no chance of democratising soon, all the more so that there is a change of the Constitution in the Republic of Turkey, and this change is a strengthening in legislative terms of the sole regime.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u94	It's a hole, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u95	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Mr. Enchev, we are not talking here about this country or that state. We are talking about the possibility for Bulgarian citizens abroad to be able to vote calmly, freely. The Bulgarian State, after forcing them to exercise their right to vote, to create all the necessary conditions for them to be able to exercise their constitutional right. When were the Bulgarian sections, wherever they were, not under the control of the Bulgarian state?! When were there any sections where there wasn't a representative either of the consulate or of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has always posted its representatives everywhere in every section that is revealed abroad. You can check it out and you'll see for yourself. So stop spreading rumors and lies about that there almost were sections somewhere where there were no representatives of the Bulgarian state. Again, I repeat: and the European Court of Human Rights categorically ruled that Bulgaria has violated the European Convention on Human Rights by means of the Constitutional Court, which annulled the votes of thousands of Bulgarian citizens in the Republic of Turkey in 2009. This is the clear proof that Europe does not accept such arguments of your own. Dear colleagues of IMRO, I do not know for a fact who is with whom, but we have seen that thanks to your experience with the National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria you have been able to enter this Parliament. But, as they say, you are indeed led by the Turkish proverb: [[Noise and lines from PF.]] You are always looking for someone to get you into parliament, precisely because neither Macedonia nor Moldova nor Romania nor Ukraine nor Bulgaria alone can you get enough votes to jump the four percent barrier. You always need a carrier rocket, but if you continue this way, this way you can harm our countrymen abroad, for whichever carrier you attach to the next parliament, you will still not be able to enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u96	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part in the texts discussed? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs to create a new para. 2 in § 7, which changes art. 11 by importer with content: The formation of polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria is not allowed. We vote... [[Heckling]] You're not listening to what I'm saying! Vote 181 MPs: 134 against 36, abstention 11. [[Applause from PF.]] The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u97	Madam President, I request a re-voting procedure. Colleagues were just entering the room when we stopped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u98	Revoting, coworkers! [[Heckling]] And the consulates! Colleagues, in some of the texts under the "Diplomatic representations" are understood including the "consulsary", but in other texts of the Law goes the "diplomatical" and "diplomatical". I read the text together for more clarity so we wouldn't question each other, and you made a procedural proposal for an addition, Mr. Kirilov. Vote 182 MPs: 139 against 35, abstention 8. [[Applause from PF.]] The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, in view of the outcome of this vote, a new para has been created. 2, which excludes para. 2 by importer, which is why I will read how we vote after the adopted decision § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. A new para is being created. 2: No polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria are allowed. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. We are voting § 7 by importer with the adopted decision on a new version of para. 2. Vote 173 MPs: for 145, against 27, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am making it clear that we are talking about § 7 by importer, but by the numbering of the Commission and the report this should be § 6. The final texts will have the last word on the numbering of the paragraphs, as they change in the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. However, Madam President, honourable Members, in view of the previous vote here comes the order for proposals for editorial changes in art. 13, para. 3, which, in view of the vote, and para. 3, and para. 2, and para. Art. 4 of art. 13 should be cancelled. In this situation and in view of, again, I say, the vote taken, I propose that Paragraph 8 be repealed. 2, 3 and 4 of art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u100	Could you read the whole article? 13 what it says now under the Election Code!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u101	"Competence body for forming sections Art. 13. (1) In the selection of MPs as President and Vice President of the Republic and Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, the heads of diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria shall form polling stations outside the country subject to the legislation of the country concerned. (2) (The one that I say should be dismissed) The heads of diplomatic and consular representations shall determine the location of the polling stations outside the country on the basis of the territorial distribution of the Bulgarian community in the respective place. (3) (Which should also be removed) Organizations of the Bulgarian citizens in the relevant place may make proposals for the location of the polling stations outside the country to the heads of diplomatic and consular representations. The proposal shall be made no later than 25 days before the election day. Here our add-on was:.. is published immediately on the website of the respective diplomatic and consular missions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u102	And now you're suggesting dropping out of art. 13 of the whole al. 2 and para. 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u103	And four. I'm reading al. 4 which will also have to be dropped: The heads of diplomatic and consular missions may determine the location of the polling stations outside the country on the basis of the proposals under para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u104	- What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u105	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Kirilov! I think it's al. 2 is not relevant to what we applied and can remain. Rather, it should only be al. 3 and 4 drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u106	Second line? A hole, Mr. Kirilov, by Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u107	I repeat, al. 3 establish the possibility for the heads of diplomatic and consular representations to determine the location of the polling stations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u108	The line was for al. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u109	Well, that's right for al. Two, I'm talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u110	But you said "al."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u111	I'm sorry, I meant al. 2. Given that, by the previous vote, we have established that polling stations can only be opened in diplomatic and consular representations, there is no possibility to determine here another location that is consistent with the territorial distribution of the community in the relevant place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u112	Any other MPs? Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u113	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I could not understand in § 7 why we did not vote on the editorial proposals and also the text in the report itself, where a new para is being created. 2: In the Member States of the European Union, polling stations may be formed for the holding of elections for MPs, for President and for representatives of the European Parliament in accordance with the procedure laid down in para. 1. In the other countries, the vote can only be carried out in sections formed in the diplomatic representations of Bulgaria. We also did not vote on the editorial changes that have been made in this House. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u114	Mr. Ananiev, a little further down the report there is a proposal to create a new second paragraph: No polling stations outside the territory of the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria are allowed. This became a text adopted for the new para. 2 in § 7 by the will of the majority in the National Assembly. There is no way to put to the vote the importing text what you are proposing, as the other text has already been voted on. There is no al. 2 by importer, after we have voted a new version of para. 2. [[Extreme lines aside from the microphones by the MP Nastimir Ananiev.]] To speak, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u115	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! No wonder the Reformation Bloc colleagues didn't understand. I hope only they did not understand, because, honourable colleagues especially from GERB, you will forget about the votes from Pamplona, from Palma de Mallorca, from Liverpool and so on, from dozens and dozens of cities in Europe, North America, from which you received thousands of votes in the last elections. It's just that there won't be any sections after this text you've adopted. Madam President, this text draws a huge number of changes to the Election Code, dedicated to order, the way of forming sections outside the diplomatic and consular offices of the Republic of Bulgaria. Whole sections of the Election Code are devoted to this issue. After the vote, which we have just witnessed, all of this needs to be reviewed carefully, because otherwise we risk making significant gaps and errors from here on in the adoption of the amendments to the Election Code. Madam President, on this basis, in order to allow the Legal Committee to review and make any changes that follow from the text voted just now, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the debate on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u116	A reverse opinion? I won't. Colleagues, there has been a procedural proposal from Mr. Kazak to postpone the point on which a second vote is taking place at the moment, namely on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. We are voting on this proposal by Mr. Kazak. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 141 MPs: 35 against 80, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Is there any other statements under § 8 by importer, including on Mr. Kirilov's proposals for dropping out of art. 13 in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Kirilov § 8 by importer to be made with the following wording: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 are repealed. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 145 MPs: 117, against 23, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. This becomes the relevant paragraph of the Commission report. Mr. Kirilov, § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u117	According to § 9 "A proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafizov" § 9 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 9. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Christian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Daniel Kirilov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the beginning is added under the terms of art. The number of sections in each place is added after the words of the places and a third sentence is created: "In elections for members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections are formed only in the Member States of the European Union. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 A sentence third is created: In elections for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, such sections are formed only in Member States of the European Union. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is leaving the hall.]] Madam President, again in view of the vote taken in the text of art. 14 should remain only t. 1 and in the following version: The election sections outside the country are formed where there is diplomatic or consular representation in the presence of not less than 20 voters.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u118	A t. 2 for changes in c. 4 to fall?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u120	And the condition of election for Members of the European Parliament to be only in Member States of the European Union? Colleagues, I propose that these texts, which relate to the decision adopted, be postponed. They certainly need to be examined. Let's move on to those that don't need editing. Make a procedural proposal which are the texts related to Mr. Julian Angelov's adopted proposal to postpone them and start working on others. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Yeah, well, we have to say where we're starting now. Tell them what paragraph. Give the next chapter of the general chapter and let's save the paragraphs of this chapter for later.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u121	Madam President, that's how I would have handled it. Let me suggest that we proceed from § 12 on the report concerning the next Chapter 3 of art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u122	Paragraph 12, Article 18, is already the type of vote. Colleagues, the procedural proposal is to postpone voting on paragraphs 9 to 11 including by importer to be refined in relation to the adopted decision of the National Assembly. I put this procedural proposal to the vote. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u123	Paragraph 12. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: ...... 12 to The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: "12" is out. " 12" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall take place with the relevant numbering: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The preparation and organisation of elections shall be carried out by the electoral committees, the executive bodies and the other institutions, in accordance with their powers under this Code. The executive bodies and other institutions shall assist the electoral committees in the provision of electoral papers and other materials, as well as activities of an organisational and technical nature. The provision of paper ballots, machine voting and related activities shall be entrusted and supervised by the Central Election Commission. The Council of Ministers shall coordinate the activities of the executive bodies in relation to the substantive -technical provision of the elections. 2. The creation of para. 5. The Chief Prosecutor and the Minister of Interior shall establish joint headquarters (teams) for operational interaction in the fight against crimes related to the electoral process. The headquarters (squads) are operating during the entire election campaign. An error has been made with the membership of the pre-election.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u124	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is identical to the proposal of Mr. Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, for dropping § 12 by importer. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 108 MPs: 11 against 82 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for changes to art. 18 according to the report, with the corresponding renumbering of § 12 by importer. We shall vote on § 12 by importer in the version of the Commission for changes in art. 18. Vote 112 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u125	Paragraph 13. Proposal by the MPs Hristian Mitev and Petar Slavov according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become a paragraph with the relevant numbering: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 19th para No notary certification is required for the documents and papers under the code, except in the cases specified therein.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u126	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 13 by importer for changes to art. 19, where para. is created. 3 which takes place with the corresponding new numbering of the Commission report. We are voting on the Commission's version. Vote 109 MPs: for 108, no objection, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u127	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: In § 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 is created a new para. 4 with the following text: Each voter after their initial registration and entry on the electoral lists, according to art. 23, para. 3 of the Election Code receives a unique identification number -WIN, which is intended solely for use in elections and referendums, which is assigned to the chosen card issued for this purpose. The following subparagraphs of art. 23 becomes respectively. 5 and para. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, Valeri Simeonov and Danail Kirilov § 14 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u128	Statements, coworkers? Mr. Anastasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal has been made in connection with over 1 million dead people, as experts say, on the electoral lists. By giving this unique identification number it is intended to make clear how real Bulgarian citizens are going to vote. This number will very easily be given and will be obtained in the respective municipality, will be created through the EGRAON. In this way, we will eliminate the influence of the so-called dead souls, which questions the election results very often. Secondly, with the introduction of this number, in which no personal data will be available, the possibility of Speculation with personal data will be dropped, with the EGN - as it is written later, and as it has been formulated in the Election Code, to insert the EGN - which is personal to every Bulgarian citizen. You know, with the U.N.N.A., there's a lot of speculation going on. There is no political formation in this room, and not only in this room to participate in the elections, and it is not fined for someone who has signed and used foreign ANS -- by starting at the right, going through GERB, passing through DPS and reaching our group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u130	There is!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u131	There isn't one. I won't! The Personal Data Protection Committee I'm gonna get you out... I don't think we should talk in the hall. I will show you the data, as I have faced this problem several times, as still the leader of our party, I have a few months left until November. The fines imposed on each of the formations are not few. Most importantly, we do not process the UNN - the Bulgarian citizens in this way. 'Cause, you know, agree that these lists and U.N.N.N.A. -- our lists are going everywhere. That's the two things. First of all, to eliminate dead souls by doing it once and each received a small card of value, by the way, is a penny. Six million people, one penny at a time, 60 thousand. lv. They're gonna spend it. One card with this number to know, and with this number and ID card goes on election day. Very easy. And the second one, don't use the N.N.N.N.N. -- This is our proposal, which, by the way, we do for the third time when we see changes in the Election Code. All these years the Bulgarian Social Democrats from Coalition BSP left Bulgaria are extremely consistent because we want to be for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u132	A line to Mr. Anastasov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u133	Thank you, Madam President. I will be very brief so that I do not take a line of pre-talking and explain to him that the parties from the coalition "Patriotic Front" have not been fined for unauthorized use of the UNN. So when you speak, be precise and do not put everyone under the common denominator of various abuses committed by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u134	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There will be a vote, after which the mandatory one hour between two interruptions will expire and I will announce the break, but now I invite the MPs to the House. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Anastasov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 104 MPs: 14 against 57 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer, and proposes that § 14 by importer be rejected. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 105 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I am announcing a 30-minute recess until 12:00 p.m. and this time is working for the Legal Commission, which should comply with the deferred texts in relation to the earlier vote we have taken. Colleagues in place and do their job! (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u135	Colleagues, the meeting is ongoing. Members of the National Assembly, please enter the Chamber. Quaestors, invite the MPs. Mr. Kirilov, §15 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u136	According to § 15 a proposal from the National Representative Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafizov, § 15 to be dropped. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u137	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u138	Madam President, honourable Members! This is the first text of the proposals for active registration. We from the Reformation Block, as I hear there are other proposed ones, have long recorded the active registration in our Programme and I am glad that it has also been able to enter the Programme Declaration with Party GERB and with the other parties that support the majority so that we can reach this point where there is an opportunity to accept the active registration as a way to clear the electoral lists of one million dead people. Dear colleagues, you have all read the research, you have all read the analyses and you probably know that five years ago data say that there are over one million dead people on the electoral list, and most likely they have increased in recent times as such analyses have not been done. As an example I will give: only in Dupnitsa municipality, which is a medium-sized municipality for the size of Bulgaria, and one of 266 municipalities in Bulgaria, were found about 10,000 dead people, i.e. people who are actually present on the electoral lists but have not voted for a long time or are simply not among the living. And with these people, fellow Members, there is the greatest manipulation of the elections that we know. It is to be voted on their behalf by an unknown who, these people to join the electoral lists, they to be signed at the end of the day and on their behalf to be voted and put on the ballot. If we accept that if on behalf of half of these people are voted, that is, on behalf of 500 thousand people is voted, this, honourable Members, is almost the second largest party in Bulgaria. And we want here with the proposal for active registration precisely this severe vice of the Bulgarian democratic system to be deleted so that we can boast among the adoption of this Election Code that it will solve many of the problems in the Bulgarian electoral process. What do we suggest? We propose that within three and a half months before the elections there will be an explanatory campaign, after which citizens can actively register, that is to say that they also go to the municipal administration or to consular and diplomatic representations to say that they want to vote actively in the next elections, personally, so that they are included in the electoral lists. This, of course, can also be done online, as was done last census in Bulgaria, so that people can easily and conveniently participate without having obstructions by any, then electoral lists, based on these applications, be drawn up so that they automatically drop all those who do not have the opportunity to go and actively register, simply because they are disinterested by the elections. And these people won't end up on election lists like they voted. I hear that accepting passive deregistered is kind of a partial solution to the problem. Unfortunately, I'm not going to agree with that statement. Passive deregistered does not solve the problem of the people on behalf of whom the vote is voted. I would like to state the most responsible of this tribune. It does not solve it, I repeat it once again, because through the passive de-registered process the process of de-registered begins only after the election day is over, it is precisely then that is the problem before the election day and on the election day is the problem of voting on a foreign name, so, colleagues, I urge you to support this and a number of other texts that follow, as we have spoken, as we have agreed. We hope that active registration will enter the Election Code so that the next elections will begin a cleansing of dead souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u139	A line to Mr. Delchev? I won't. Do other MPs want the floor? The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u140	Dear Madam President, please, before you put the text to the vote, do a roll call check. I see some of the colleagues are not in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u141	Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova - Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova - Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - absent Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - absent Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Ivanova Kotseva - absent Irena Lyubenova Sokolova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - absent Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova - Gancheva - absent Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva - Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shetreva Belova - absent Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova - Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussein Abu Melih - absent Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - here Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - absent Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - here Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - here Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - here Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional entry: Angel Naydenov, Valentin Nikolov, Daniela Daritkova, Irena Sokolova, Stanislav Ivanov, Valentin Pavlov, Stefan Danailov and Tsveta Karayancheva. We have a quorum, moving on. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 15 by importer. Please vote. Colleagues, we just did a roll call check and the quorum is over 130 people, and they are currently voting 111! [[crowd cheering in the hall.]] They voted 114 MPs: 100 against 11, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u142	Under § 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Anastasov: In § 16, Article 16 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following paragraphs shall be added: 25a, para. 7 is changed and the following species is The refusals to register or issue a unique identification number (WIN) shall be notified and appealed in accordance with art. 45. The other texts in § 16 remain the same. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u143	Statements? He has the word Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I will try to justify why it is necessary to introduce this ENI single identification number. If we want to remove more than one million dead people, we will make a one-time, one-time "every Bulgarian citizen has this number, only for elections and referendums only. Then it will be dropped, I stress once again, the possibility for citizens to give their personal data, including you, so that the UNN - can appear anywhere on all lists. This number won't be personal. It will be issued automatically for every Bulgarian citizen. Do you want to drop over a million dead people? That's the question! I would stress that if there is valor, there is strength, if the man is strong, Mr. Bayraktarov will come and excuse me. I stress once again: all parties in this Chamber have been fined by the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data. And when he came here and said I lied, it wasn't true. You're lying in this case because here's the CDC's decision. I'm not gonna quote him. [[Replying from PF.]] Okay, if you're holding this much, I'll quote it. And you will come to apologize from here, from this tribune, because a Bulgarian social democrat does not lie when he speaks! [[Laughter]] Here's the document. [[Shows document.]] You can accuse me of emotion, of everything, but I've never let myself lie in the stands of the National Assembly! From this high tribune, never! You won't hear a lie from me. I read: A decision on complaints against the political party "National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria." Decision No P-943 of 16 October 2015 I'm not gonna read you the whole decision. I'll read the ending. If you want, I'll even read a few things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u145	Colleague, decide what you're gonna do after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u146	I will read it after all, because there is obviously a great deal of interest in it: The applicants claim that after the consultation of the website of the Central Election Commission that their personal data is included in the list of persons supporting the registration of the Political Party, the National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria (National Front for the participation of the elections held in 2014 for members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria). I am reading the decision at the end: supposed from the above, on the basis of art. 10, para. 1, t. Article 7 in conjunction with Article 7 38, para. 2 of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Commission has decided: 2. Announcement of complaint No G -271 of 17 April 2014 by the CEA, filed against the Political Party "National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria" of 28 April 2014 by VKI and G -435 of 23 April 2014 by the CEA. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 a sanction of a certain amount is imposed. By reading this, I want to make it clear that everyone is fined, from GERB to the smallest party. There are these solutions. Why should we allow dishonest people? I don't blame the Party on the National Front for the liberation of Bulgaria. [[shouts and lines from PF]] . National Front for the Salvation of Bulgaria. Or liberation, the same thing. You can rename it, I'll be your godfather. I don't blame you, but these are people who use other people's names, put them on the list. Even sometimes they are done deliberately to sanction the parties concerned. So I suggest that we enter this EIN single identification number. It's so simple! It won't cost the state anything. There is no Peter Kanev to tell you to print this card for six million people, it takes 60 thousand. lv. We're not going to make the process expensive, and the funds will be given once. By the way, it's in Greece. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. Every citizen of Greece has such a number when he turns 18 and takes his personal data and documents.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u147	What's the N.N.N.N.N.?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u148	Well, it's personal, and you get sanctioned, and when it's A.I.N.N.N., you don't get sanctioned. So I would recommend that we do this re-entry one more time deeply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u149	- What's the line? First line, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The line will be short in two parts. Unfortunately, in its first part, it will be a general agreement with Mr. Anastasov's reasoning. Yeah, he's got a good reason for that. My disagreement is that you still disclose data from the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data which has been appealed in court. There is still no final solution. You were also right in the fact that many parties are subjected to such a form of racketeering, in the sense they send you two - three people to sign the lists and sign them and then refuse. It's part of not a very clean political game. In our case, we don't have a Supreme Court ruling yet, so it can't be accepted as an established fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u151	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u152	I thank Mr. Simeonov for the support of the first part. For the second part, because you were not, you gave a press conference together with the representatives of GERB, you did not hear when I said that the CDC had fined. It's a fact. Such a decision has been imposed...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u153	He said it didn't come into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u154	...and that this decision... You will listen to me, Madam President. You're a respected lawyer, and you'll understand what I'm going to say. This thing is uploaded to KZLD's page. Anyone can see him there. I just printed it from there. You don't think I carry these things in my pocket. I went upstairs, pressed the buttons, and all the parties come out. It's a simple, simple button to do a background check on the parties' names. That's it! And you can see that all the parties in this room have been sanctioned. And not just in this room. There's a lot of parties out there. So these are the facts. And when the facts speak, you know who's silent. So once again, thank you for your support. I hope others will support me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u155	Any other MPs? Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u156	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, after the vote on the last text, I have no doubt that the proposal for active registration will also be rejected and all the following. Therefore, I will not waste too much parliamentary time, I just want to say that in this Chamber two thirds, that more than the parliamentary groups have either supported or offered active registration, so the votes are at least bizarre and disappointing in Bulgaria from the Reformation Block. We hope that with this Election Code we will be able to clear many of the vices, from the manipulations of the electoral process. Active registration was a way of doing this, unfortunately, was rejected. I will call for more wisdom in the future because other important decisions are yet to come. We will continue to fight millions, hundreds of thousands of names not to be used by other people to vote in favour of certain parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u157	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Iliya Iliev has the floor of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u158	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the introduction of a unique identification number would make the voting procedure much more complicated and even more difficult in general for voters. It's not enough that we want to make them vote, now we have to make them do it and make them do it. This would create a very complex picture in people, in my opinion, and would generally make the election process difficult at all. Such a thing would require a very serious campaign for a preliminary, informative one, which would make it very difficult for the administration to deal with such a process, would result in a lot of budget expenditure, and it is not clear at all whether it will have any positive effect. We've got a Grao agency, she's got her lists, she's got her data on all the voters. In my opinion, that would only make the electoral system difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u159	- What's the line? I won't. Mr. Mithat Metin has a say in this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u160	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am also opposed to this text. At the meeting of the Legal Commission, we did not hear the opinion of the Central Election Commission on this matter, as well as the representatives of the State in the part for the financial justification of this unique identification number. We don't know how much money it's gonna cost the state, as the unspeakable one said. It is one thing to pay 1 million, another to earn 8 million, and quite separately it is to pay about twelve, thirteen million. As a financial commitment to the creation of this identification code, all these are state expenditures, budget expenditures and money that come directly out of the pocket of the Bulgarian taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u161	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Anastasov, which the Commission does not support. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. They voted 112 MPs: 8 against 71, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal, which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 16 by importer be rejected. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I propose on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to adopt a decision to hold an extraordinary plenary session on 26 April, Tuesday, from 11.00 to 19:00 on the agenda: Point one: Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted on the first vote on 10 March 2016 with importers: Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs of 8 April 2015; Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs of 20 May 2015; Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs of 22 July 2015; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs of 5 November 2015; Miho Mihov and a group of MPs of 16 February 2016; Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs of 18 February 2016; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov from 19 February 2016; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs of 22 February 2016; Dimitar Delchev and a group of MPs of MPs of the second draft, from the same date 22 February 2016; Tsvetan Tsanov and a group of MPs of 22 February 2016; Korniya Ninova and a group of 23 February 2016. The second vote is continued. Please vote on Tuesday, April 26 from 11:00 to 7:00. Vote 117 MPs: 95, against 10, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u162	Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 61, para. 2 On behalf of Parliamentary Group BSP left Bulgaria we want a holiday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u163	Between two interruptions in the plenary sitting according to our Rules, there must be a minimum of one hour of time. The previous interruption was at 12:00 p.m. There is not an hour, which is why the meeting continues. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u164	A proposal from the MPs Lutvi Mestan, Mariana Georgieva and Hussein Hafuzov § 17 to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 17 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u165	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission proposal which does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 by importer be rejected. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u166	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become the relevant paragraph. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 28 the following additions are made: "1." In para. 3 after the words after the presentation of the................................................................. in one of the institutions under para...................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. The creation of para. 4. supplier, who, after the expiry of the term under para. 2 has been admitted to the medical establishment, home or other specialised institution, shall be added to the electoral list by the selection panel after submitting an identity document and a declaration on a model that it has not voted and shall not vote in any other place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u167	Statements? I won't. We shall vote on § 18 by importer, which shall receive a new numbering accordingly, in the version of the Commission's report on changes in art. 28. Vote 98 MPs: 93, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u168	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become the relevant paragraph. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become the paragraph with the corresponding numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u169	I put to the vote paragraphs 19 and 20 by importer which are fully supported by the Commission and receive a corresponding new numbering of the report. Vote 98 MPs: for 89, no objection, abstention 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u170	Paragraph 21. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 21. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become the paragraph with the corresponding numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u171	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs for the removal of § 21 by importer. The Commission does not support it. They voted 89 MPs: for 4, against 59, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 21 by importer. They voted 99 MPs: 91, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u172	Paragraph 22. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 22: "1." the introductory sentence is created: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 2. The current text of § 22 shall, in the case of the corresponding editorial change in its beginning, become the following: 1. 3. create t. 2 and 3: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. create a new para. 2 and para. 3: The lists of persons who said they would vote outside the country shall be drawn up by countries and places, in the event of no less than 40 voters voting in the respective locality and shall serve for the purpose of forming polling stations under art. 14, p. 2 et c. 4 of the Election Code. In the event of at least 20 applications for voting in the territory of one State, although the requirements of art. 14, p. 2 of the Election Code is created a common electoral section in the diplomatic or consular representation of the Republic of Bulgaria in this country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. the current para. 2 becomes para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u173	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 16 against 55, 28 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 22 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 85 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u174	Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: ..created § 22a: "Sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 32a: Art. 32a (1) Where only one section is created for a country or place in accordance with art. 14 of the voters applying under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 a selection list shall be drawn up. Voters included in this list when voting in this polling section shall not submit a declaration under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3. The selection committees shall receive a form on a electoral list, according to a template adopted by the CEC. (2) For the sections of art. 14, p. 3 does not create a electoral list. (3) Voter included in the electoral list under para. 1 shall be deleted from the electoral list at its permanent address in the Republic of Bulgaria and entered in the list of deleted persons who cannot be added to the election day in this electoral section. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u175	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u176	Madam President, honourable Members! As you can see, our proposals are in the direction of introducing a better order for the vote abroad, and given that we have adopted some important previous texts, I am withdrawing para. 2 or rather, to be regarded as an editorial amendment. 2 drop out, as there is no way that it has an application to the texts that we adopted an hour ago perhaps. That's why Al. Paragraph 2 shall be deleted and paragraph 2 shall be replaced by the following: 3 to be renumbered for para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u177	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. First, I vote on Mr. Georgiev's proposal... In fact, he withdrew al. 2, in which case the proposal to create a new art. 32a will be two paragraphs. Alinea 1 stays under the text, but al. 3 becomes para. 2. Isn't that right? The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 96 MPs: 21, against 54, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u178	There is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs § 23 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: In § 23, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 after the words "al." This is the first amendment of the sentence: Any voter who is not listed under Art. 32a shall be added by the selection panel on the election day on the additional page of the list or shall be entered in the electoral list form after submitting an identity document and a declaration on the model that he meets the conditions to choose and that he has not voted or will not vote in another place. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: ????????????????? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: In elections for President and Vice-President of the Republic, for MPs and for Members of the European Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, the voter also presents a declaration on a model that he has not voted and will not vote elsewhere in the same elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u179	Statements? Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Although the meaning of this text is purely technical and somehow corrects elections abroad on election day, let us still be guided by the following. The declaration by which we oblige the voter to declare that he will not vote elsewhere relates to travel costs, to missions, because nowhere has it been mentioned that this declaration is filed on election day.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u181	Any lines to Mr. Metin? I won't. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u182	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I will be very brief. We maintain our proposal and believe that it is more correct than what is proposed as a text by the Commission. That's why the declaration...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u183	You want us to back him up?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u184	Yes, we want to support him. Since the declaration to be submitted by the person should be modelled and eligible to choose and that he has not voted and will not vote elsewhere. I think that this declaration that we are proposing is better than the text that is being proposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u185	Any lines to Mr. Georgiev? I won't. Mr. Iliya Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, we propose that this point be dropped because we believe that filling in such a declaration is absolutely unnecessary. There are lists where voters have them listed with the three names, with the UNN. What does the voter have to file a declaration that he will not vote elsewhere? If he votes elsewhere, does that mean that he won't be detected, that he has voted elsewhere? I think this is totally contradicting itself because there is control, every voter can only vote once and in one place. There's a system that monitors all these things. I believe that submitting such a declaration will only make administratively difficult the whole electoral process even on election day and would create conditions for more delay and only administrative obstacles that will not serve anyone, because in the lists voters appear, there are them with the three names, with the UNN. So I suggest that, my fellow Members, that we drop this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u187	Any lines to Mr. Iliev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I am going out, I will be very brief, I am pleased with the decision in the proposal to change the conviction and respectively the three-member composition of the Administrative Court of Sofia...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u189	I think you're speaking differently. We are currently at Paragraph 17 of the report, on page 18, where we are talking about a declaration. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u190	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs § 23 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 17 against 60 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 99 MPs: 18, against 61, abstention 20. The motion is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for the version of § 23 by importer with a corresponding numbering of the report. Vote 96 MPs: 89 against 7, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u191	A proposal by Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to be dismissed under § 24. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u192	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u193	Honourable Members, what is the point of this proposal to be taken out of the text of the members of the committees on which a certificate of voting is issued in another place to drop the words of the Municipal Committees......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If this paragraph is adopted, we will essentially deprive some of the members of the municipal committees to be able to vote where they are doing their job. [[Reply from rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]] Okay. I still want to think about the text before we vote on it. I consider this proposal to be incorrect and that it should not be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u194	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Please vote on the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 21, Against 55, abstention 10. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 24, which is fully supported by the Commission and will become the relevant paragraph in its report. We vote § 24 by importer. They voted 91 MPs: for 76, against 15, no abstentions. Paragraph 24 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u195	A proposal by Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs to be dismissed under § 25. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs: the following point is inserted after point 13a (Commission ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 a new sentence is created second: The entry into the electoral list on its current address is a condition for the exercise of the voter's right to vote in the respective types of elections produced in the section. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's test and proposes that § 25 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u196	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 20, against 51, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 25 by importer. Vote 95 MPs: 78 against 14, abstention 3. The motion to reject § 25 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u197	According to § 26, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs is amended as follows: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 3 at the end of the text, after the words "THELC (NELK)) is added "or medical epicrisis issued by a medical institution which indicates that the person has physical disabilities which do not allow him to leave his home and exercise his right to vote in an electoral room." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become a paragraph of corresponding numbering: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 37, para. 1 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u198	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I think that the proposal of my colleague Mihail Mikov is absolutely logical and it would be good to support him. If the voter is really difficult and cannot go not only when presenting a TELK certificate, but also when presenting a medical epicrisis issued by a medical institution, it is normal for this document to serve as evidence and to be taken into account as a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u200	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to thank my fellow Member for supporting this proposal, which is, in fact, the following. Just pointing out a TELK or NELK document is too casual. There are thousands of life hypotheses in which the person may be unable to vote, and in these cases we should provide him with the exercise of his electoral rights. That's what we're offering, nothing more. Let us be less casuistic, consider the hypotheses that can happen in life, and give this opportunity for people to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u202	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Georgiev, there was a debate on this in the Commission. I would even say that there was a certain attitude that this proposal of BSP colleagues to receive support. However, the vote did not receive support for the following reasons. Now the document required to vote with a mobile electoral box is a document from TelK and NELK. Colleagues suggest that this can be any epicrisis. I'll repeat my arguments. I feel inadequately competent to read a medical document with such content and to be able to assess what is the degree of inability of the person to participate normally in the electoral process. I also think that members of the sectional election committees will be even less prepared than those who have special medical education. Let us leave this requirement and not liberalize to such an extent the documentation with which it can be allowed to walk, figuratively speaking, the mobile electoral box, because it may be that with a broken hand written in medical terms, the person cannot vote, and it could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? Are there any lines to Mr. Chavdar Georgiev? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman! That's an active text, by the way, from the first code. It is also now an active text by the so-called Code Maya Manolova. You took this approach to the mobile polling section and left it the same. I don't see any reason for anyone to present the epicrisis now. It could be for migraines written in Latin and members of the SIC to decide to send the mobile polling section. At the same time, people who really need it because they are in a difficult situation are unable to benefit from this opportunity. I don't see what has changed so much since 2013 when you adopted the Code, because it 95% is the old Code, a little bit overturned, complicated silicone, that you are now changing this principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u206	Any other lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I suggest we support Mr. Georgiev. I want to give you an example: a 70-year-old pensioner who's immobilized, has had some kind of illness and then has to appear at Telk to prove this immobility? In my opinion, it is necessary, after a doctor's examination, with the relevant document that he will submit to the electoral committee, to obtain the right to vote. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov, although that was not a line. Mr. Georgiev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would say the opposite when it comes to ensuring the exercise of electoral rights, we really need to be liberal, not casual. As difficult as it is for the Commission to read a document of Telk and NELK, it will be as difficult to read the corresponding epicrisis. Plus, we suggest the following. See what the text is: a medical epicrisis issued by a hospital that shows that the person has physical disabilities that do not allow him to leave the home. There the medical examiner will indicate whether there is a possibility or not the person will... [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] This will be written in Bulgarian, not Latin. I think it's better to give this opportunity, not prevent people from voting. This is in the interests of democracy after all. As for the so-called Maya Manolova Code, don't attack him so much. [[GERB lines.]] This code was much better than the previous code of Fidosova and it was imperative that it be accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u210	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! You all know that in order to issue a decision to TelK or NELK, a short period of time is needed. However, if he coincides with a certain type of election, what happens to this citizen? In practice, he will be deprived of the opportunity to vote. Moreover, you have introduced the so-called... vote.......................................................................................... On the one hand, the citizen is obliged to vote, on the other hand, however, he will be prevented. As for the issuing of such a decision from a medical establishment, there is no big difference between this epicrisis and the epicrisis, the decision of TELK. Inside they are equally described in both Latin and Bulgarian terms. Here we have clearly suggested that colleague Georgiev quotes him: "Who points out that the person is physically disabled, who does not allow him to leave his home." Since he is not allowed to leave his home, and he is obliged to vote in fear of being removed from the election list for pό next vote, then it would be good to give him such an opportunity. Here the possibility of documents that are needed is really liberalized in order for the mobile polling section to reach the person. But once you've put in the mandatory vote, give him a chance and don't introduce any more administrative obstacles so he can't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. A line? National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov, dear colleagues! We don't have to waste time here talking to people who don't understand matter. I'll be quoting what I mean in a moment. The main thing I want to say, Mr. Popov, is, first of all, that if in the second election the person cannot vote, then his right is revoked and then he is deleted from the lists. [[DPS lines.]] And he will be able to proceed further to his respective actions to regain that right. The main thing, Mr. Popov, is that the epicrisis records the diagnosis, and the degree of damage is in TELK. So let's not mix the notions, let's not waste people's time, and let's not say coworkers who aren't in the matter. That's the main thing. Thank you. [[Radio, laughter from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u214	Maybe a doctor should take an attitude. Are there any other lines to the MP Philip Popov? I won't. Mr. Popov, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, it is true, it is difficult for me to understand this matter, especially with regard to the carrying of some sacks with some ballots, it is specific. [[Voices from GERB: "E - e - e - e "]] It's about the election again, isn't it? In his statement here... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u216	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u217	In my speech, I said that having obliged citizens to go and exercise their right to vote to say how much they like you or dislike you, it would be a more liberal opportunity for the citizen to say... Because when a decision is issued to TelK or NELK, I repeat, it takes a very large period of time when a citizen may not be able to leave his home. Then there's no way...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u218	He can vote with a moving section from home.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u219	Then there is no way he can go and vote in the relevant sectional election committee. She has to come to him and vote with a mobile polling section. That's it. It is good to read the rest of the Code and then go out and have some senseless arguments here with arguments that are absolutely untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u220	How can they be untenable?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u221	There's a moving section.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u222	They're untenable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u223	Any other MPs? Colleagues, that kind of dialogue on the sidelines! Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Popov! Are there any other MPs? Mr. Mithat Metin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is ultimately about the exercise of the right to vote. It is about this particular voter being included in the list for the mobile section and this mobile section on the election day to spend, not to spend, but to do its state work not at 30, but to say at 50 addresses. In the end, it is about exercising the right to vote, and the mobile selection committee to do its duty and work. Once we have an obligation and the previous speakers said: "We have an obligation to exercise the right to vote, I cannot understand, given that it is written in the epicrisis issued by the medical institution about the disease itself and the inability itself, and it is proved and certified in the epicrisis, I do not see why we as legislators are being hostile to the electoral and we do not give him the right to exercise his vote. That's what I'm talking about. In each municipality, a colleague, we are talking perhaps about 20 - 30 voters, not more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u225	It's about 200.300 sometimes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u226	First row! - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote the proposal of Mr Karadayi and a group of MPs for the dismissal of § 26. The Commission does not support this proposal. 90 MPs voted: 13, against 64, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. They voted 89 MPs: 17 against 49, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on § 26 by importer in the version of the Commission's report. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 91 MPs: 78 against 11, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u227	A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 27 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u228	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 27 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u229	A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop § 28. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of Members of the National Assembly......................................................................................... Three out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly................................................................................. One down. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become a paragraph of corresponding numbering: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 41, para. 2 the words "not including residence certificates and the date of registration specified therein' shall not be entered.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u230	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Mr. Karadayi's motion for the complete dismissal of § 28. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 91 MPs: 10, against 66, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on § 28 by importer in its version on the Commission's report on changes in art. 41, para. 2. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 6, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u231	A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 29 - is dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 29 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u232	Statements? I won't. I am voting on the Commission proposal, which does not support the text of the importer. We are voting for the rejection of § 29. Vote 98 MPs: 94, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u233	According to § 30, a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 30 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs - § 30 - is dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become a paragraph with a corresponding number: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 43, para. 1 sentence first after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u234	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of two groups of MPs... [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u235	The debate was closed. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u236	I take it I didn't see Mr. Georgiev. [[Noise and lines.]] I looked at the DPS block, didn't look at the left, so I take it Mr. Georgiev is right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u237	Madam President, honourable Members! We cannot bind the corrections to the list solely to those who detect any errors for themselves. Each of us has an interest in elections being democratic, honest, not having dead souls, as our colleagues in the Reformation bloc want, and so on, and for that we must not restrict this right. Anyone who sees irregularities in the electoral lists must have the right to request that they be corrected. That's why it's in this text. It is therefore not right to support the proposal, which will limit the possibility of allowing applications for amendments to the lists only if the person finds errors towards himself. Persons who do not exist, for example, must be allowed to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u238	A line? We're listening, Mr. Kirilov, line one.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u239	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, we specify that this proposal, as importers, has been made mainly because of the requirements of the OSCE and the Venice Commission, which wanted clarity on the question of who might want to remove incompletes and errors. They wanted to make it clear that this is the person to whom the error, ambiguity or incompleteness was made. On the contrary, it would mean asking you to be erased from the electoral list. This text, by the way, has been applied consistently so far without any problem even in the situations in which we had intense electoral tourism, in the settlements with three residents where you brought voters and wrote them down, even then we could not in any way challenge these lists, these entries. [[Replys on the left.]] And that is why we have made a special order and procedure in the Civil Registration Act, which will be referred to immediately after this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u240	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u241	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, by your logic phantoms are becoming invulnerable. Who on behalf of a phantom will submit an application? Explain to me. There's no way! Second, obviously you'll be waiting for a dead letter. The man died, he wants his neighbor or anyone there to be wiped out. You say, "You have no interest at all. This does not apply to you. Excuse me, I repeat: we are all interested in the elections being democratic, honest and the lists on which they will be voted, clear and there are no dead souls and phantoms in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u242	Do other Members of the National Assembly wish to take part? No. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Karadayi and a group of MPs identical to the proposal of Mr. Mikov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support these proposals. They voted 96 MPs: 13, against 62, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 30 by importer in its version on the Commission's report on changes in art. 43, para. 1. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 95 MPs: 85 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u243	Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in art. 405a.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u244	Proceed, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, okay, or you're gonna have to report art. 405a, just the Commission supports it in principle, but I have no editing. It's reflected in another systematic location. [[Heckling]] What should we vote on? That he's supported in principle? Then when we get there... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u245	By § 31...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u246	There's no time for him, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u247	According to § 31 "A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 31 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-04-22.u248	Statements? There is, but every statement is in five minutes, and we don't have that much, according to the clock. We will proceed with the debate on § 31 on Tuesday at 11:00, according to our decision for an extraordinary plenary session. Due to the expiry of the time set for today's plenary session, the next is an extraordinary meeting on 26 April, 2016, Tuesday, starting at 11.00, we continue with the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, closing the session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
