ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. Please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision on the basis of art. 45, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for holding an extraordinary plenary session on 26 July 2016, Tuesday, at 11:00 on the following agenda: Point one: Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 29 June 2016. The Legal Committee has completed its work on the second vote on the Bill. At any moment, the second reading report will be submitted and submitted to the Members of Parliament, which is why I ask you to support this proposal for the extraordinary plenary sitting, as well as the talks we have had with the Conference of Presidents on this matter. Voting mode. They voted 131 MPs: 106, against 10, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. According to our weekly programme, the first item for today is provided: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importers are Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glavchev and Rosen Petrov. A report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the first vote. Mr. Atanasov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u2	♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 654-01-93, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glauchev and Rosen Petrov on 19 July 2016. At an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on July 20, 2015, the Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television was discussed, No 654-01-93, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glauchev and Rosen Petrov. The bill was presented by one of the importers Slavcho Atanasov. In accordance with art. 55 of the Law on Radio and Television the management bodies of the Bulgarian National Radio, respectively the Bulgarian National Television are their management boards and general directors. The Director-General shall be elected by the Council for Electronic Media for a term of three years. The Management Boards of the Bulgarian National Radio, respectively of the Bulgarian National Television, consist of five members and are validated by the Electronic Media Council on a proposal from their Directors-General. The term of office of the board members shall also be three years old. With the provision of art. 66, para. 4 of the Law on Radio and Television the case is settled when the term of office of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Radio, respectively of the Bulgarian National Television and within the statutory period is not chosen a new Director-General, he will continue to exercise his powers until the election of a new Director-General. The proposed Bill provides that upon expiry of the term of office of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Radio, respectively of the Bulgarian National Television and no choice has been made by a new Director-General to extend the term of office and of the existing members of the Boards of Directors until the new Boards of Directors by the Council for Electronic Media under this Law. The Management Boards shall thus be given the opportunity to exercise their powers until the new Director-General takes office to propose a new composition of the Management Board concerned. This ensures functional stability and stability in the management of the Bulgarian National Radio and Bulgarian National Television in accordance with art. 55 of the Law on Radio and Television. After the discussion and the vote held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously, with 16 votes for the vote, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, No 654-01-93, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glauchev and Rosen Petrov on 19 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. On behalf of the importers, would you like to present the bill? In the report, you replicated the motives of the bill. The debate is open, colleagues. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Law on Radio and Television No 654-01-93, submitted by Slavcho Atanasov, Valeri Simeonov, Nayden Zelenogorski, Dimitar Glauchev and Rosen Petrov. Vote 128 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the draft be subject to a second vote at this sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u5	A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 125 MPs: 110 against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE To supplement the Law on Radio and Television (prom. DV, No. ...) § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 60th para is If, upon expiry of the term of office of the Director-General of BNR, respectively of BNT, the choice under art. 66, para. 1 has not been implemented and the provision of art. 1 shall apply. 66, para. 4, the members of the Boards of Directors of BNR, respectively of BNT, shall exercise their powers until the new Board of Directors of the Board of Electronic Media is confirmed. Final provision § 2. The Law shall enter into force from 5 August 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u7	Statements in the second vote? I won't. I put to the vote the Law on Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television together with its § 1 and 2 and the name of the division They voted 130 MPs: 112, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u8	Thank you, colleagues. With this, we avoided an opportunity on August 9th from the National Television...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u9	Mr. Atanasov, these statements during the debates and the debates. We don't have a procedural possibility after the Law's vote to make similar statements. According to the decision adopted yesterday, immediately following the conclusion of Parliament's legislative programme, which has just ended with the second reading draft votes, we move on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. We are expecting Mr. Donchev in plenary any minute, and until then we will perform the routine procedures. New questions for the period 15 " 21 July 2016': Asked by MPs Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev to Vezdi Rashidov, Minister of Culture, on the policy of the Ministry of Culture for financing the state cultural institutes carrying out activities in the field of performing arts. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 29 July 2016. Asked by MP Rumen Gechev to Vladislav Goranov, Minister of Finance, about a single shareholder company with state participation in the capital. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 21 July 2016. Written answers to service: - from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov; - from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev; - from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev to a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov to a question from MPs Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva to a question from the MPs Willi Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Methodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the MPs Vili Lilkov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Metodi Andreev; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - from the Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to five questions from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to three questions from the National Representative Nevin Hassan; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - from the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the MPs Dimitar Tanev, Yordan Andonov and Daniela Saveklieva; - from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - written answer from the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva to a question from the National Representative Philip Popov; - by the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Metodi Andreev; - by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev Tanev; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to 11 questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Mariana Boyadjieva; - from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - from the Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski. The current parliamentary control begins with the questions to Tomislav Donchev "Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy." First to develop its question, the people's representative Ayhan Etem on reducing funding from European funds due to the expected leaving of the European Union by Britain. We're listening, Mr. Etem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Britain's citizens voted in favour of the country's exit from the European Union. Undoubtedly, Britain's exit from the European Union will not go without consequences both for it and for a united Europe. The effects that such an act will have on European and global economic and financial processes will yet be taken into account and validated. Bulgaria, as a member of the European Union, will also probably experience the effects of the so-called Brexit. In this regard, my questions to you are: will it affect Bulgaria's euro-financing of Britain's exit from the European Union? Is there a European programme that is most threatened? Is it also expected to increase Bulgaria's membership imports in the general budget because of the so-called Brexit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Etem. Dear Mr. Donchev, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ethem, the question you are asking is undoubtedly up to date, but you will allow me one deviation within a few seconds. Undoubtedly important, however, it is not focused on the biggest problem or the biggest challenge associated with Britain's possible exit from the Union, insofar as the biggest challenge is the economic and political consequences of this act. Where one of the strongest members of the Union from an economic point of view leaves the Union, we cannot expect any adverse effects on the common market. After all, Britain, both as a population, and as an economy, is 15 16% of what it has in the European Union in the first place. Secondly, the political consequences can be even more severe than the economic ones. Your question is expected to focus on the effect of European funding. In this sense, I would like to inform you of the following. I would like to remind you that there is still no formal procedure under art. 50. There is a result of the referendum, there are a number of political applications, but there is no procedure launched. I just remind you that the possible propulsion of such a procedure can last for two years, that is, if Britain's departure occurs, it will have no effect earlier than 2018. What would be the effect? The fact is that Britain is one of the major donor countries in the European Union. Specifically, as numbers, its contribution varies over the years, but generally it moves between 15 billion and just over 16 billion. Euros. To be exact, the net contribution is smaller because the data shows that at least 45% of this amount is returned to Britain itself. Only 3.5 billion are the funds it receives for direct payments. This means that Britain has a share that depends on the year, about 10-12 per cent of the total budget. However, the information I provide should not be automatically transferred to all funding. You know well that cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy is not the whole European budget, there are other costs for other policies, including expenditure on administration. At the moment, the debate on the subject is not yet under way. Whether a possible exit of the UK will reduce the budget of the European Union, whether as an alternative it will result in an increase in the contributions of the member states is very early to say, as it is very early to say, whether we really will have Brexit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Ethem, would you like a line? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are right, the procedure has not yet started at European level, and Britain's steps to this act are still expected. However, all the signs and actions of the newly elected government in the United Kingdom indicate that this will be a fact, it is coming and most likely Bulgaria will have to take Britain outside the European Union. I hope that we, as a country to which the European Union is about to chair, will have an adequate policy for both the political processes and the consequences of the act and the economic ones. I believe that your administration in the EU funds section will find the optimal balance for the protection of Bulgarian interests, as Bulgaria is one of the poorest member states of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Etem. A hole, dear Mr. Donchev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u16	Dear Mr Etem, as I said, the possible exit of Britain is linked to many different adverse consequences not only in terms of European funding. Of course, specifically on this topic, my team, myself, have worked extremely hard in recent weeks and we are ready with various alternative scenarios depending on which of them will be activated. Let me supplement the information provided a little while ago with one more detail. A key point in a possible departure from Britain is its attitude to the common market and from an economic point of view there is nothing more important than that. Great Britain has a huge economy, export oriented, with a major emphasis on not only the production of cars and exports of oil and oil products. The main focus in the British economy are financial services and business services. These are businesses for tens of billions that it has export to the common market. And the key question is how will relations be settled with a possible Brexit between Britain and the common market, insofar as the common market is only for the Member States? Yes, we have two exceptions. They are a little more, but let's focus on Switzerland and Norway - two countries that have partial access to the common market with many exceptions. Norway has access to the common market, but with the exception of fishery products. Switzerland has access to the common market, but excluding business services. And most importantly, the two countries as part of the deal for access to the common market, firstly, accept the free movement of people; and secondly, they pay. By the way, this is the reason for the existence of the Norwegian and the Swiss programme, in which only their budget for Bulgaria of the Norwegian is 126.6 million respectively. EUR, of the Swiss "85 million'. Swiss francs. This is only in relation to Bulgaria. In this sense, if Britain insists on maintaining full or partial access to the common market, it must contribute to cohesion policy. In this sense, the net effect may be zero. Of course, we are ready for the worst scenario, which I deeply do not believe will be realised, for example, reducing cohesion policy by 10%. But given that this will not happen next year, given that we have intensive processes of budgetary consolidation, I am absolutely convinced that even if this scenario materialises, we are ready for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. We're going to the next question for you. He is from the MP Mihail Mikov and is related to claims of the State Agency of State Reserves and Wartime Stocks. Dear Mr. Mikov, you have the opportunity to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u18	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! Dear Minister, it is good that you are also here because it is also related to your portfolio. The energy policy will undoubtedly lead to the closure of Vidahim. From now on, the question arises with the creditors of Visahim. The Honourable Deputy Prime Minister was good enough to answer that it was 70 million debts to the State Reserve. Of course, Vidin municipality also has claims, probably other public creditors like the National Revenue Agency. So my question, my dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, is: are you taking action to collect the claims of the largest creditor of Vidahim. In 2007, about 17 million liabilities were collected to the National Revenue Agency. Let's see from here on out how the state will collect its claims and what the government's idea is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Mikov. It's a clear and precise question. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikov, just two details before I answer. Firstly, the purpose of the policy is not to strike or damage to any enterprise. This is a limitation of oversubsidized productions, especially when they are effective. Because more payments in terms of an ineffective manufacturer means a higher price for both business and households. Secondly, I want to thank you for the question and say it without any irony. Any interest, especially here in the National Assembly, in terms of how the state machine works, pursuing public interest, is beneficial. And this case, if not emblematic, is largely curious and deserves extra attention. As you rightly pointed out on the basis of the reference I provided you, it is a claim of almost 69 million. lv. I don't like reading in this room, but since it's about a lot of details, I'm going to allow myself to read information about the entire case's mostly forensic history. With regard to the proceedings against the company, it is a matter of "Vidahim', an order has been adopted on 31 August 2007 of the Vidin District Court, a measure of guaranteeing the execution. The proceedings brought were rejected as unfounded by a decision of the Sofia City Court, respectively, confirmed by a decision of the Sofia Court of Appeal and a definition of the ICC, which did not allow the decision of the Sofia Court of Appeal to be heard. By application dated 10 March 2016, the Commission received a request from the European Food Safety Authority ("the Authority') for authorisation from the European Food Safety Authority ("the Authority'). The State Reserves and Wartime Stocks on the grounds of art. 402 of the PDC has been requested to repeal the definition by which the guarantee measure was granted "stopping execution' in both enforcement cases, as the reason why it was admitted has already dropped out. By order No 743 according to the description of the District Court of Vidin, our application was rejected as unfounded due to a partial complaint brought to the VCC by That part of the complaint was accordingly dismissed as inadmissible, in accordance with Order No 121 of the VCC. A private complaint has been filed against Order No 143, which I quoted just now from 6 April 2106 on the description of the District Court of Vidin, but currently there is no ruling. In order to be able to use adequate information, I will leave all the references. As a lawyer, I suspect you'll be curious. In addition, in my view, the unjustified and incorrect definition of the District Court in Vidin by the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks is an alert to the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council with a request for verification. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In response received by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, it was held that verification was not necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u21	Dear Mr. Donchev, if you wish in the back you can further develop the history of the cases. Mr. Mikov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Minister! The court saga will surely follow it, but now that it is obvious that "Vidahim" will no longer be able to carry out proceedings, I will only mention it, as you did at the beginning: yes, the state does not aim to subsidise, only that the Sofia thermal efficiency subsidizes it. And it subsidizes it well. The state has decided that Bulgaria does not need to produce tires. We have discussed this matter with the Minister. The country today does not need car tires, it will import. Tomorrow he will import forks, the day after tomorrow spoons, everything will be imported until one day it is known that this policy is not good, but, yes, it is only in the first part, because there are other industries where there are subsidies, there are foreign investors such as TPP-1 and TPP-3, where there is state funding. But tires or polyamide fibers in Svisozija, because the case is similar, there is no need for Bulgaria to have. Let them watch cucumbers and tomatoes. My request, dear Minister, is to take all action in this direction so that the state can protect its interest in this case. Because in the forensic labyrinth and these decisions and definitions that you read to me, we can get to the point that at some point the state's interest, and it is about serious state interests in this case, is seriously damaged. It is clear to everyone that the prospects for Vidahim do not exist anymore. It is clear that these obligations are in practical bankruptcy. As it is in practical bankruptcy, to proceed to bankruptcy proceedings, not in this court maze, inspectorates, district court, district court, appeals, supreme... Let's move on to bankruptcy. It's the best way for the state to protect its interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, please come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u24	Dear Mr. Mikov, in addition to what I have just said to you, because the case is undoubtedly of interest, further information has been given to the State Agency of National Security, which, in my opinion, has much to do with everything related to this case. Since you've expanded the field of the question, I'll allow myself a few comments. If Visahim had produced more tyres than electricity, there would be no problem with the big problem that, specifically in recent years, there has been no other production than electricity production, and in this sense, it is unjustified to obtain subsidised prices for efficient factory production. As for your wider comment, please note the statistics data of Bulgaria has an increase in exports and growth of production, perhaps not on car tyres, but on other items. That's a fact, it's not my claim. I am happy and proud of every new installed industrial power, only when it is effective and when it rests on market rules. And one final clarification. When we have cases where the State or the user loses because of ineffective contracts, one way or another, the State does not hesitate to pursue its interest, as well as that of consumers, no matter who is on the other side and what nationality it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u25	Thanks for the douche bag, Mr. Donchev. That was your last answer. The questions to you today are exhausted. A successful working day ahead, he's yet to come. Next are a series of questions to the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov concerning the security of the NPP. Here you are, dear Mr. Yankov, to develop the issue of the security of the NPP Kozloduy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! NPP "Kozloduy" is on the list of strategic sites of national security importance, which are guarded by the Ministry of Interior. Madam Minister, there is a license issued for a self-guarding unit of the NPP "Kozloduy" with No 2174 as of 31 July 2012. In this regard, my question is: who is guarding the nuclear power plant, what are the security costs, and what activity does the security unit perform? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Dear Mrs. Petkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Iankov! Kozloduy NPP performs a key function to ensure economic stability both in the region and in the national plan, which is why a number of actions have been taken by the Bulgarian state over the years to ensure the security of the Central as an object with special security status. In a chronological plan, by decision No 629 of the Council of Ministers of 4 July 2005, the nuclear facilities located on the site of the NPP At present, the physical protection of the Company is carried out by employees of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate of the City of Vratsa, based on a contract concluded on 5 June 2012 for a period of five years, which is to be renewed subject, of course, to the terms of the Public Procurement Act. The nature of the work of the police authorities shall include operational activities, physical security and crossing regime and shall cover areas for physical protection of facilities, premises, sites and transport. The monthly price of the service includes the monthly remuneration of the real-time employees in the Regional Management of the Nuclear Power Plant, securing the material base, the required number of motor vehicles and fuel lubricants. Under the contract, the Regional Management provides the required number of permanent posts, car patrols, response groups, temporary posts with bypass pairs and emergency reinforcement posts. The district government's numbers are 316 employees and the really occupied state of the Ministry of Interior is currently 283. The average monthly expenditure of a really busy state of the Ministry of Interior for the NPP is approximately 700 thousand. BGN, with the costs of security being incurred according to the state table of the Ministry of Interior for real-time staff by state. It should also be noted that the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" has a license to carry out self-security activities of its property since 31 July 2012. The license was issued by the Directorate General of the Ministry of Interior and meets the requirements and conditions for issuing such a licence as laid down in art. 5, para. 1, t. 5 of the Private Security Act. On this basis, a self-guard unit has been established at the NPP of four employees who guard the property and accompany consignments owned by the Company outside the territory of the protected zone. The volume of the activities of the employees of the unit shall also include daily escorting of outsiders to the administrative buildings of the undertaking on their visits. With regard to the complicated international security situation, it must be stressed that all necessary measures have been taken by the NPP on the basis of physical protection and security of the sites. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u29	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Yankov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Madam Secretary! The regional management of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" by state are 316, working 283. All sites located in the protected area of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" shall be protected only by the regional management of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." The response of signals from signal-security systems in the area of the protected zone shall be carried out only by employees of the NPP Regional Management "Kozloduy." In case of crisis situations to ensure the physical protection of the sites, forces and funds from the Directorate-General of National Police and other forces and funds of the Ministry of Interior may be additionally attracted. The sites located outside the protected area of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" are guarded by a security company under contract. Tell me: why is it necessary in the NPP to have, according to my information, a self-guarded unit, a group of personal protection? Yes, it consists of four people, a group leader, one chief specialist and two specialists - Personal protection. You just said yourself that this unit is also used to accompany visitors. Did you know that this unit requested a personal security license for individuals and he was denied? Currently, in order for it to exist, it is justified by personal participation in the security of the transport of nuclear material. The persons have short-cut weapons and aids..sticks and handcuffs. They do not have a security licence for valuable shipments and cargo and a security licence for events. Did you request the job description of these individuals from the self-guard unit? Do you know what functional duties they have in mind? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u31	Thank you. A hole, dear Minister of Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Iankov, of course I've come to know the official characteristics of these persons. Firstly, it is important to clarify that there is nothing illegal and nothing unusual about the nuclear power plant, Kozloduy, to have such a unit. The consignments that are accompanied are not valuable consignments within the meaning of the law, so these are consignments and they actually have a commitment to provide security to outsiders when they enter the relevant areas of the nuclear power plant. These four employees perform the functions assigned to them. They have a license that is under the law. They have a license which is in compliance with the law and this license was issued in 2012. It is in compliance with the legal requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u33	Thanks for the douche. With it, Mr. Yankov's question is exhausted. We're going to the next question for you. He is one of two MPs - Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, and he is responsible for seeking liability from officials responsible for the judgment against NEK EAD for 550 million. EUR under the case-law of the NPP of Belene. Dear Mr. Slavov, please come in and develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u34	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question really concerns the demand for financial liability by officials responsible for the judgment against NEK EAD for 550 million. EUR, and it actually turned out that it was for more than 600 million. EUR, according to the case with NPP "Belene". In other words, Madam Minister, as well as many people, we ask ourselves the question: will this monstrous waste of public funds remain without consequences, or as it was once sung in a popular song, that there will be no laws for millions? Madam Minister, we ask the following: Dear Minister, according to the publicly announced decision of the Court of Arbitration on the case lv. The claim of the Russian party is based on ordered and unpaid equipment for the nuclear power plant by the then leadership of NEK EAD, without the conclusion of a contract for the construction of NEK NPP, without providing funding for such a project and with the strong negative public attitudes for building an expensive and dangerous project in one of the seismically most active areas in the country. At the Forty-first National Assembly, an inquiry committee was formed to clarify the facts and circumstances of the nearly 2 billion spent at that time. lv. "Investigations" in the non-containable nuclear power plant "Belene." The State Financial Inspection Agency has prepared reports containing detailed information on unlawful, unfavorable and inappropriate actions by a number of officials. Following the judgment of the Court of Arbitration against the Bulgarian side, we should add more than 600 million to these 2 billion wasted taxpayers' money. Euros. Dear Minister, we believe that it is appropriate to take responsibility from the guilty officials responsible for this monstrous waste of public funds and, in this regard, please answer the following question: will the Ministry of Energy, such as the principal of the Bulgarian energy holding company and NEK EAD, actions and what for seeking financial responsibility against the officials responsible for ordering the equipment which is the subject of the request of the Russian country, without the construction of the nuclear power plant Belene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Madam Minister Petkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Slavov, dear Mr. Dimitrov! The question you are putting is very relevant and is very important, very important, but what we need to clarify is that on 14 July this year, the Arbitration came up with a solution. This decision is reprehensible to a national electricity company, such as the Arbitration in the case of a claim made by the Atomstroyexport, amounting to 1 billion. 200 million. EUR 550 million euros that the National Electricity Company has to pay to Atomstroyexport. You can see that a very substantial part of this claim is not satisfied. What is the fact that the Arbitration is satisfied with the claim of the Atomstroyexport? The demands of the Atomstroyexport are satisfied with respect to these seven claims. Three of the claims are met. These claims relate only to the equipment ordered by Appendix No 5 of 5 November 2008 with a long production cycle. Just to remind you that this Appendix 5 is signed against the background of the lack of a contract for engineering, supply and construction. In this Appendix No 5 the value of the equipment is also determined. 673 million. Euros. We can do the analogy ourselves with what Arbitration practically awards. An advance was paid immediately thereafter at the amount of 84 million. Euros. Thus, in practice, arbitration becomes irreversible in relation to this part. With regard to the other four claims relating to the claim for price escalation, with a claim for lost benefits, with a claim for work carried out outside the scope of the contract, Arbitration categorically states that these claims are unfounded. It rejects them with the argument that these parameters have never been agreed between the parties as they have never entered into an engineering, supply and construction contract in which precisely these parameters must be defined. This is the actual situation. What happened over the years? As you mentioned in your question, a series of checks have been carried out by the State Financial Inspection Agency in relation to the project Financial inspections were carried out in both the National Electricity Company and the Bulgarian Energy Holding, as well as in the former Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism with regard to the allocated funds and their spending, we remember that at the end of 2008 they were granted in connection with this project. A series of infringements in the field of public procurement, very severe, very gross infringements, violations in respect of budgetary discipline were identified in these inquiries. All these reports have been submitted and sent to the competent authorities of the prosecution. For the purpose of the reply, I requested information from the Agency for State Financial Inspection concerning the development of this process. What is really established at this time? As early as May 2012, the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office, the specialized anti-financial and tax fraud unit, informed the Agency for State Financial Inspection that pre-trial proceedings were initiated in connection with crimes and damages in particularly large proportions on the occasion of this project. Later, however, last March 2015, a decree came to the prosecutor's office and the National Electricity Company that the proceedings were terminated due to a lack of criminality under the relevant regulations. Then immediately the National Electricity Company (National Electricity Company), the Ministry of Energy and the Bulgarian Energy Holding appealed this decision of the Prosecutor's Office and in April 2015 it was cancelled and a new investigation is currently under way, so everything is in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office. I hope that colleagues will really analyse the whole factual situation, because this is really very important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u37	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Mr. Dimitrov, you'll probably make the line. You have a chance. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen! How can you get equipment for a nuclear power plant without having a contract without funding without having an approved project? This is absolutely unacceptable by all rules! And it is no coincidence that the Financial Inspection reports reveal very serious violations. I would call you, Madame Minister, not for that 2 billion. lv. not to be held liable, which have been spent so far, and are the result of this arbitration decision, although we are all aware that Bulgaria has been well protected in these conditions and the result of the arbitration is favourable to us, but the question is another: why does this arbitration exist at all? Who ordered these reactors and at political level who approved this order? As Chairman of the Financial Inspection, we did a good job. The reports that were prepared at the time were very serious. Now, as Minister, I urge you to check at political level who authorized the ordering of these reactors without providing funding without having a contract without having an approved project? This must be checked and added to the prosecution's case. There is no way to order reactors and at political level this was not approved by the then government. We need to do a serious background check now who authorized it, who authorized it. There must be very specific people behind this action, behind this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Duplica, Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, I am a judge in principle of the fact that anyone who has broken the law or who has caused damage to the state, to the company, must bear their responsibility. I think there's nothing fairer than that. What you are putting as a matter of authorisation of these persons is also examined in the reports of the Agency for State Financial Inspection and it contains all the information. The control bodies then found that there was no decision of the Board of Directors to sign this Appendix No 5, that is to say there is no liability of the Board of Directors. It turns out that the two CEOs then decided on their own and took this very serious step. Otherwise, other far less significant things are requested permission from the Board of Directors, as this is a very important issue. This is a matter related to the spending of a very serious public resource and such decisions must be taken with the clear mind and with the responsibility of the management bodies, but, anyway, such a decision is missing and the persons who have signed this Appendix No 5 are the former two executives of the National Electricity Company. All that is collected as evidence and collected as information in the course of the financial inspections is provided to the authorities of the Prosecutor's Office and I hope that they will indeed take this issue extremely seriously and responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. We're moving on to another question for you. He is from the National Representative Christian Vigenin and is about permission to study construction materials in the land of the village of Lobodage, Blagoevgrad municipality. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, asking your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, on your proposal by decision of the Council of Ministers of 30 March 2016 is approved permission for the study of construction materials. 2, para. 1, t. 5 of the Law on Underground Treasures, in the area of Lagodage, located at the locality of the village of Lobodage, Blagoevgrad municipality, Blagoevgrad district. On April 15th, you also issued the final act. There are now two active careers in the land of the village of Logadage. Along with this, the potential new career is located less than 1000 m from the centre of the village and 500 m from the neighborhood of the village, in gross violation of the requirements of Regulation No 7 on hygiene requirements for the health protection of the settlement environment. In close proximity, about 500 meters away, there are two main water sources of the village of Lagodage, the Church well and the Klisurska river, which flows into the dam of not more than 1000 m Stoykovtsi. It is in violation of Decree No 3 on the conditions and arrangements for exploration, design, validation and operation of sanitary areas around the water supply and facilities for drinking and water supply and around the water sources of mineral waters used for medical purposes. It is also not relevant that the main road connection of the career with the highway "Struma" passes through the settlements of Logage, Village, Green Dol, and three other villages enjoy the same connection for travel to Blagoevgrad, which in itself creates serious risks and difficulties for the population. In this regard, I would like to ask you: what are the reasons with which, in violation of the requirements and against the will of the population, permission to study has been granted? I have a petition from practically all the villagers, which is declared against this permission. Are you ready, taking into account the violations and problems, as well as the firm will of the villagers, to initiate the cancellation of the permission granted and to order the suspension of any investigative activities until its cancellation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Dear Minister Petkova, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, the vizized area of Lagodage is agreed with positive opinions by the competent ministers under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Underground Treasures, responsible for protecting the national security and defence of the country with protected territories, objects and cultural values. The agreement was conducted with the mayor of Blagoevgrad municipality, whose opinion states that there are no circumstances under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures. In the land of the village of Logadage there are no concessions for the extraction of underground riches. 4 km northwest of the indicated village was granted concession for the extraction of construction materials from the locality of Luchishte, located in the localities of the village of Klisura and the village of Drenkovo, with About 3 km from the south of the village of Lobodage, is situated in the locality of the cave, located in the land of the village of Obel, with the village of Pirinstrojgniztvoj. On the basis of art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration and art. 53, para. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures was co-ordinated with the members of the Council of Ministers. In the coordination procedure, the Ministry of Health shall agree, provided that the experimental works do not allow overloads of environmental pollutants at the sites subject to health protection and activities to comply with the prohibitions and restrictions and do not violate the operating regime of sanitary zones pursuant to Regulation No 3 of 2000 provided that the survey area falls within such areas. The conditions laid down by the competent departments are accepted and reflected by a remark that they will be included in the study contract as an obligation for the holder of an authorisation. The visated condition is enforceable after the entry into force of the study authorisation, which is currently under appeal within the statutory period. A complaint has been lodged against the visated act by the mayors of the villages of Logodage, Village and Green Dol. By application to the Supreme Administrative Court of 21 June 2016, the appeal was withdrawn and, on this basis, it was dismissed. A complaint was also received within the legal period for appeal signed by those mayors and five natural persons who were left without movement due to non-payment of a state fee by the complainants. The water sources and water supply facilities referred to in your question are located close to the areas requested for research, but do not fall within them. It should be borne in mind that Decree No 3 introduces a restrictive and prohibition regime for underground mining activities and the construction of hydrogeological and engineering research facilities, including groundwater water facilities in the underground water site. As indicated in the work programme for the study of the candidate concessionaire, activities such as jugs, drills, burves, which are marked in quantitative and value terms are provided. It should be borne in mind that at the time the authorisation was granted by the holder, the provision of a comprehensive and annual research work project was not required. This obligation is a condition for the entry into force of the study contract, which has not been concluded at present. It should be taken into account that the specific technical solutions for research activities are contained in those projects, including the exact location and coordination of research works and facilities. Given that Regulation No 3 sets specific restrictions on distance from sanitary zones in metric values, compliance with it may be carried out after providing a comprehensive annual work project. In addition, this comprehensive work project shall be assessed for compatibility with the competent environmental protection authorities and the right to examine only after a positive assessment act for the compatibility of the overall work project has entered into force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u45	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I have no doubt that all the necessary administrative steps have been taken, and I have no doubt that in the absence of sensitivity to the problems of the people there, they will be crushed, provided that their own municipality of Blagoevgrad has betrayed them. At the same time, given that there is such tension and anxiety in people, I think that there is nothing more natural than that, even if you personally go to meet these people. I think it would be good for every minister to come out of the cabinet a little bit and meet ordinary people to see how the decisions behind closed doors and windows of the cabinet affect people's direct lives. I'm sure if it was about issuing permission for permanent explosions 500 meters from your apartment, you'd probably think about whether that would happen. Naturally, the road is not on track, there are still steps that will be taken, but the final result will be this: the trucks will start from the settlement to Struma Motorway, and this will pose a risk to all who will use this road to travel to the center of the municipality, namely Blagoevgrad. I also refer to the company that has received this permission, I purposely do not mention it, also go to meet people and explain to them what it is about, what commitments they themselves could take to people. After all, when there are such doubts, when people react, there is nothing more natural than to hold meetings, to be reassured if they can be reassured, and to take into account their concerns. I understand there's been a complaint filed with the Supreme Administrative Court. I understand from you that it may have been left without consequences, because apparently these people could not organize themselves, hire a lawyer and work in an adequate way to cancel this permission. But I appeal to you, in addition to being a minister, you are both a man and a citizen and a woman, and it seems to me that you should approach this problem with due attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u47	Maybe a mother. Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. A hole, dear Minister. Perhaps from other qualities that have been described, you should also respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Vigenin, I am both a man and a woman and a mother and a minister, so I would love to go and meet these people. In the Ministry of Energy, it is a practice to have meetings and to react to any concerns of people when it comes to concession, extraction, permission to study because we understand people's concerns. If there is even the slightest doubt about any problem that could arise, believe me, we will do whatever is necessary so that no unnecessary tension can be reached. It is important to clarify that there is virtually no violation of the Law, there is no danger for people living in this area, there is no danger of problems in the water supply area in relation to the research activities that need to be done, as they are quite serious distance from the area to be explored. Moreover, even if there is a contract, it will not enter into force before the competent authority "The Ministry of Environment and Water" within the EIA decision may or may not be investigated in this area. If the EIA decision says that this cannot happen, this contract will not enter into force. I will definitely go there and meet people to calm them down and tell them that the state is really where they are and where people's problems are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. There's another question for you. He is from the National Representative Dimitar Tanev Tanev and is on a Regulation for public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 and more than 50% state or municipal participation in capital. I don't see any movement in the room. The coworker's gone. We'll continue with the next question. If he shows up, then I'll give him a chance to ask the question. We are moving on to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov about the future of the project "NPP" after the decision of the Court of Arbitration. Here you are, dear Mr. Antonov, to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, from the beginning of the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly, which coincides with your mandate as Minister, I have repeatedly raised the question of the prospects for the Bulgarian nuclear energy and in particular the prospects for completion of the Atomic Power Plant. To all my questions you have answered specifically with calls for silence, which I have largely accepted that you are preparing your strategy and working on the issue of realizing the headquarters in Belene. At your calls for silence, in fact, until arbitration was passed, nothing else happened but what we expected, Bulgaria was condemned by the Atomstroyrecom at 550 million. EUR or 620 million euros, according to different data, with which we have de facto reached a critical situation, which is why we must now solve the Adhok issue. I would like to remind you that the penalty of 550 million. EUR is not for the first energy block, because that is what we have already sold. We had this situation with stopping Belene. One block sold for 100 million. The dollar. This is real for the second and third energy blocs that are intended for this plant. All this brings us to a situation where we have no clarity about what will happen. Insecurities in the policy in the sector............. by the highest state level has brought us to unpredictable consequences. My question to you is: what future of the project are you planning and are you going to intervene seriously on this topic?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Madam Minister, once again you will have to be responsible for the situation of NPP Belene. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u52	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, this is another important and up-to-date issue in relation to NPP Belene. As your question has been formulated, what is the vision for the future of this project? The vision for the future of the project is in the hands of all of us. Since the past of this project is linked to actions, interventions and decisions taken back in time, in the distant 2004, 2005 and 2006, these decisions have led to today's state of affairs, from which we all need to look for a way out. In this regard, I would like to appeal to all of you, to all political parties, to mobilise our expertise, to consolidate, to work and to choose the best solution for Bulgaria, which will protect to the maximum extent our interests. If we go back in time, we'll see what's causing this arbitrage. We will see that decisions have been made to order this equipment with a long production cycle, which in fact makes it possible for arbitration to be made in addition to Appendix 5 of 2008, and what arbitration awards is exactly the value of the equipment we have ordered, something more, we have paid an advance in 2008 at the amount of 84 million. Euros and the process has become irreversible. Those are the things in the past. We have to make decisions today and now. As has been repeatedly articulated in the public domain, the options regarding the future of the project are not many. There's a few of them. Some of the options arbitrage itself has developed in its decision. The first possible solution is for the National Electricity Company to pay the 550 million. EUR with interest that flow every day.. They amount to 167 thousand. EUR per day, until the final payment of the corresponding amount. Of course, they will become even more. Then the National Electric Company will become the owner of this equipment. The other option set out in the arbitration decision is the possibility that the Atomstroyexport and the National Electricity Company together seek to sell the equipment to a third party. Since, at present, the Atomstroyexport is the owner of this equipment until it is paid, they are the owners of this equipment. These are the two options developed in the arbitration decision. We also consider another option to enable the realization of this project, but as a private one, with the participation of investors, by setting out the assets of the NPP project "Belene" which are taken out in a separate company, a separate trading company, respectively with liabilities. This will be provided to the Privatization Agency for the implementation of this project through its privatisation and its completion as a private project. That's the version we're analyzing right now. The worst option for all of us and I think it would be to pay the equipment, to write off 1.4 billion costs for the playground and not to do anything. That's the worst-case scenario. These are the possible options. They don't get much, but we all have to choose the best option to protect the country's interests to the maximum. I'm sure that'll be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u53	Thank you, dear Minister. The line, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u54	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! In general, what I said was that there is no strategy. In fact, we have only one option I see no other option that exists before you as Minister of Energy, but not only in front of you, but also in front of all of us. All other options are a loss to the state. Somehow I don't accept the acceptance that once we have reactors, it's some kind of loss for us. First of all, I'd like to remind you that we have a really licensed playground. That's what you say a few times in the interviews we give. In the world and in Europe at the moment, there is no licensed site that has no prospect of building, and there is no nuclear plant that is at a loss and does not win. And we come to some presumption, almost a great disaster where we have two reactors. These two reactors today according to information from energy experts, if only one reactor is ordered, its value is 1 billion. Euros. And we have two that are already invested. I ask that in this direction the strategy be put in place for the implementation of the plant, not for us to look at it with peace. In addition, we have an EIA that is implemented. It is true that we have an expired right to construction, but this is repairable, it can be easily achieved. Note that everything on the site is filled with all the pillows down, which are built tens of meters below the ground level, as well as anything else accompanying and necessary. We have built a port with two terminals, huge warehouses opened and covered, necessary for the installation, installation of hundreds of decares. The entire infrastructure is built and the railway infrastructure and social infrastructure is built. There are seismology and metrology systems. The direction should be one, not selling our sovereignty to which it came by 1 billion. BGN, let's finish the plant. For information about these 37 days after the arbitrage expires, this amounts to more than 12 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u55	Thank you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u56	Colleagues were asking a question, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u57	Mr. Antonov, indeed the Minister is the man you are obliged to communicate with right now. Here you go, Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Antonov, when it comes to lack of strategy, we need to go back a little in time. There was obviously no strategy in 2006 because there was no contract. You know what the main problem is, don't you? The main problem, in order not to have a contract, is that no clarity has been achieved with regard to the cost of the project. No basic parameters have been agreed on by him. The most important parameter related to the escalation of the price, i.e. how much this project will cost in the final, is the reason why there is no contract. And when we speak from this high tribune, we must be aware that the value of this project according to the documents contained in the National Electricity Company and the Ministry of Energy under the tender procedure for the selection of a strategic investor is clearly indicated, the final cost of the project is clearly indicated and it is 10 billion. 45 million. Euros. Do you think we have that kind of resource right now? Because such a resource has not been available in 2006, such a resource has not yet been available. The state can't afford NEK can't afford to enter into such an investment. So we want what the project has, and it is really valuable, and I absolutely agree with you, this is the site with all the infrastructure. It's licensed. Indeed, there are very few sites licensed in the world right now. We have EIA, we have all the documents we need. That is why we want to separate the assets that are extremely valuable and to be put to the tender spoken, public, open through the Privatization Agency. To show up an investor to complete this project, but as a private one, as this would be a very serious commitment, purely financial, for the National Electricity Company, at all for the public finances of the country. I believe that this is a challenge that we must very carefully analyse and consider. We must not make mistakes with the sale of equipment to a third party at all costs either, because this means that we must again generate losses both in the distant 2007 and 2008. This must also not be allowed, and this should not be the only option. I rely very much on all of you, on your responsible position and on your expertise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u59	Thank you, dear Minister of Energy. The question that my colleague Tanev could not ask a moment ago is that you are already here about a Regulation for public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies with 50 and more than 50% state or municipal participation in capital. Dear Mr. Tanev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question relates to the reasons for delaying the Ordinance on Public Disclosure and Optimization of Costs in Commercial Companies with 50 and more than 50% State and municipal participation. Madam Minister, you know that on the grounds of art. 2, para. 2 of the Energy Act by 24 October 2015 was to be issued such a regulation to fulfil the commitment that you made and we supported, to reduce energy costs of 10 percent of their administrative costs. That is why this regulation had to create conditions not only for one time, but for a gradual reduction at all, and especially for more transparency in the sector. According to this regulation, we had to have information about the costs of state companies, I would say, some sensitive costs for advertising, or for fixed assets and so on. The public is excited about how to spend the money we all pay through electricity bills. On 11 February I submitted a question to you because until then this regulation has not been issued. You said there was a project that was being discussed and explained the delay with the discussion that has with the relevant principals. So far, there is still no such regulation, but it has been ten months. The regulation that you have proposed is to see [[shows it]] It's about a list. I don't think there's any problem or what he consults on a sheet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u61	If I may, the question is specific, since time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u62	My question is: what are the reasons why you were unable to issue this regulation? When will it be released?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Madam Minister of Energy, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev! With regard to the obligation of the Minister of Energy to issue a decree for public disclosure and optimization of the costs of commercial companies of 50 and more than 50 per cent State or municipal participation in capital together with the principle of companies operating under this law, the Ministry of Energy prepared a draft regulation and put it to public consultation in January. Part of the opinions received as a result of the discussion concerned the legality of the scope of the regulation, since the entry in the Law................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In this regard, the Ministry continued to seek an appropriate formulation that would be without legal risks and ensure that the regulation would be relevant to all energy undertakings under state control. A proposal will also be made to adapt art. 4, para. 2, p. 22 of the Energy Act, so that the regulation is in accordance with the regulations. In addition, we had to revise the cost disclosure apps so as to achieve a complete balance between the objective of disclosure of the costs of companies without at the same time blocking the normal commercial activity of the undertakings covered by the regulation and creating the possibility of abuse and unfair competition, such as concerns expressed by the state-owned companies in the sector. In the light of that, a new draft regulation has been drawn up, which has gone through the public consultation procedure again. At present, the regulation has been established by my order and is about to be published in the Official Gazette. I am using this case to really thank you for your expressed position and for the communication we have had to improve the regulation and make it possible as it is at present. I would like to assure you that this regulation has reflected all the costs associated with both the acquisition of fixed tangible assets and staff costs, the cost of donations, everything directly related to the cost of the production that these energy enterprises produce. The main reason for the delay was because of the objections and opinions received by the energy undertakings with regard to the interpretation of the provision and which companies should fall within the scope of this regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u65	Thanks for the answer. Do you want a line, Mr. Tanev? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u66	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Your response made it clear that such a regulation already exists and we expect to see it, for which I thank you. I hope that through this document we are confident that in energy things will be more transparent and the costs to which society is sensitive, and we ask ourselves every day whether they are being made as economically as possible, I hope they find their answer, for which I thank you. With interest, I'll expect to see the new document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. A hole? You don't want to. With this, the questions to you about today's parliamentary control are exhausted. We wish you a good day on the road. We are moving on to a series of questions to the Minister of Culture Mr. Rashidov. The first question will be asked by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev on the state policy for promoting culture by providing free entrance to museums and galleries. Interesting idea, Mr. Delchev. Let's hear your arguments. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In my meetings with citizens in the country, I often have questions about the state policy of free access to cultural institutes, namely museums, galleries, because there are people who want to visit these places to enrich their culture and knowledge, but they cannot afford it. At my meeting with citizens in Petrich, a proposal was made to introduce uniform national rules regarding the days when the entrance to museums and galleries would be free of charge. And currently some of these cultural institutes provide free entry for citizens during major national holidays, but in order to have more people access to their expositions, it is necessary to introduce this practice equally and everywhere. In this regard, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions: Has the Ministry of Culture discussed the introduction of a free day for visits to museums and galleries in the country once a week or a month, such as practice exists in other European countries, and has the Ministry of Culture discussed the creation of routes with visits to museums, galleries, cultural landmarks in the use of preferential prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Dear Mr. Rashidov, Minister of Culture, with interest we expect to hear your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u70	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Delchev, in relation to your question, I will inform you of the following. The activities of museums are related to the presentation of cultural values in order to reveal and promote their cultural and scientific value to society. The museums are separate legal entities and ticket revenues are one of their main sources of own revenue, which are used for activities related to the preservation and presentation of cultural heritage. Article 187, para. 4 of the Cultural Heritage Act regulates the obligation of all museums to provide free admission to visit one of the days of the week. Children who learn, people with disabilities use preferential prices or are exempt from paying an entry ticket. The practice of the European Union is different, according to the specifics of the funding and policy of the museum concerned. Free entrance to visit is no more common than once a month. The museums are state, municipal, private and mixed. In the form of property and national, regional, local and territorial scope the various forms of property and territorial scope do not allow for the creation of routes to visit museums, galleries and cultural landmarks with preferential prices. This is a matter of arrangement between the individual cultural institutes as independent legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u72	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Rashidov. As a lawyer, I understand that the difference in ownership excludes the possibility that the state would impose, say, private cultural institutions or museums on a particular day to organize free entrance, but I still think that if one discussion is made with all representatives of cultural institutions, whether private or state institutions in Bulgaria, and there is a consensus one day a month, let's say, some Sunday, some Saturday or some Tuesday, which is not such an active day for visits to museums and galleries, the entrance will be free. This, firstly, would be a gesture from the state and all cultural institutions to the citizens and to the people to stimulate the enrichment of the common culture. Secondly, this would be a good way in museums and cultural institutions to invite people who so far, because they are too old, do not have enough available income or have no job and can not afford, or for them it is too much expense, because there are such people even the ticket of BGN 2.50 or BGN 3. is a great expense, to be invited to museums and to get acquainted with our cultural and historical wealth, with our past and with the greatness of the Bulgarian state, which, I believe, is within the walls of these cultural institutions. My suggestion is, if any such discussion can be made and there is a consensus between most, so to speak, owners or managers of such cultural institutes. I will welcome and gladly participate in such a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Delchev, I just want to answer you because in what I read in the text there was one thing that we are slightly different from the practices of European museums. Mr. Delchev, we are different precisely because we have more free access and days for free visits. So what you're saying, we're doing it now. Of course, there are many important things to be done in the West and not here. This is to do with the Ministry of Education, with a purely educational purpose of accessing the art of children. We have done one thing that is very good for the Bulgarian museums - this is the deranged budget, which allows them to have their own revenue for activities. Of course, museums always need means for exhibitions, for visitors, traveling Bulgarian and so on. So this, on the one hand, also happens with the opportunities that tickets give. All over the world, culture is funded in one way or another. I'd say it's kind of populism to say that we almost have to open everything up for poor people. Of course, for poor people there are reduced tickets, for children there are reduced tickets So there are monthly tickets that are more expensive. One can interrupt watching at some point and return to the month one day when it is possible and convenient. These are all European practices. Otherwise, when we can save up for a TV set, why not save up if we want so much and for culture? Don't think of it as something, but don't let it be out of total self-activity. We still have free access days, especially on national holidays, in the month they can visit children with parents twice. So I don't see much drama right now. Of course, we will be happy to discuss what you wish, to improve it further, in the interest of the Bulgarian museums. Doors are open, already... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u75	Thank you, dear Minister Rashidov. There is a second question for you from the National Representative Gunay Heusmen about the reconstruction of the roof structure and the overall facade of the mosque. Dear Mr. Hewesman, please proceed with your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, the Mosque of Ibrahim is built in Razgrad in 1616. It is included in the list of monuments of culture and is declared a folk age in the State Gazette. 69 of 1927 The Mosque of Ibrahim is the third largest of the Balkan Peninsula and the second largest in Bulgaria after Tombul mosque in the town of Shumen. At present, however, the mosque, which is declared a cultural monument and is included in UNESCO's catalogue, is closed to visitors and believers. For years the building has been in a very bad condition. The artistic ornaments on the building's facade have been destroyed and the roof structure has been overgrown with trees and shrubs that destroy and make the temple's dangerous dome. Currently no restoration activities and measures related to the preservation, preservation and maintenance of this site, included in the monuments of the culture of the Republic of Bulgaria, have been undertaken. In this regard, as a citizen and a Member of the National Assembly, I ask you the following questions: First, does the Ministry of Culture intend to make restoration and repair of the mosque, and within what deadlines? Secondly, if it is currently not possible to begin these activities, it is necessary to take urgent measures to remove the grasslands of the temple roof structure. In what time is it possible that this will happen? Mr. Minister, I am aware that at this point, a part of the issue has already been resolved for the cleaning of the bushes, but I still had to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u77	Thank you, Mr Hughesman. Dear Minister Rashidov, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hughesmen, the Mosque of Makbul Vek Ibrahim. It was declared an old folk age in 1927 and a monument of culture of the category "National importance." The archaeological remains of an earlier mosque were discovered in the interior of the building in 2001, as an archaeological monument of culture of preliminary category "National importance." On 20 March 2012, a Programme for Cooperation in the Field of Real Cultural Heritage Conservation between the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of the Republic of Turkey was signed. For the period 2012 - 2016 this programme includes the mosque of Makbul Ibrahim is included in the town of Razgrad. The commitment to finance specialized conservation, design and execution activities of conservation, restoration, adaptation is on the Turkish side. However, this programme has not entered into force since the Turkish side has failed to fulfil its mandatory national procedures. The discussions of the new Real Cultural Heritage Cooperation Programme between the two countries are currently being finalised. Regardless of the problems related to the entry into force of the Programme over the years, the Bulgarian side has treated the preservation of the mosque as a real cultural value. Given its importance and severity, a number of actions have been taken by the Ministry of Culture in the field of administration, the municipality and the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. In connection with signals received at the Ministry of Culture from the Regional Historical Museum of Razgrad, and from the regional mufti town of Razgrad, a check was carried out by the Directorate General for the Protection of the Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture. A consolidated protocol of 2015 sets out guidelines for follow-up actions which define immediate action to be taken to provide management and management of the real estate of Razgrad Municipality to clean the roof of vegetation, land mass, site restraint, as well as the appointment by the mayor of Razgrad of a commission under art. 73 of the Law on Cultural Heritage for the establishment of the real estate cultural value, type, volume and necessary strengthening, conservation, restoration and repair works. In 2016, the district administration in Razgrad declared readiness, and April, in order to finance activities to replace broken and missing glass, cutting of grown bushes on the dome. I believe that the possible approaches for future actions in the protection of the mosque are the Turkish side to give consent to the realization of the existing project by confirming the provision of funding or presenting another project that is consistent with regimes for the preservation of the real cultural value. The Ministry of Culture will assist, within its powers, in preserving this valuable monument of Ottoman architecture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u79	Thank you and I, dear Minister. Mr Hughesman, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u80	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I repeat that I am a Bulgarian MP in the Bulgarian Parliament and I cannot wait and hope that the Turkish country will start doing something in Bulgaria. Therefore, I ask you politely on behalf of the citizens of Razgrad district, if it is possible for the Ministry of Culture to set aside the necessary resources in the next budget at least to start the urgent repairs inside the building. If you do not have the opportunity for resources, then I suggest that you open a special account in which to collect donations for such activities of this mosque, and from this tribune I declare that I am ready and will give one of my salaries as a representative of the National Assembly in this account to finally start repair activities in this temple or, more specifically, this cultural monument of Bulgaria and not Turkey. Thank you very much for the second part of the answer, because it has indeed been seen and the residents of Razgrad are extremely pleased that you have cleaned this forest that was on the roof, namely the dome of the mosque. This hasn't been done in 20 years, Minister. So thank you very much. Bless you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u81	Thank you and I, Mr Hughesman, for your kindness. Dear Minister, we'll hear from you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u82	Just a few words. Mr. Chairman! Mr Hughesman, I'm only gonna make two explanations so it doesn't go wrong. Every Bulgarian monument has nothing to declare, everything on the Bulgarian land is our monument and our wealth. There is nothing to declare in this regard. This concerns all of us as a country, this concerns the wealth of the Bulgarian state. Regarding the Agreement with Turkey, which I personally signed with Culture Minister Ertugrul Gunai before, I should inform you that all adjustments - both text and coordination with the Foreign Ministry were made in time from the Bulgarian side. Of course, we have received several apologies from the Ambassador of Turkey that this document was not confirmed by the Turkish side and we continue to wait again. It's all in their hands. At the moment when they are ready, of course, we will begin the repair of the mosque very quickly, as it is an extremely beautiful mosque and is the architecture of architect Sinan, who is an historical architect. Don't doubt that. Our resources are very small, and even by law we do not have the opportunity to finance everything that is a monument of culture. We give status.. let colleagues hear this once again, because people often confuse status with obligation. Nevertheless, we have not abdicated anything. In fact, you remember that soon we stopped pouring concrete very close to the mosque itself, as it has a protected zone and no one can afford it in an area that is protected as a monument of culture to pour concrete. And we've stopped that. We're trying our best. Of course, if a lot of emergency gets worse, believe me, I'll be the first person I'm gonna ask for troubles and money to save this unique mosque. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Here comes an almost identical question concerning another object. He is from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on the reconstruction of the roof structure and the preservation of the integrity of the mosque - Banya Bashi, this time in Sofia. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u84	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Basha Bashi mosque was built in 1566-1567 and is a particularly interesting architectural creation. It is included in the list of monuments of national importance. At present, on Fridays at the Mosque, Banya Bashi has the opportunity to perform a prayer of about 700 people, but some 1200 Muslims also fit in the religious holiday days. The mosque's capacity is up to 700 people. For information, there are approximately 90 thousand Muslims living in Sofia, which means it can't hold even one hundred of these people, and there isn't another one. Over the years, the temple is increasingly crumbling, the painting ornaments on the building's facade are damaged, and the roof structure is with deep cracks. All this makes the temple dangerous to visitors. The destructions are caused by various natural phenomena, such as the May earthquake in 2012. The excavation activities around the subway also have a major impact. In your statements, I quote: "It is very urgent that measures be taken, because there may be a great deal of trouble. There is another danger of putting people in the mosque in danger, and if the dome falls, there is no temple. At present restoration activities and measures related to the storage, preservation and maintenance of this site are undertaken thanks exclusively to donors from and outside the country, but without the participation of our country. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: what actions, activities and steps has the Ministry of Culture taken to restore, preserve and preserve the integrity of the Bashi Banya Mosque, Sofia, and within what deadlines? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u85	And thank you for the question. It's almost identical to the first one. We look forward to Mr. Rashidov's reply, whether there will be anything different. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ibryamov, Mr. President is right that this is a very close question, so I will allow myself, without reading, to tell you about Banya Bashi, with full responsibility, of course, for this cultural monument, as you said, it is of national importance. When the earthquake occurred in Pernik, I went through all the community centers, churches, mosques, all the monuments of culture to see what the damage was after him. Unfortunately, just after the earthquake, a severe fissure appeared on the mosque dome, which, of course, you just determined that this was a danger in a collapse downstairs to dump people. All the prescriptions were made and the primary reinforcements were made. We made inside the skeleton and all of this, you were a witness. Here we should mention, I just said it was no accident for the first mosque, which by one coincidence and it is the work of architect Sinan, it is the property of the mufti. When we give status, this does not mean that we can finance, because any funding from the Ministry of Culture with state money is specific programs and feathers. It is not now in a bucket to reach and here is your money and we are doing it, of course, but that does not mean that we should not be concerned about it. The Mufti must commit very seriously to its commitment to ownership, because indeed, as you say, we are all concerned that this mosque may collapse. I'll run a background check. Thank you for asking the question so that the spotlight will fall there again, because it is also interesting for me to see what has improved since that time when we made a prescription. I will send the inspector again so that we can really identify the specific damage and, of course, if the owner does not find the programs and means to restore the mosque, I will put the matter before the government. God willing, on a budget, if the government finds opportunities and powers to finance, yes, we don't mind, we will. Thank you for your question. Personally, I'm going to check out the mosque one more time because it's a beautiful building and a beautiful monument of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Here's a line, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u88	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! If I told you that I expected such an answer, it wouldn't be a surprise to any of us. Mr. Minister, I cannot understand one thing when it comes to supporting the Muslim religion of mosques, then there is no funding. From this tribune, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov said the following: "We, as a state, have to make efforts for religion in the Republic of Bulgaria. You and the Prime Minister recently visited the Republic of Turkey and visited a Bulgarian church there, which was financed and restored with money from the Republic of Turkey. Why can the Bulgarian state not make the same efforts and care for a national cultural monument with historical significance in the Republic of Bulgaria? I can get into an even deeper specific, but I don't want to get into street talk. I'm just going to give one more example.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u89	Please, Mr. Ibryamov, don't even think about it, you're in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u90	The mosque in Kyustendil is in a miserable state, crumbling, even as far as I know, it's surrounded. Thirty years the state has not made any effort because it is once again a monument of culture. You yourself said not to me, you yourself said that this mosque threatens those who pray in it, and if the dome falls, it will be dangerous for all of us. It wasn't the state that put these skeletons on hold, but it was a donation to people from the Republic of Bulgaria and from outside who cared about this mosque. Please make sure that the state is concerned with cultural monuments regardless of which religion they are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. For the doppelganger, Minister Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Ibryamov, I wasn't going to answer, but you challenged me. You have just entered a political way of speaking, and especially when it comes to culture and monuments, this number must be dropped because it is not the best. I will read only one thing to you to remember this: The Jamiya is owned by the Muslim Board of Directors in Sofia. Under the provisions of the Law on Cultural Heritage and the Law on the Construction of the Area, the obligation to maintain the buildings in good condition belongs to their owners, Mr. Ibryamov. The way you talk when you say we don't want to take care of the monuments. Then I should foolishly ask you: why have more mosques been built in Bulgaria in the last 10 years than churches? Do you like that? It's not good. It's not like that, we shouldn't talk about culture like that. I can do the same, but I'm not a politician. Please. Let there be, the spiritual temples are precisely for this are spiritual to be respected by all Bulgarian citizens. I, as a spiritual man, cherish every faith, every religion from Buddha to Shiva, to Islam and to Christ, my respect. This is the hope and faith of people. Let's not make politics out of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. That was your final sentence on participation today in parliamentary control. Thank you. Good luck with that. We move on to a series of questions to another minister, who is now in parliamentary control in the National Assembly. This is the Minister of Defense Mr. Nikolai Nenchev. First, there will be a question addressed by the National Representative Angel Naydenov, and it is about the policy of the Ministry of Defence to increase motivation and interest in service in the Bulgarian Army. Dear Mr. Naydenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The reason to do this question is the concern that I am experiencing and which I am sure, Mr. Minister, that you share about the current state and even more about the trends in the assembly of species and families of troops with personnel. I will use data that have already appeared in the mass media, but which are frightening enough This is one side of the topic that we will be debating. The other side is, according to General Botsev's interview, that there are between 600 and 700 people leaving the Land Forces each year. To this, if we add the fact that at the announced reception for the vacant positions and states in the army, it turns out that there are fewer candidates than the announced seats, we are witnessing an extremely dangerous combination. What's the combination? On the one hand, there is no motivation for servicemen to stay up to, let's say, the age limit. They leave the lines of the Bulgarian Army as soon as possible. On the other hand, there is no interest in filling the positions and states in the Bulgarian Army. In other words, we do not have the necessary conditions to cause young people in the current labour market to choose the military profession, whether it be officers, sergeants or soldiers. My question, Minister, is: what is the policy of the Ministry? I ask this question with the understanding that there have already been meetings of the Defence Council, therefore there are identified measures, and they were to some extent the subject of discussion in the Defence Committee. But I am convinced that besides the present MPs, besides the expert professional interest in this topic, there will certainly be expectation in a very broad part of the Bulgarian society for your response, because obviously this has a direct link with the way the Bulgarian army performs its responsibilities and tasks.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to ask for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u96	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I understand well that the answer to this question is likely to concern many people and they are quite understandablely interested in it more than once, including you and I have discussed this topic in the Defence Committee. Due to the need for urgent measures to overcome the lack of staff, as you well mentioned, I have called two consecutive meetings of the Defence Council to which problems and opportunities for the solution have been raised and discussed. The main conclusions are that systematic underfinancing in recent years has had direct and indirect consequences on the social status of servicemen, the preparation of personnel, the modernisation of arms and equipment, including the infrastructure of the armed forces. On the other hand, lack of resources leads to overloading people, to intense tensions and feelings of uncertainty. The loss of people with valuable experience, knowledge, special training and training, in which significant investments have been invested, is about to actually confront us with problems in carrying out the main missions and tasks of the armed forces. In the Ministry of Defence, as you mentioned, a plan was developed to overcome the non-completion of Armed Forces personnel, with which I introduced you in detail during a meeting of the Defence Committee. This plan contains internal and external government measures to keep the tide from servicemen and to increase the motivation for military service. The proposed internal government measures include changing the way in which military labour is paid, improving the working conditions and improving the quality of training, adapting the conditions for admission and training of military service personnel in higher military schools to modern needs, extending the powers of commanders to reassign service personnel, improving the contractual process for the performance of military service, improving the assistance system, setting out criteria for the admission of military service, increasing the capacity to fill through scholarships, strengthening advertising and motivational campaigns to increase the rating and attractiveness of the military service. Among the external measures are updating the wages of the servicemen we will need your help and the help of all MPs. According to public sector pay, we must do everything we can to ensure that the wages of the servicemen are also competitive. The targeted measures were sent to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, to the Prime Minister and to the Defence Committee in the National Assembly. The expectation of the Ministry of Defence's military and political leadership is through adequate action at all levels of government to achieve the desired result. The purpose of the policy pursued by the Ministry of Defence is to make the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria an attractive institution capable of fulfilling its constitutional obligations and to be a stable representative of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Naydenov, two supplementary questions, two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, it is understandable that you are talking about a complex of conditions that must be applied in order to create a motive and therefore to raise interest for service in the Bulgarian Army. You mentioned updating the pay. It is, of course, part of those conditions that must be created. However, including in the changes proposed in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, a good intention of yours, related to updating the odds for servicemen, is practically not implemented. I say this not so much as a criticism of you as another argument that gives me reason to be concerned as to whether these good intentions that you share as part of the Ministry's policy would be implemented as concrete measures. In this regard, I would like to ask you to give me the value of this complex of internal and external government measures that you have identified, including, of course, the assessment of the necessary means of raising wages, of updating the additional remuneration, anything relating to improving and upgrading the conditions for the implementation of military service, for example in barracks areas. All other measures you have identified with regard to the families of the servicemen in order to know now in the period of preparation of the budget what it is necessary to make as a claim, including from the MPs to the Ministry of Finance for the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the next year, the amount needed to implement this complex of measures. Secondly, I ask you to specify a specific date after which the servicemen will know that these measures will be implemented as a real policy for military servicemen and for those who would be interested in entering the service of the Bulgarian Army.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u99	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Minister, three minutes for the two questions Mr. Naydenov asked you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Naydenov, I have already introduced you that the measures are divided into two. Some are those who depend on the Ministry of Defense, others are those who do not depend on us. That is, all measures that depend on the Ministry of Defence will be taken and taken within a few weeks. I have issued the necessary order after the plan has been developed, specific measures have been set and specific deadlines have been set. As far as the others are concerned, some of them will be resolved, of course, with the change in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, which has already been submitted to the National Assembly and I expect it to be adopted in very short time as early as September. Here I can mention that you MPs have the opportunity to level the indices with concrete proposals and I rely on your will because of the talks and consultations I have held with almost all the parliamentary groups, including the BSP Parliamentary Group, I have received support for this initiative. I hope you will also support this opportunity in this House. If you want, I could tell you other measures that have been taken. First of all, the policy of the Ministry is aimed at preserving the compensation mechanism for servicemen in the discharge of military service. This means 20 gross salaries and the amount of the annual leave of 40 working days. Increasing the application for admission of students is extremely important and it is laid down in our Plan. Minimising restrictions and relief procedures for career development of servicemen, i.e. removing rotation, maximum number of titles, etc. Secondly, expanding the capabilities of the commanders, the superiors for more flexible decisions in managing the career of his subordinates, the servicemen. And that's also at stake in the Plan. In the next place, the possibility of military staff training for sergeants and officers is expanding. And this is also enshrined in the Law that we have offered you. Next, increasing the retirement age of the sergeant's and officer's staff, as we have the greatest shortage there, taking into account the amendments to the Social Security Code. Next, replacement of poor clothing equipment with new quality models, camouflage clothing and other properties for the various types of armed forces. Starting this year, the change of clothing will be carried out as scheduled. We have made the specific decisions in this sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Naydenov, you have two minutes to express your attitude towards the answers of Minister Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, of course I will say thank you for the answer you give not only to me, the MPs in plenary, but also for all those who are interested, and naturally, for the servicemen and members of their families. However, frankly, I am experiencing some confusion as to whether these good intentions that you include, including in the answers to the supplementary questions, would be answered in financial institutions? If it does not come to an agreement between you within the government and therefore your finance minister colleague, it is difficult to expect, including in the plenary, an adjustment of this policy, which will be laid down for 2017. I, of course, undertake to make the relevant proposals and I hope that this will meet the support of colleagues, for example, in terms of indices, it is about indices serving as a basis for the formation of gross wages in the Bulgarian army, aligning with the employees of the Ministry of Interior with an obvious injustice. I will allow myself to add why this issue is not just about indices, but about motivation and interest policy, it is so important. Because it is obvious that when there is an incompetence, this affects the process of preparation and training, affects the fighting ability, affects the extent and the way the responsibilities and tasks of the Bulgarian army are fulfilled. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And this is in direct connection with the security of citizens and the state. We therefore need to have a degree of clarity and, accordingly, full responsibility when we are debating this issue, including in committees and in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u103	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. We continue with the parliamentary control questions to the Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev. The next question is from the National Representative Miho Mihov concerning failure to comply with the provisions of the Civil Aviation Act by the authorised ministers. Here you are, General, to develop the matter to Minister Nenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent decades there have been radical changes in the use of the airspace of the Republic of Bulgaria and that of the Union countries. Both in military technical and economic terms, it was necessary to harmonise its use by the civil, military and so-called small service. Due to the complexity of air traffic management, the dynamic change in weather conditions, the possible failure of aircraft in flight and due to the economic problems we are focusing on this issue, it is imperative that the use of the airport network in our country of all kinds of aviation. For this reason, the legislator has provided in Chapter 4 "Airports" art. 43, para. 6 of the Civil Aviation Act expands this problem and resolves it with a regulation. To my surprise and bitterness, the ministers of four governments of the Republic of Bulgaria have failed to comply with the provisions of this Law. My question to you, Mr Minister, is: which pair of ministers of defence and transport, information technology and communications will implement the above-mentioned article of the Law, which reads: the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Minister of Defence lays down the terms and conditions for the joint use of civil airports for public use and military airports, as well as for the operation of flights of civil and aircraft to and from military airports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u105	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. You're right, right in time. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u106	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihov! I wish I could give you a brief answer that, together with Minister Moskovski, we will complete this process. The provision you mentioned, which is art. 43, para. 6 of the Civil Aviation Act provides that defence, transport and information technology ministers and communications determine the terms and conditions for the joint use of civil airports for public use and military airports, as well as for the operation of civil aircraft flights to and from military airports. By order of the ministers, several interdepartmental expert groups were created with the task of creating a draft of such an act. At this point, this act has not yet been issued and you are right. As a major problem with the working group, the non-compliance of military airports with the requirements of the Chicago Convention, the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Regulations of the International Civil Aviation Organisation is outlined. As required, civil aircraft may land only at airports certified for admission. As military airports do not have such a certificate, they should be certified by the General Directorate of the Air Administration. However, this will involve an impossible cost for the Ministry of Defence's budget. In addition, European standards require the existence of a national supervisory authority to carry out independent control and licensing at all airports within the country. In this regard, I would like to inform you that by my order an interdepartmental expert group has been established to prepare changes in the regulatory framework and the regulatory base regulating aviation with state aircraft. The Working Group has provided a report and a coordination procedure with the relevant Directorates is ongoing at the Ministry of Defence. When these procedures are completed, the results will be analysed, the appropriateness of the proposals will be assessed and a political decision will be taken. To conclude, I must emphasise that the creation of modern, safe and modern aviation can only be achieved through close cooperation between institutions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mihov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Thank you for this guarantee, Mr. Minister, that this pair of ministers will complete or implement the Civil Aviation Act under the specified member. I wouldn't allow myself to pass the matter easily, since this is not about using civil aviation airports with passengers, but there are cases of an emergency when a civilian plane could land on Plovdiv when there was no one in the middle of the night to guide it, but on Second, this airport is located in a plant..Avionams, which manufactures and repairs aviation equipment. There's no way for a transport plane to dispatch a ready-made equipment and bring in a repair fund. That is why this article is really imperative, and to recall other violations in my view. The Bulgarian military aviation, however, last year and last year was based at Sofia Airport to perform an air parade. If an emergency situation had happened, an accident or an accident, this member is very committed to you as a minister and your other colleague. That wasn't the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? Then we move on to the next question to the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev. He is from the National Representative Velizar Enchev regarding the sending of Bulgarian soldiers to the distribution of NATO land brigade in Romania without a decision of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u110	Minister, during a meeting of NATO member states' military ministers, you said that Bulgaria is ready to participate with up to 400 troops in the land brigade of the Pact on the territory of Romania. As later became known, this brigade also plans to have divisions of Poland, Romania, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia. My question to you, Minister, is this: is there a government decision to send a Bulgarian company to the NATO Brigade in question? Since Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, why are you making such a commitment to our NATO partners, since the National Assembly has neither discussed nor voted on such a decision, first in the Parliamentary Defence Commission, secondly, in plenary? I immediately make the clarification that, at the time of the submission of this issue to the National Assembly, such a decision of the Council of Ministers, not to speak about Parliament, was not. Therefore, I believe that you have no right to undertake any commitments to send Bulgarian military abroad without a decision of the Council of Ministers and without the sanction of the National Assembly. Since you will answer me that this is about rotation, let me say that the rotation principle of sending Bulgarian soldiers abroad does not exclude the sanction of the National Assembly and I immediately give you proof. In Afghanistan, the Bulgarian Army is also rotating with its contingents, but this is done with a single consent, sanction of the National Assembly. In short, Mr. Minister, you exceed your rights as a military minister by demonstrating neglect of the National Assembly, forgetting that Bulgaria is a parliamentary Republic and parliament decides and the ministers perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u111	Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, the essence of the Romanian initiative is the creation of a multinational brigade for training, I stress, and training of the participating formations according to the Alliance's uniform standards. It was supported by NATO defence ministers by the contribution of this brigade from each member on a voluntary basis. At the present stage, an assessment of the possibility of joining a battalion is being carried out, as you mentioned, up to 400 soldiers from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, on a rotational basis, for participation and training in that brigade. Note that the battalion remains permanently distributed in Bulgaria and under full national command in the formations of our armed forces. Its contribution is not related to any additional financial costs. Romania, as a framework country, shall ensure the financial costs of all its battle formations and those for combat and logistical support. Within NATO, accession is seen as a peacetime agreement to conduct joint preparations to enhance interoperability. The process of peaceful accession should be examined separately and independently of the process of generating forces for a specific NATO operation. In relation to your question for a decision of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly, it should be borne in mind that according to art. 63 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the performance of allied obligations arising from an international treaty, ratified, promulgated and entered into force for the Republic of Bulgaria, establishing an alliance of political-military nature, sending and using of armed forces outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is authorised by the Council of Ministers. This means that in each particular case the participation of the battalion in this multinational brigade outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will be necessary for the adoption of an act of the Council of Ministers. The Ministry of Defence has strictly complied with the requirements of the Bulgarian legislation concerning the participation of military formations by our Armed Forces in NATO military activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u114	Mr. Minister, I continue to take the view that the National Assembly should have the last word for both sending Bulgarian troops abroad and accepting our territory of American soldiers. I say this because you stated on your same visit to Warsaw and made a commitment that Bulgaria will accept in Bulgarian territory up to 5000 soldiers from the US Armored Division in Bulgaria, in two parts....................................................................................... For this reason, since I refer to art. 84 of the Constitution, which states that the National Assembly authorised the dispatch and use of Bulgarian armed forces outside the country, as well as the residence of foreign troops on the territory of the country or their passage through it, a week ago I submitted to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of allied foreign armed forces, by which changes I propose exclusively and only the National Assembly to allow the sending of Bulgarian contingents abroad and the adoption of foreign troops, by eliminating the so-called. 2 et c. 3 The powers of the Council of Ministers and of the Ministry of Defence, which now, under this Law, have the right to make such decisions, both the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Defence. However, I continue to argue that Bulgaria is a parliamentary Republic and in the conditions in which we live at the moment, of extreme tensions on the territory of the Republic of Turkey with military status, of extreme tensions in the so-called South and Eastern flanks of NATO and the Black Sea, of which there is an exclusive responsibility for the North Atlantic Pact, and not other countries, I believe that Bulgaria and the National Assembly should now have the last word and make any decision to send Bulgarian military abroad even one person, and of the acceptance of foreign contingents in Bulgaria, even ten people or one company, because we are talking about the security of Bulgarian citizens, about peace and security in our region of the Balkans and the Black Sea. So I hope that the National Assembly will very recently examine my Draft Law on a change in the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of foreign troops so that the ministers cannot stand above parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u115	And I thank you, but you should have stuck to the question, not told bills on your own initiative. Mr. Minister, come on in. You have the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, let me be very clear one more time. This is the purpose of the North Atlantic Pact.. to conduct common training and teachings in the territories of different countries. Just as we accept in Bulgaria Romanian, American, English and Polish servicemen as well as our servicemen visit different countries. However, let me point out once again that this is an idea that will probably take place next year. All initiatives, training and general exercises are planned by the end of the previous year. That is, at the end of this year, we will know exactly where and how many soldiers we will participate with. Then, for each particular case, when we send out... whether it will be 10, 15, 20 or 100 soldiers, we must take a sanction and a decision from the Council of Ministers. At least at this stage, the legislation in force regulates things in this way. From then on, your initiatives will, of course, be discussed in the National Assembly, and if you receive support, we will respect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Defence is from the MP Miho Mihov about the state of the officer corps in the defence system and its personnel development. Here you are, Mr. Mihov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, there is hardly anyone more responsible than the government right now to secure the potential of personnel for the defence sector and hence the national security system. Without being edifying, I would say that in recent years, yes, the government is undertaking both organisational and functional measures to stabilise the sector in this regard. Along with this, due to the change of the strategic environment and the regional plan, the functions and tasks of the Bulgarian Army are constantly increasing, constantly increasing. You, along with the government, are ready to assist both the Ministry of Interior and our allies in various ideas concerning collective defence. But we are worried about the fact that in recent years at the National Military University it has dramatically reduced the flow of personnel for the occupation officer. And this year, despite the desire of the Ministry of Defense to increase the number to 260, 400 people are applying. After the preliminary changes and receptions there are 230 people left. We are going to the paradox that for one seat for a Kurssant officer will apply one less down, which is unacceptable for this profession that we have exercised and which is our honor and our pride. My question to you is: are the government and the President of the Republic of Bulgaria aware, as supreme commander of the armed forces, of the negative trend and the actual state of the officer's corps in the defence system and its personnel development, and if the answer is yes, what measures will be taken regarding the future of the officer's profession?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihov, I have already answered that question in answer to Mr. Naydenov's question. Yes, with all the documentation we adopted during the Defence Council, both the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister and the entire Defence Committee are familiar. You also received the report and the relevant action plan. I fully share your concern, dear Mr. Mihov. We are doing everything we can to overcome this negative trend. First of all, I would like to thank you for the question, because I am sure that the more we talk about the people in defence and discuss the problems, the greater our concern for them and the likelihood of finding adequate solutions. Currently, the problems with the assembly of the Armed Forces personnel concern mainly the posts for the servicemen, mainly officers, where the filling is 84%. The data shows that the higher military failure is ranked Lieutenant Colonel and Commander III. At the Round Table held on 14 March 2016, the Educational Policy of the Ministry of Defence and responsibilities towards national security addressed issues related to the military education system. The results of the Round Table were announced and further options for the completion of the armed forces with officers were established by a report note, as follows. By officers' candidates, sergeant, sergeant, soldier or matron's staff, having a higher civil education, an education degree, a Bachelor's degree, and a higher........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These servicemen are scheduled to continue their training at pò next stage until the requirements for the regulated profession are met. For the completion of the reserve with officers from students studying in the higher military schools with a period of training up to 1000 hours and the acquisition of a professional qualification degree from the reserve. Next, by citizens who have acquired higher education, educational and qualification degrees "Bachelor's" or higher in specialties for which training is not carried out in higher military schools, with a period of training of up to 800 hours for officers from the career professional field. By means of additional options, it is expected with minimal financial means to improve the status of non-completion with officers for the armed forces due to the use of civil education and qualification already held by persons or servicemen. As I have already mentioned, the issues of non-completion were raised and discussed at two meetings of the Defence Council held in June this year, which examined a report-analysis of the problems of the assembly of the armed forces with personnel and adopted a Plan to address the problems of the assembly of the personnel of the armed forces. I believe that the measures taken under the Plan and the programme previously adopted will give concrete results and we will soon find at least a partial solution to these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Mihov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask this question not about the general state of the army, which was actually discussed in the answer to Mr. Naydenov, but about the genesis of the problem. Today I know that in Veliko Tarnovo is produced another class of students, as they say: "Welcome to the Bulgarian army! " But they're a handful. What I said next year I don't think we'll have 260 candidates, because there'll be fewer fit. The point is that when we adopt and debate the Defence and Armed Forces Act today, palliative measures are taken. The status of the students has been improved, but in the so-called civilized discussion of the Bill, we have raised the question that students no longer have the so-called free travel, no need. Naturally, I will put this issue between the two votes. The issue is not to reassure us that we return to the army the fathers who were discharged 10 years ago 15 years ago, but that we should bring the sons with a calling and with pride that they will be officers of the Bulgarian army. This is the real model we need to master at the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u123	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u124	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Mihov, I cannot help but express my satisfaction from your concern, from the concerns of the MPs in the Defence Committee, some of whom are here. I believe that we will succeed in common efforts! Our commitment to raising the issue during parliamentary control is an extremely clear and strong sign to the Bulgarian servicemen, to the Bulgarian youths who would decide to engage in the profession of serviceman. I believe that with this commitment and with the signs we give, we will only contribute. The more we talk about the problems of the armed forces, about the problems related to the Bulgarian servicemen, the easier I hope we will find a way to solve them. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u125	Thank you, Mr. Nenchev. That was the last question to the Secretary of Defense. We will continue with questions to Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, Minister of Environment and Water, but it will happen after the break. I'm calling a 30-minute recess at 12.07. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u126	We continue the meeting with answers to questions from the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. Next is a request from the National Representative Willy Lilkov about the management system, including collection and spending, product fees and licensing fees for recycling of out-of-use motor vehicles in Bulgaria. Here's your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u127	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, my question concerns the so-called..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What's this about? Each car registration pays an environmental fee of about 135 to about 275 BGN. depending on the age and type of the vehicle, which is intended for the vehicle to be recycled when it becomes obsolete. After 2012, however, with the introduction of these eco-taxes, there has been a situation which I think is quite worrying and this is the reason for my questioning. In fact, this ecotax is granted, unfortunately, to only three companies that have received the so-called license from the Ministry of Environment and Water, one of which, notice, has no activity that actually holds about 80% of the market. In other words, these companies are given this ecotax for car recycling activities, which they assign to other companies these activities and are about 60 million. lv. Annually. These companies, on the one hand, own about 80% of the market and many small companies cannot actually have access to this market. On the other hand, there is a paradox on the market there are many other companies, dozens who work without receiving this ecotax and work on profit. And the question arises: how and why have we allowed, why do we allow some companies to work on purely market principles, to buy cars, to recycle them and to gain profits, and other companies that hold the monopoly in this business to receive this money, I stress, 60 million. lv. average annual, by consumers. On the other hand, as far as I know, about 15 companies have requested a licence from the Ministry of Environment and Water to be able to receive this product fee, even though the Ministry has put in place a guarantee of about 1 million. BGN, which practically makes it possible for the smallest companies to not be able to touch this market at all. The Ministry has refused 15 such requests. Moreover, several companies have already condemned the Ministry of Ecology even to the Supreme Administrative Court at second instance. That's what my questions are about.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u128	Ask the question directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u129	Why in four years have licenses been issued for recycling out-of-use cars to only three companies? And secondly, how citizens and companies can obtain information about the expenditures of the product fee, provided that the Law says so: The information serves only for the purposes of this Law, taking the necessary organisational and technical measures for that. Only persons who have signed an oath of secrecy shall be allowed to work with such information in cases where required by law. In other words, even information about how public money is being spent, we are not able to obtain it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u130	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. I left you about one minute more because the topic is important, but I will ask you later to formulate further questions. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u131	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, I begin by saying that you yourself have repeatedly referred to the Waste Management Act. It is a Law which regulates activities that are related to the collection, recycling and recovery of widespread waste. Currently in Bulgaria there is a system for separate collection, recycling and recovery of mass distribution waste, including: out-of-use packaging, motor vehicles, non-usable batteries and batteries, out-of-use electricity and electronic equipment. The targets for the collection, recycling and recovery of all streams of widespread waste shall be fulfilled. Persons placing products on the market after the use of which mass waste is generated may fulfil their obligation to separate collection and treatment, according to the principle of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Currently, recovery organisations are operating with permits, as you have mentioned, and an entity is authorised for individual work in this sector. Market participants have the right to choose which system to join. State-defined product charges, which you also quoted and paid to the Environmental Action Management Company, are laid down in the Ordinance on the definition of the order and amount of payment of a product fee. In cases where debtors are members of recovery organisations, they shall pay remuneration which shall be determined on a market basis. With regard to recovery organisations, increased requirements have been introduced given that these organisations fulfil the obligations not to one but to many debtors and this affects the fulfilment of national recovery and recycling targets and there is a risk of significant sanctions for the State in the event of their possible failure. On your first question, the granting of the authorisation to the entities depends entirely on the fulfilment of the requirements which are fully listed in the rules of art. 16, 17, 81 and 82 of the Waste Management Act. And currently, applications are being examined in accordance with the provisions of the Law. There are grounds for non-compliance with these requirements in the given refusal decisions, which are publicly available on the Ministry's website. Seven of these refusals have entered into force as unwarranted or confirmed by the court. Four of the ordered refusals of the proceedings have not been completed. In the cases closed with the annulment of the refusals, the instructions of the court for a new ruling shall be duly complied with. In the cases of a subsequent refusal, the court expressly stated that there was no failure to comply with a judgment. Since the entry into force of the regulations on end-of-life motor vehicles, there have been periods during which different organisations and different organisations have worked. It is normal, after introducing new and higher requirements in legislation, especially those introduced in 2012, that some organisations have failed to comply with these requirements. The Ministry of Environment and Water is involved in the assessment of the lawful conduct of the activities by the applicants concerned and the subsequent control. In this capacity, the Ministry shall exercise its powers. There are companies with authorisation issued, with refusals issued, with orders to comply with the objectives and those with orders for non-compliance with the objectives with the relevant legal consequences. A review of the implementation of the extended responsibility of the manufacturer at European level shows that in the Member States work from one to three collective systems, which shows that the practice and market distribution are similar to those in Bulgaria. With regard to the quantities of waste collected and recycled on the market, the expenditure spent on waste activities for end-of-life motor vehicles and for all other mass waste, the information is publicly available under the Waste Management Act, according to the annual reports of the Environment Executive Agency, the implementation of the objectives is verified, you know, and the Regulation on end-of-life motor vehicles has provisions to ensure access to the summary information. And not only that. Perhaps here it is appropriate to mention that, once again, in order to achieve more publicity and transparency since the beginning of the year, the new information system has been introduced in the Waste Executive Agency. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It's being introduced step by step. Its work starts on 3 May and will have a special module for the end-of-life motor vehicles, where all information will be available by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u132	You have the floor, Mr. Lilkov, to ask two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, you have invoked European legislation and European practice. I'll tell you about the practice. In European countries, the ecotax, first of all, is much lower than that in Bulgaria. Bulgaria is one of the countries with the highest ecotax. Secondly, in many countries of the European Union there is no such ecotax, and where it is introduced, it is introduced mainly to achieve what is called the Shreding and the burying of hazardous waste. There is no such procedure in Bulgaria. My question is this: do you think that in Bulgaria the product fee is cost-oriented, as this should be a fee within the meaning of the Law? I argue that the product fee in Bulgaria is not cost-oriented on the following fact: there are currently companies on the market that pay even citizens when they hand over their car, recycle the car and are therefore profit-making, and on the other hand, we are all citizens, companies and the state, we give 60 million. lv. Each year to companies to carry out the same activity without paying the people who surrender their cars. So, my question is this: are there precise calculations that prove that this fee is cost-oriented in keeping with the fact that other companies working on the market do not receive this product fee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u134	You're welcome to answer the additional question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Lilkov! First of all, it is good to clarify that the product charge, as set out in the Product Charges Ordinance, applies to all types of widespread waste. These are the fees payable in the environmental protection activities undertaken in two cases: when an entity decides to pay directly this ecotax in the PUP, or in cases where someone fails to fulfil its obligations, it is obliged to pay the amount of this ecotax. Otherwise, entities work on the market, remuneration is paid to organisations by their members. In my opinion, they are mistakenly referred to as "use fees'. These remunerations shall be negotiated on a market basis. The Ministry of Environment and Water cannot influence their size because they are formed on the basis of contractual relationships. At the same time, the norm of the Waste Management Act introduced a ban on the waste recovery organisation for distribution of profits. In other words, their costs must be fully cost-oriented, which is verified by auditors. You know, their reports need to be accompanied by audit reports, follow-up of targets and report targets accordingly. In case of non-compliance, permits shall also be revoked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u136	You have the floor, Mr. Lilkov, to express your attitude to the minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, as a whole I can say that I am dissatisfied with the debate we have had because I believe it, based on all the expertise that I have collected, that the product fee, or the so-called ecotax for recycling cars, is not cost-oriented, there is no need for it, even if there is no need for it in many European countries, there is no need for such a fee in Bulgaria. Please note this recommendation, which was sent by the national Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova and Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, and to the President of the National Assembly in relation to this particular ecotax, to pay attention to the letter that will be provided to you by the Ministry of Economy a year ago, which is also pronounced on the topic. I hope I can say that I am sure that I will continue to work in this area, to reach consensus on the necessary amendments to the Law. Moreover, regarding citizens' awareness of how 60 million public money is spent per year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u138	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. The word has to ask Ivan Ivanov about the construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Vidin. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! My question is about building a waste water treatment plant in Vidin. Dear Minister, in 2013 the procedure for design and construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Vidin started. The project is implemented within the framework of the project "Rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewerage system in the town of Vidin " which is funded under Operational Programme "Environment 2007 "2013 " with a contract for grant financial assistance. This project is extremely important and is part of a joint project for the water cycle of the town of Vidin. The sewage treatment plant will serve about 56,000 equivalent inhabitants. The implementation of the project is expected to significantly improve the quality of life of people and also infrastructure in the area where the project is implemented. In the light of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: at what stage of implementation is the project, when is its construction expected to be completed and the introduction into operation of the waste water treatment plant in the city of Vidin? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u140	Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Vidin Municipality is a beneficiary of the project for rehabilitation and expansion of the water supply and sewerage system in Vidin, funded by Operational Program A grant agreement between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Municipality of Vidin was concluded for the implementation of the project on 26 November 2012 and the value of the project was 39.7 million. lv. Two infrastructure components are included in the project: construction of a new sewage treatment plant and reconstruction and extension of the water supply and sewerage network of the town of Vidin. The benefits of the project implementation are related to fulfilling the requirements of the Urban Waste Water Treatment Directive in sensitive areas and reducing pollution in cross-border areas. Of course, and improve the quality of life of the population and protect public health. Within the first programming period, one of the components was implemented and the site was put into operation at the end of last year. A water network with a total length of 25 km was laid. Unfortunately, however, I have to point out that the site was not implemented within the last programming period. Father around 30% physical execution from the scope of the Treaty. The reasons for this are: delay in signing a contract with a contractor, as well as insufficient administrative capacity and poor control by the municipality. However, the main and essential reason was the irresistible delay in the implementation of the construction and assembly works under the building worker's work programme. To date, the contract for design and construction of the treatment plant has been terminated by the contracting entity. For the site is signed Act "Model 10" to establish the condition of construction when the construction is stopped. In order to continue the implementation of the site, the municipality plans to conduct a public procurement contract for the selection of a new contractor under the Law on Public Procurement. You know that in order to save risk projects after active communication with responsible services in the European Commission, the Ministry was able to get the green light and approval to phase eight projects launched in the old programming period. One of them is the project for Vidin Municipality. Through the phase of the project the municipality is provided funds for its completion, which should otherwise be provided by the municipal budget, and we all well understand that this is an impossible financial burden for the beneficiary. To this end, the Municipality of Vidin submitted a project proposal. It was appreciated. There is a decision by the Head of the Managing Authority to grant a grant of 17,9 million. lv. implementing the second phase of the project, namely the completion of a sewage treatment plant. We are fully prepared to sign a grant agreement with the municipality. According to the indicative schedule presented by the Municipality of Vidin to the project proposal, the deadline for completion of the waste water treatment plant is 20 months. That is why I hope for the mobilization of the municipality, because I also support you in the opinion that this is extremely important and strategic, I would say, a project for the region, given that it is also located along the Danube River. It is extremely important that we end this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u142	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u143	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Madam Minister, I'm pleased with the answer you gave. I very much hope that the new Project will be implemented in a shorter period of 20 months. Indeed, the treatment plant is part of a common water cycle project of Vidin and needs to start its implementation as soon as possible, because Vidin is a city with high groundwater and every spring there are created some extremely big problems caused by the lack of such a treatment facility. In this regard, I make an appeal to you: You, your ministry, your employees methodically, administratively to assist Vidin Municipality in the realization of this important for Vidin Municipality Project, which serves a large part of the residents of Vidin, so that within a period of time it can be implemented and Vidin has a treatment plant for water treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u144	Would you like a hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Be assured that the team of the Ministry of Environment and Water and the Managing Authority of the Operational Program will continue to work with the Municipality of Vidin as we have always worked with the beneficiaries in continuous communication mode, dialogue, good partnership. We will assist the municipality to the maximum extent quickly to complete this project. In the past few days, I have seen the mayor of the municipality, who has informed me that they are also willing to launch the public procurement, which gives the opportunity, of course, if there are no appeals, delays and so on, to start construction activities quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. We move on to a question from the National Representative Ivan Stankov regarding ensuring unconditional public access to information about the spending of the funds accumulated from the calculations under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act, which municipalities have a monthly obligation to transfer to the local environmental inspection account for disposal of waste for disposal of regional or municipal depots. It's a very long question, but you'll be able to complete it further, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u147	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The method and amount of collections for disposal of disposal waste are set out in a special issue by the Ministry of Environment and Water for this purpose Ordinance No 7 of 19 December 2013. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 of the Ordinance has been determined the amount of collections due for each deposited tonne of waste for the period up to 2020 and for each subsequent year, as well as the cases where the calculations are paid in double amounts. The municipal waste collections due during the disposal of waste accumulate through the annual waste charge paid by the population, public and private entities on the territory of the municipality. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 of the same Ordinance, the Director of the RIEW undertakes to publish information on the website of the regional inspection on the collected, payable, spent secured charges every three months on a specific template. However, there are no provisions providing public access to the decisions of the relevant RIEW to provide the funds from the accumulated deductions under art. 64. There is also no public access to RIEW decisions to reduce the amount of partially implemented calculations in the region concerned for the purpose of reducing the amount of depopulated disposal waste, according to art. 64, para. 5 of the Waste Management Act. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures will the Ministry of Environment and Water take in order to ensure regulatoryly unconditional public access to the information to spend the funds accumulated from the calculations under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act for each given tax entity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u148	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. Madam Minister, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u149	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stankov, access to information regarding the spending of the funds accumulated from the calculations is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Waste Management Act and its implementing regulations, the Environmental Protection Act and the Public Information Access Act. As you quoted the Law, according to the provision of art. 64, para. 1 of the Waste Management Act, the disposal of waste at a regional or municipal landfill for non-hazardous waste and landfills for construction waste are due to charges in amount and in order laid down by Decree No 7 on the order and method of calculating and determining the amount of collateral and charges required for disposal of waste. Public access to the information to spend the funds on the calculations under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act is secured by the standard of art. 29 of the Ordinance, according to which the Director of Regional Inspection publishes information on the website of the Regional Inspection for collected, due and spent charges every three months. This information is available on the pages of regional environmental inspections and leads and everyone has access to it. As regards the order of access to the information and decisions by which the Director of the relevant regional environmental inspection and conducts consent or refusal to provide funds from the calculations under art. 64 of the Waste Management Act, respectively gives consent or refuses to reduce the amounts due or determines their amount for the accounting year, it is regulated in Chapter 2 17 everyone has the right to access the available environmental information without having to prove a particular interest. At present, the information contained in the above-mentioned decisions is classified as official public information within the meaning of the Public Information Access Act. Not only that, precisely for the purpose of more transparency and disclosure of the decisions of the competent authorities, is currently in the process of amending Regulation No 7, as in the draft regulation developed by the working group, it is intended to replace the obligation of the directors of regional environmental inspections and leads to publish on the website of the regional inspection the reasoned decision giving consent or refusing the allocation of the funds from the calculations. I expect the amendment to the Ordinance to be adopted in mid-August. As far as the decisions of the municipalities themselves are concerned, that is, the applications for the use of the calculations, you know that they are the subject of a decision of the municipal councils, the waste management associations respectively, and are of a public nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u150	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Stankov, you have an opportunity to reply within two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Madam Secretary. You have given a comprehensive answer to my question. The issue was provoked by the meetings we have with citizens, with municipalities, and especially with non-governmental organisations, they pose this problem seriously. The question of access to information is also raised by representatives of the Bulgarian Industrial Association. They believe that there are really restrictions, and what is being done for example in the Plovdiv region is given very detailed information, recommend to become a popular practice for the whole of Bulgaria. I think people should be informed, and you are convinced of that. The maximum really needs to be done, especially when it is paid, when people spend money, they need to know what is going on with these funds. Thank you for what you did. You have provided detailed information about the waste that arrives from Italy about the death of the dolphins. Let more often public information be presented in order to inform people and know what is going on in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u152	Thank you, Mr. Stankov. You have an opportunity for attitude. Two minutes for the doppelganger, Mrs. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u153	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Stankov, thank you for your recommendations. I certainly share your understanding that maximum publicity and transparency is needed. That is precisely where we are working, including the amendments that will be introduced to the Ordinance that I mentioned. I expect the ordinance of calculations to be fully ready, presented in a report by the working group at the beginning of August, after which it will be published for public discussion. In this sense, if there are additional proposals, of course, we are ready to reflect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u154	Thank you. We continue with the next question to Minister Vasileva. He is from the National Representative Georgi Kovachev and is about issuing permissions to organisations for the recovery of end-of-life motor vehicles. Here you go, Mr. Kovachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I will extend the theme that my colleague Willy Lilkov referred to concerning the granting of authorisations to organisations for the recovery of obsolete motor vehicles. In short, in order for a company to be authorised as an organisation for the recovery of obsolete motor vehicles, it must meet a number of criteria set out in Section III of the Law. It is impressive, however, that to date back, there are only three such organizations on the market, among which, among other things, there is a close link and appear on many indicators related persons. The website of the Office entrusted to you shows that 13 companies have been refused authorisation. There would be no doubt if these refusals were, however, legal or were confirmed by a competent Supreme Administrative Court. Something quite different, however, gives the reference from that court. In cases of closed cases, he has annulled your refusals, and in his reasons he has given detailed arguments regarding the unlawfulness of your administrative acts. The decisions of the court shall enter into legal force immediately after their confirmation of the final instance and the file shall be returned to you with instructions to pronounce. In this regard, my questions are as follows: Firstly, why is such a monopoly allowed in the end-of-life vehicle recovery sector, allowing only three companies to carry out such activities? My second question is: why are legal decisions not implemented and no authorisations are issued for organisations for the recovery of obsolete motor vehicles of those companies that have won cases in court against the refusals issued by the Supreme Administrative Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u156	Thank you, Mr. Kovachev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u157	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kovachev, as you mentioned, the question complements or relates to the question asked earlier, so much of the information I have provided may also be useful to you. The management of end-of-life motor vehicles is regulated in the Waste Management Act and the Ordinance on end-of-life motor vehicles in which the End-of-life Vehicle Directive is transposed. Persons placing products on the market after the use of which widespread waste is generated may fulfil their obligations in the three ways I have cited, i.e. individually, by being a member of a recovery organisation or by paying their product fee. As regards the matter concerning procedures, yes, they are detailed in the Waste Management Act. Of course, it refers to the period of 2012. Following the amendment of the Waste Management Act, you yourself know that quite severe requirements were laid down for organisations wishing to obtain permission to operate as waste recovery organisations. Compliance with all these conditions is absolutely imperative and the reason for the refusals, when given, is the non-compliance with one or more of these conditions. In particular, a decision to grant authorisation in the event of non-compliance with some of the conditions laid down would be a breach of the obligation of the administrative authority. Regarding your claim of close link and related parties between the existing organisations, there is no indication of specific facts or concrete evidence of this. We do not have information, but if you have it, do not hesitate to provide it to us, as well as the other competent institutions. With regard to legal requirements, anyone meeting them may be authorised to carry out the relevant activity, which is typical for all types of authorisation regimes. The activities of the recovery organisations are not for economic benefit. There are strict provisions for what type of organizations these are. They are at stake in art. 16, p. 2 of the Waste Management Act, which lays down strict requirements for what the founding act of the recovery organisation should contain. As a condition, it is unconditionally and imperative that these are organizations that cannot distribute profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u158	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Kovachev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u159	Dear Minister, I will provide you with information on connectivity. I'm not saying that this is forbidden, but the case is very specific.. three companies that have real connectivity. I'll give you this information in the Ministry. My question was quite specific yes, a firm has applied, received a refusal. I'm familiar with half the files. I can quote you on solutions, but I'm going to do this documentaryly. My question was: the procedure you refused has once again passed through the Supreme Administrative Court. Once they've returned it to you with a court-martial order that cancels your refusal, from now on, what are you going to do? What's next? If you do not make a decision, then the company is already going to court in Strasbourg. That's my specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u160	Thank you. Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u161	Thank you, I think there is a clear answer to this question in the rule of law that decisions of the court must be carried out. If the court decides that the administrative body must rule, it must rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u162	An additional question has been presented to my report. Madam Minister, are you ready for an answer? You've been informed. Okay. I am continuing with a question by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on air pollution in the district of Divedapavo, town of Shumen. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u163	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I hope we're not creating confusion because we've learned that there's been a reformation of the issue from one species to another. Once ready, I hope this will be good for both sides of both the questioner and the responsible one. Dear Minister, on 1 July 2016, the regional landfill for household waste near the district of Divdadovo is set on fire, the city of Shumen. As a result of the fire, there is a serious smoky formation, which mainly affects the district of the city of Shoumen and several sections of the town of Shoumen where it is felt. Ends the concession contract of the previous operator's depot, another enters. The city has to deal with it. Maybe there'll be some difficulties. I hope this doesn't happen. We have a doubt that the burning continues. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures has RIEW taken to establish the extent of air pollution? In what way? Was there a danger to the health of the residents of the district of Div Grandpa? Then I will insist on answering why I quote exactly the district of Divdawovo for the period 1 July 2016. 7 July 2016 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u164	Thank you. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, regional landfill for non-hazardous waste, Shumen, serves the municipalities of Shumen, Smyadovo, Veliki Preslav, Hitrino, Kaolinovo, Kaspican, Venets, Novi Pazar and is owned by Shumen municipality. According to a concession contract of the municipality of July 2001, concluded between the municipality of Shumen and the municipality of Titan BCCS. On the actions taken by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection in the city of Shumen on the emergency situation on 2 July this year following a registered alert in the Regional Inspection issued by telephone 112 for the presence of a suffocating smell and smoke from the district of Divedapavo, a team of experts and officers of the inspection was immediately organized and an on-the-spot inspection was carried out. The verification showed the presence of white smoke with a source of landfill, local outbreaks in boxes 1 and 2 over an area of about 200 square meters. No visible flames have been detected from the burning of depopulated waste. Organically, no acute and suffocating smell has been detected. The likely cause of the fire is deep combustion in the body of the depot due to natural processes and high temperatures. The ignition occurs as a result of non-compliance by the operator with the destabilization requirement. The RIEW provides the provisions of the City of Shumen Ltd. to provide sufficient equipment for the management of the fire, to ensure continuous 24-hour duty of the site and to notify the regional inspection of the planned measures to remove and prevent such new self-startings. Following strict follow-up checks carried out by day-to-day checks between 2 and 20 July 2016, measures were found to be taken to suppress the fire. Additional equipment is provided to thaw the body of the depot and extinguish the outbreak with specialized fire trucks at the regional inspection. The fire is completely localized and severely reduced. On 20 July 2016, by RIEW, Shumen was found to have stopped the smoldering from the depot and the teams of the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. RIEW has drawn up an act of "Titan BCCS" Ltd. for the detected infringement as a result of incorrect operation. A criminal decree is to be issued within a short period of time for imposing a financial penalty on the company of 10 thousand. lv. For the actions taken to establish the atmospheric air quality, the regional inspection shall ensure the publicity of the information on the state of the depot and the findings of the measurements of ambient air quality by means of published press releases on the inspection website. In the extra minutes, I will be able to give you more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u166	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Colleague Ivanov, you have two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u167	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the information you have given us seems quite large and serious, but given the fact that the source for it is RIEW Shoumen, I have some doubt that the management and the people of the regional inspection are misleading you in this information. What do I mean? I personally bothered to visit the dump the day it was the strongest heat of the fire. There was a lot of smoke. I can't say for fire, but the smoke was extremely strong, and the smell that was being felt was strong and suffocating. I am questioning the effectiveness of the actions they have taken with regard to measuring air quality in this pollution. What do I mean? The fire started on July 1st. From 1 July to 7 July, only measurements were made by an automatic station, which is based in the city of Shumen. Due to the characteristics of the relief in Shumen and Shumen Plateau, this automatic station could not make the necessary measurements to establish the actual air quality in the district of Dive grandfatherovo. The delay of nearly one week for the dispatch of the mobile station to measure air quality in the district of Divdadovo, which is remote from the city of Shumen. To these questions, perhaps you should personally seek an answer from the Director of RIEW, as the doubts are not only mine, but the residents of the neighborhood and the media in Shumen are that during this period air pollution was above acceptable standards. There is an element of inactivity on the part of the local management of RIEW regarding the situation with the burning dump. I have information not only from the media, but also from conversations with people that there is insufficient control in relation to the pollution of the depot. I'm going to ask you to do a serious inspection by the Ministry of what's happening at the junkyard, because we have a doubt that the membrane that's under the clogging has been compromised and we have concerns that infiltrating from the landfills there is entering the soil. Our request is to make a serious inspection so that further environmental disaster can be avoided. You know, it's a regional depot, there's a lot of waste being disposed of and the danger to the residents not only of this neighborhood, but of others is pretty serious as well. A more serious assessment should be made by the local inspectorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, you have two minutes to further your answer and take a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, of course, we will arrange an inspection. I am confident that colleagues from the Regional Inspection will organise as quickly as possible an on-the-spot check, if necessary, and experts from the Ministry can be engaged. As far as thawing is concerned, I mentioned that the cause of the fire was caused by natural processes, but provided that there was not regular and sufficient clogging, i.e. the prerequisites for this are created. The information that I have is that the contract of this operator, the company of Titan BCCS and the annex to it are in force until July 22nd, i.e. until today. With effect from 23 July 2016, the management of the regional waste depot for solid municipal waste will be carried out by the municipal enterprise "Cleanness" so that the new operator's commitment will be really strict to fulfill these obligations. About the qualities of the atmospheric air. The data I can provide are according to the measurements made by the located automatic air quality measuring station in Shumen, which monitors the quality, the recorded data for the days of the unorganised emissions from the body of the depot from 2 to 7 July show a recorded excess according to the indicator "fine particulate matter', on 2 July at a limit of 30 milligrams were reported 36. No excesses were found on the other controlled basic air quality indicators. In carrying out the daily checks on 7 July, it was found that the depot continues to maintain a combustion process and that a further measurement of ambient air quality was carried out by the regional laboratory in Shumen on 7 and 8 July. The results of the measurements showed minimal excess methyl mercaptan values, on July 7 the concentration of the remaining measured parameters were below the minimum limit values. In conclusion, I assure you that the Ministry of Environment and Water will continue to strictly respect the principles laid down in environmental legislation and to exercise strict control over activities because they are directly related to both the state of the environment and human health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With this response Mrs. Vassileva's participation in today's parliamentary control, Minister of Environment and Water, has ended. Thanks for that. There are no more questions for you. Under the programme, parliamentary control continues with questions to Mr. Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which will answer, firstly, a question by the National Representative Velizar Enchev concerning the personnel policy and the work with the educational centers of the Executive Agency. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u171	Mr. Minister, this matter has been postponed for the second month. It was introduced on June 1st of this year, but it's still up to date, I'd say, more than current. On 28 February this year, more precisely 2015, I asked you a question about corruption in the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration, which is why hundreds of Bulgarian citizens are killed, hurt and maimed on the country's roads. Then I reminded you that this question and you asked the former Minister of Transport Papazov a year earlier as a representative of the Bulgarian opposition. At that time in plenary you replied that you were not convinced of the guilt of the employees, and a year later you arrested the appointed Executive Director of the Agency Tsvetlin Tsvetanov and found more than 500 thousand in it. lv. This is where the following questions arise. You three times fired Dimitar Ganev: the first time on 16 June 2011 as Deputy Director of the Agency; the second time My question is: with what motives did you release Dimitar Ganev three times and why on May 20, 2016 you re-appointed him as Deputy Director of the Executive Agency, Automobile Administration? Particularly active in the fight against corruption in the Agency, I would like to tell you is the owner of the Training Centre for the Training of Drivers by Stara Zagora Mitko Traykov. My question, related to Mr. Traykov, is this: on what basis for more than a month this training center is denied exam dates, and at other educational centers in Stara Zagora are provided two dates per week and on specific days? Isn't this a corruption scheme, in this case, at local level, but with national dimensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u172	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, you can start today's participation with an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, there is some inaccuracies in the question you have asked, as the person Mr. Dimitar Ganev has never been appointed by me and, respectively, the prerogatives are to be released only to the Executive Director of the Automobile Administration. Once upon a time, I had to release Dimitar Ganev, when I found him, creating this cabinet as a second term, he was in his functions as executive director. Then he applied for a retirement age and it was approved. In all other cases of dismissal and appointment, this is 100% of the executive director's prerogatives, not being done by the Minister, so the last case you have touched on concerns such an action. Mr. Dimitar Ganev was invited to start working again at the Automobile Administration with specific functions and work on specific bills. After the tension created around his name, he once again made the decision to leave. About the Auto School thing. In relation to the signal submitted by Mr. Traykov, a check has already been carried out. The results of the examination show a high probability of improper use of automated scripts for booking an examination committee and when enrolling a candidate for an exam. Using a script is not fraud or manipulation. The practice of other information systems shows that this is an opportunity to facilitate the user in the introduction of a large amount of information. With the information system mentioned, this possibility creates tension and will be blocked. With effect from 3 June 2016, when booking an examination committee, a security mechanism will be introduced for the registration of candidates for an examination in test reports for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence. The introduction of the cited safeguard mechanism is in order to ensure fair and equal access to the information system service. Order No RD-01381 of 26 February 2016 sets a specific time limit for publication of a weekly schedule for theoretical practical examinations, as well as for publication of changes in schedules for each regional unit. In relation to the monitoring of unrealistic load of the information system, it is envisaged the introduction of a new order for publication of the schedule for carrying out theoretical and practical examinations and changes in the published schedules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u174	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Enchev, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u175	Mr. Minister, natural questions arise, which remain unanswered: why is Mr. Kalajdzhiev the Director of Executive Agency Mr. Dimitar Ganev and in less than a month he is released? My question is: has his appointment and subsequent dismissal been agreed with you? Does this mean the Ministry's subordination doesn't exist? After all, Mr. Minister, you are the overseer who oversees and sanctions the directorates and departments of the Ministry. So I ask you: did you sanction Director Kalajdzhiev for what happened there with the appointment and the rapid release of Dimitar Ganev? To recall why Ganev was quickly released, but the nineteen streets in the sale of exams and books from the Regional Directorate in Sofia, which is largely due to the revelations of Mr. Nikolay Kolev, these 19 streets in the sale of exams and books, continue to work there in the Sofia Directorate. Does this mean that you're both firing and reassigning these people? Is this a strong government, or do you allow external influences and external interference in working in your trusted ministry? At the same time people, such as the honourable Mrs. Slavka Andreeva and Mr. Ventsislav Georgiev, continue to work at the Agency despite serious violations in their work. Finally, the most important question: Can you guarantee, Minister, that the corruption practices with the sales of exams and exam dates have been completely discontinued, which is the biggest scourge when it comes to the movement on the Bulgarian roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u176	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Mr. Minister, by the book you have two minutes for the doppelganger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u177	Dear Mr. Enchev, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can guarantee that at the level of political cabinet and government we do everything possible and do not tolerate in any way, we try to fight any kind of corruption practices in any way. Unfortunately, we do not have investigative functions to lead to the level of investigation of the Ministry itself. Here we rely entirely on the cooperation of the bodies of specialized such institutions and on the specific cases that have been in the past, I assure you that I have cooperated fully. Perhaps much of the signals, which, as you quote from Nikolay Kolev and other sources, have come to us, have been referred to competent authorities. I'm guessing that based on them, it's pretty much the realizations. We're doing everything we can... how can I tell you... If there is one person who can come out and say, of course, there are other control bodies in his portfolio, in one part they are in transport, but there are other ministries where they have control bodies, he can state a hundred percent that he ensures that there are no corruption practices there is unrealistic. We're doing everything we can, we're fighting these practices with all our might. Unfortunately at road level, at vehicle level, it is extremely difficult to prevent or... I told you the idea of my and the colleagues with whom we work is to do it, to approach the creation of a more massive control body for work on the road, to include various institutions this body, there already the motivation of the employees to contribute to reducing the corruption pressure on them, as they are with extremely low wages and I hope that something like this will be realized in order to continue the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Next is a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. Here you go, Mr. Gechev. Your question to Minister Moskovski is about the appointment of the Head of the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u179	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Minister, in the second half of March this year during a joint action of DGBOP and DANS and under the direction of the special prosecutor's office 18 employees of the Executive Agency were arrested, including the director of the agency Tsvetlin Tsvetanov. According to published data of the investigating authorities, the action of the group has been extended in several directions from the collection of the fee. In this way, authorisations were granted for all categories, including those for the transport of dangerous goods, the cost of which was 3 thousand. lv. Officials of the Agency have also been appointed for bribery. The Executive Director of the Agency Tsvetlin Tsvetanov was appointed as Head of the scheme by the Prosecutor's Office. The criminal scheme was functioning, according to the investigating authorities, through a well-built network of intermediaries. During the searches, the investigating authorities found the equivalent of 175 thousand. lv. in a different currency in the home of Tsvetanov, as well as a significant amount of money in the home of his father-in-law. The total amount of the funds found is around 400 thousand. lv. In a number of media interviews, you, Mr. Minister, said that your nomination of this agency was for Mr. Frolov, but because of some unidentifiable supernatural factors that you have previously identified, you were hardly subject to Tsvetlin Tsvetanov. The appointment of this post takes place by decision and by order of the minister responsible, that is to say by you, so is the Constitution. It is your sole responsibility to appoint this person, which has proved to be, according to the investigating state authorities, the head of a criminal racketeering group and the accumulation of bribery in huge proportions. In this regard, the following related questions arise, whose answer you owe to society. Firstly, given the public importance of the case, the scale of corruption and, last but not least, the fact that this criminal group is responsible for the fact that there are now potential killers driving on the roads who have purchased their motor vehicle drivers documents, I ask you these questions. If, in your opinion, Mr. Tsvetlin Tsvetanov is a foreign choice, then who exactly, which person dressed in power, over your minister of the press office, has essentially taken your powers as minister, and you have broken the oath you have taken here in Parliament? Why have you transferred these powers to this person? Has this nomination been discussed in the Council of Ministers and, if so, have you submitted the proposal and with what motivation? Secondly, you are obliged to check the personnel records before appointing anyone to this responsible post [[the President signals that time has run out]] Which depends on the security of traffic on the country's roads? Have you checked this personnel records? Was it certified by GERB Party in the city of Pleven and how did you implement this decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u180	Thank you, Professor. We have overdue the time to be comprehensive and clear in your question. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u181	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Gechev, outside the statistical data you have read, absolutely everything else borders on the fantasies you have spoken, absolutely untrue. First of all, I have never stated that any foreign power or extraterrestrial power has given it to me as an offer. Secondly, we've never gone on a type of co-ordination procedure, party procedures and so on. The chronology of events is this: my first proposal was indeed Mr. Florov, not Frolov, as you said. That's probably the kind of person there is, but it's not who I'm talking about. My motives and desire to nominate him were dictated only by the fact that he, working and carrying out his duties to the DGBOP in the previous term, had sufficient prepared and ready information, and a desire, and motivation precisely to combat corruption practices. At this time also under Constitution, as you tell me, my duties are to propose that the Prime Minister approve or not approve such an appointment. And here again you have read something wrong with the criteria and requirements for appointments. On the case at hand. In this case, this proposal was not approved, as the checks on Mr. Florov had not yet been completed at this time. Then we had several other ideas, including the former director of Ruse, who turned out to be a party candidate, a nomination for the mayor of a district in Ruse, respectively we looked at colleagues from Blagoevgrad and other regions. The nomination of Tsvetlin Tsvetanov is mine, I have given the Prime Minister the proposal and he has been appointed. I just want to clarify that what you are commenting on is that there were serious doubts about corruption, at the time of appointment and nomination, such official data did not exist. When he was dismissed by the Director of the Automobile Administration and Pleven in 2013, his services were terminated only because of the closure of his post due to the overall restructuring of the Agency, so they are speculation again what you claim to have ever been fired for corruption. Of course, all that has happened since then is indeed extremely shocking for the transport system, and there is an investigation going on right now, the processes of the case-law are going on to this case, and ultimately what the court proves, whatever the court decides, will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gechev, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u183	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am surprised at your tone of voice appointed by you is scandalizing the whole of Bulgaria. He's got hundreds of thousands of lefts coming out of his three-fronted closet in Dolni Dubnik, and you're pacing some stuff here who suggested it and where he suggested it. Since you're responsible and you suggested it, then you should have resigned. There is no such case in Europe with such a big corruption scandal and you do not have political responsibility. You have just said that you have not been accepted by the Prime Minister for Florov because, you say, his checks have not been completed. Well done, Mr. Minister, he's running around the DA's office, you're offering him as head of the D.I.A. How do you know he's innocent? His accusations were very severe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u184	He's innocent now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u185	Secondly, you offer Tsvetlin Tsvetanov. Where is he right now? It is located with the state authorities, where investigative actions are being carried out and is caught with hundreds of thousands of levs. Your offer! You didn't explain how you found this man, for what was he fired in 2013, how did you appoint him from an unemployed party GERB in Pleven as the boss of Injstroy? How do you find him after that? You didn't see him in Pleven, then the media found out that maybe you were close, you hired him. You find him perhaps on the corner of Moskovska Street and appoint him head of the DAI?! In addition, fellow Member, review your entire personnel policy. You have also appointed Valentin Bozhkov, who is also the subject of an investigation by the Prosecutor's Office. What is it that you twice appoint chiefs of key government agencies, who then deal with the DANS, DGBOP, the entire state machine?! Well, the third, when you hire him, just tell him to raise his hands and head for the nearest unit of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u186	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Minister, two minutes for a duplicate with regard to Mr. Gechev's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u187	First of all, to clarify that in order to come to this realization, which currently creates conditions to conduct this investigation, I have fully cooperated and this is the responsibility that I bear. Mr. Gechev, I'm not even comfortable talking about responsibility because it's you who gives me the morals that you are personally from the people who...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u188	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u189	I'll answer, I'll answer. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] There's someone there to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u190	Answer the question of an MP!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u191	Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u192	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u193	I just wanted to say that I'm wondering if a man with morals who personally participated in ruining the state that made people's three-dollar pensions comes out of this stands to talk about morality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u194	You're lying, they've never been...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u195	Order, please! Please, Mr. Gechev. Mr. Secretary, on that matter, don't stray.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u196	I can't answer that. I'm being interrupted by Mr. Gechev and I can't answer that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u197	I'll take precautions for that, too. Please also focus on the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u198	What I wanted to replicate is that I did not really say that it is easy to work on the corruption pressure that is in the control bodies, but believe me, we are doing everything we can and especially on this particular case, I repeat, we have given maximum and full cooperation. So the hypothesis that we were trying to cover up or prevent anyone from being investigated is exactly the opposite, and we've been fully cooperating with the first serious signals that we've had, we've helped to get to this realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u199	So you hire thieves and then you help catch them?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u200	Thank you. This concludes the procedural opportunity to comment on the issue, Mr. Gechev. [[Reply by MP Rumen Gechev.]] No. That is exactly what I told you that the Rules of Procedure have already been concluded with your question. The next issue of the program is that of the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Stratilov Svilenski. It is addressed to Minister Moskovski and refers to projects under Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013 until 31 December 2015. You're welcome to develop the matter, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Madam Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First, Mr. Minister, I hope that after asking the question you will remain calm and calm, because in the previous question addressed to the Prime Minister, by colleague Ivanov in the form of a declaration, and of a question, he lost his temper and allowed himself to behave rudely, to put it mildly, from this chair.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u202	Mr. Svilensky, your time is running out. Please don't provoke...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u203	So my request is that you really answer the question without unnecessary emotions. Mr. Minister, our question with colleague Ivan Ivanov is related to projects not completed until December 31st under Operational Programme On 31 December 2015 the Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013 was finally completed. Under national rules, projects outstanding and outstanding by that time limit should be completed with the funds of the beneficiaries. Regarding the above, we ask you to answer the following question: which projects under the Operational Programme of the Operational Programme "Transport" 2007-2013 have not been completed within the stated deadline and for what value are the activities to be carried out at the expense of the beneficiary? What are the reasons for non-compliance with the deadline for these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u204	Mr. Minister, your answer to the question of projects, as formulated by the two MPs. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Svilenski, Dear Mr. Ivanov, Gentlemen of the National Assembly! In response to the questions you have asked about the implementation of the Operational Programme The operational programme funds 118 projects, of which 25 investment, 11 large. The projects implemented by 31 December 2015 meet the objectives of the Operational Programme "Transport". The set results have been achieved and conditions and a favourable environment have been created for the development of business, economics and improving the quality of human life. The last two years, all possible efforts have been made towards the substantial completion of the projects in the necessary quality and investment of the entire budget of the Programme. As a result of the active work of all parties involved in the implementation of the Programme, the risk of losing grants was minimized. The implementation of the Operational Programme "Transport" ended with 97% absorption of European funds. Despite the results achieved, the beneficiaries failed to fully invest the entire planned resources for technical assistance, for example the modernisation of railway stations and the construction of the Intermodal terminal within the deadline for eligibility of the costs and the following six investment projects were not completed: with beneficiary National Railway Infrastructure (Railway Infrastructure) is a question of rehabilitation of railway complexes along the TEN-T network; reconstruction of the railway line Parvomay Svilengrad; rehabilitation of sections of the railway line Plovdiv Burgas; modernization of the railway section Septemvri At present, some of these projects have already been completed, which I have just listed, and there are a few months left to complete all the projects I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will line time be used by one of the questioners? Yeah. Mr. Ivanov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u207	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Moskovski, the question was extremely specific and we expected a really more concrete answer from you because of the previous written response of your colleague Tomislav Donchev we have information that all operational programs for this period for such projects, which are not completed within the time frame, from the state or municipal budgets will have to pay 406,57 million. lv. My question was: specifically from your Ministry, what is the share that will have to be paid, naturally, from the state budget, as you are a prime officer? I think you've missed some projects that Mr. Donchev mentioned here. The most important question you have not addressed is: whose responsibility is it, which employee of your Ministry and who will, of course, bear the responsibility for such a loss? Because in the end it is the money of the Bulgarian taxpayers. It is very important, when we quote the absorption rates, to see the final result of these money that is agreed and what is ultimately paid, what has been received by the Ministry and how much has not been used, because you yourself have admitted to six sites, but here I count them a little more, which are not completed in time and should accordingly be at the expense of the beneficiaries. You as a minister may not be aware of the details, but still some of your employees are aware of this situation. If you really find responsibility in his actions, to seek her out so that there may be a specific name and specific actions that you have taken. If you really are ready to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u208	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, you have an opportunity for a duplicate in two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u209	I'll explain right away. Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This isn't about losing money. It's about... Technically, I'll try to explain it to you. Specially for the National Company "Railway infrastructure" the allocation of funding has never been 80 European to 20 national co-financing, as the beneficiary National Company "Railway infrastructure" is a state enterprise that only collects fees from infrastructure. His projects are profitable. This means that when a bone benefit is being prepared, the cost analysis or the cost-benefit analysis, which is part of the application form, when applied for funding in Brussels, the rate of European funding is never 80%. It depends on the revenue-generating factors of the company and is 62 to 38, or 64 to 36, or 65 to 35%. Twenty percent fixed national co-financing stands. This difference, which is derived from European and fixed national co-financing in the various cases, whether it is 18, 16 or 15%... Even at the start of the projects, they were underfunded with this amount. This amount had when the projects were launched, the PMS of the Council of Ministers, which ensured that the state budget would provide it when the time came. And the projects by the end of the programming period actually spent on their implementation precisely the European part of the funding, the fixed 20% provided by the budget. When we reached the end of the period, we made 97% use of the projects, these.. in various cases 15, 16, 18%, with the total amount of 208 million, it was time to use them to be able to complete the projects. They should have been provided from the start. There was a PMS. The point is that until then we could spend what was already fixed in the Law. From this point of view, there is no damage to anyone. There is no damage to the state budget, there is no damage to anything unaccounted for. It's just that that money was made available when everyone else was already exhausted. For the particular case and for the project for the Road Agency 80-20 funding is going away, as the revenue from the wineries does not enter the API, but directly into the state budget and there is prepared PMS to provide 56 million for Gabrovo's tour. But I don't think it's any loss. Either way, you're going to have to give that money, whether it's like co-financing or basically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u210	Thank you. For the procedure Prof. Gechev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct. With respect, you cannot allow ministers reporting to the National Assembly instead of answering questions of public interest to make personal attacks. And Minister Moskovski had to explain why he had appointed a party activist from Pleven to a position and was captured by the authorities of the state with hundreds of thousands of levity bribes. We Bulgarian citizens tremble on the roads every day because your employees sell driving licences! So don't run away from answering the questions, tell me how you let this happen, not attack the MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u212	What is the procedure in the manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u213	Professor Gechev! It seems to me that we exchanged lines regarding the same objection that you made from the spot. Indeed, the procedure for your question has been exhausted. We don't have a chance to get to the point. I ask you to take this into account because this is the provision of the Rules of Procedure that we have adopted. We continue with questions to Minister Moskovski. This is the last question for him by the MP Georgi Svilenski. It is about putting pressure on employees of the Sofia Airport EAD that is the way the question is formulated. We expect it to be developed by the National Representative Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My question to you, Minister, is in the direction of the actions taken at concessionation of the largest Bulgarian airport of national importance for both national security and the economy of the state. Mr. Minister, it has already become clear to all Bulgarians that the policy led by your government is in the direction of Sofia Airport to be concessionated, i.e. to be given into other people's hands. Only there are 2,200 employees working there who don't agree with this thing. Not only these 2200 employees agree, many millions of Bulgarian citizens disagree. You say that your government is right, the policy that you are leading is right, conceiting is the right-wing method of policy, and for this reason you can do whatever you want in the direction of this right-wing. However, I do not know what gives you reason to think that 35 years of Bulgaria will have a right-wing management to take action for 35 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u215	The people! After he's chosen us!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u216	Please...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u217	Mr. Ivanov, you are not involved in parliamentary control. Please, either go to the last row or, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u218	I've already made a remark. Please, Mr. Ivanov, for silence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u219	In this regard, Mr. Minister, the employees at Sofia airport were willing to organise protest actions in connection with this decision of the government. My question to you is: has the company's management been pressured to prevent airport employees from participating in strike action against the concession and have they been restricted to the rights of union and civil activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u220	That was your question. Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Svilensky! In principle, I do believe that the concession is the right method to attract and implement a public private partnership for the management of transport infrastructure, especially when the state is required to make these investments, and it could be made by private economic entities. By the way, to tell you the truth, I don't know if it's right-wing politics. I believe that the right-wing policy is when the state is becoming less involved in the management of this infrastructure, but in principle it seems to me that the concession is a universal procedure because during the management of BSP you implemented it very successfully with the airports in Varna and Burgas. So I don't know if we should be talking about concessions. As we wish and have a concession strategy, so have you during your management and have implemented it quite... By the way, I think concessions are successful. That's the case. The Ministry has never given instructions to anyone at Sofia Airport in order to prevent the company's employees from participating in any marches, rallies, protests and whatever. The only management of the airport not only does not prevent the organisation and holding of the specific rally procession, which you are talking about and on the proposal of the union leader Todor Mitov has provided the presence of employees from the Security Directorate to assist the authorities in the light of the fact that Sofia Airport is subject to national security and to ensure the smooth passage of people and cars. In the event of the protest actions carried out on 23 June 2016 by employees at Sofia airport under the Law on Meetings, Meetings and Manifestations, the management of the company has assisted the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to ensure the safe operation and organisation, the collection of employees in the company, in order not to prevent airlines' passengers from being prevented and to avoid disruption of the flight schedule of aircraft landing and departing from Sofia airport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow MPs! Mr. Moskovski, I'm not satisfied with the answer because you practically said and confirmed the thesis I had as a concern that pressure was put on. The management of Sofia airport has assisted the Directorate of Security and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to ensure the procession, and they had to assist the employees of this procession and not the Directorate of Security to check who and why he went to this procession. So there's probably been pressure. I have specific data and facts that I will provide to you because you have probably been misled by these things. As for this, because you said and I have no way in the reply not to say about the concessions at Varna airport and Burgas airport that the difference between Varna airport, Burgas airport and Sofia airport is that there had to be invested a lot of money, and you know this very well, while Sofia airport is finished with all the investments needed on both the runways and terminals. As you know very well, the subway was made there. Whatever it takes, the state has done, and now that they have to collect the fruit, you decide to give it. And the fact that it's right-wing politics, you said it, I didn't say it. This was your argument that the concession should happen. Once again I call on you there is time, it is not too late, reconsider this action of yours, I do not think it is the right thing for the management of this state-owned company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u224	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. That was the last question for Minister Moskovski. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with questions to Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, who is already in the Chamber. The first question to her is from the MP Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov. Mr. Alexandrov, you have a question about the repair and reconstruction of Republican Road III... 5102 and the bridge between the villages of Bukhovtsi and Ostrets. You're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! At the beginning of this month at my post office here in the National Assembly, I received a signature from the mayors of several villages, namely seven, as well as from the mayors' deputies, with a request and a question. It was sent to you and to the Prime Minister for repair and reconstruction of Republican Road III... 5102 and the bridge between the villages of Buchovtsi and Ostrets. This is the road from Veliki Preslav to Targovishte. In this regard, I ask you the question: when will the road be repaired, respectively, and the bridge, if possible, between the villages of Bukhovtsi and Ostretz? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u226	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Madam Minister, come in!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u227	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Alexandrov! Yes, I am aware, unfortunately, with the very bad condition of this road, of this road from Veliki Preslav to Targovishte through all settlements and villages that pass in this direction. Unfortunately, this road section has, I'd say, a time unpleasant chronology of the history of development. It was precisely because of his poor condition that he was included as Lot 22 in the projects that we had provided for funding in the Operational Programme. Malchants of this is that the selected contractor in 2011 for the repair of this 30km stretch proved extremely inconclusive, to say it in the softest way that received an advance, started work and actually stopped his work for a clear reason and more than one year took the advance, fresco, basically partially, the road and left it as it was. After the entire deadline expired, after giving thousands of times a chance and attempt to return to the site, we had to terminate the contract in 2012 with the association of Ponce Strings, as its physical performance was 7% and obviously things were in a very critical situation. We had a long case with this contractor because it wasn't enough insolence that he took the money, took the advance and didn't work, had to take back the advance paid, had to basically kick him out of the site so that we could reopen the tender procedure, but while he was appealing the termination, we were unable to conduct a tender procedure and select a new contractor. All these cases took place until 2014, only in 2015, when the programming period expired, when the available European funding for this period ended, could we announce the tender, but we no longer had European funding. That's why the condition is really bad and the path is the way it is. What we did last year was to answer a question about this time, we did a partial patching, and our wish was to try to include this section at least in the Transit Roads Programme. In the negotiations with the European Investment Bank, however, it has been shown that there is no way to include it there, as this Programme has been completed, too, and we are finishing the last sites this year. What we are predicting, unfortunately, is not as much as I would like to do as far as possible to make a patch on this road at the most compromised sections of this year. You know, within the priority of more investment in roads in Northern Bulgaria from next year is to take far more lasting measures for major repairs. This section is 30 km long, the necessary funds are over 9 million. BGN, with which we should repair the whole section, but since we do not have them at the same time, we will divide them into subdivisions to start for permanent major renovations from next year, and this year by patching up the toughest sections. That's, unfortunately, what we can do at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u228	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Would you like to use a line? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, this is even the second time we have had this debate for the same time, unfortunately. My second question is: if you are ready to give an answer accordingly for the bridge, which is Buchovtsi and Ostretz................... would you also plan for reconstruction as well? In itself, the facility itself is extremely important as a transport link. Indeed, I sincerely hope for at least next year, in part, if even part of it starts to be done, but there is some movement on this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u230	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Here you are, Minister, you have two minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, yes, you're right I missed to supplement the bridge. The bridge is in bad shape. That is why, in the direction of the bridge, we have banned the passage of heavy goods vehicles over 10 tonnes. The Institute of Roads and Bridges at the API is conducting an audit of this bridge and by the end of the month, literally next week, we expect the results with the report what are the specific measures that we need to implement. We will begin the partial implementation of these measures immediately, starting from August. And now depending on the type of measures needed and their financial size, we will see to what extent we will be able to do them this year, and if we can, in fullness, at least fix the bridge facility, because we really know that it is in bad condition. But more specific information I can give you at the end of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u232	Thank you. This was an answer to the question of the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. Following the question from the MP Ivan Kirilov Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, you are welcome to develop your question regarding the development of an alternative study for the section of the trans-European transport corridor No 9: Veliko Tarnovo
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I will ask again a question relating to investment projects in relation to Central Northern Bulgaria, as we all know that this is a region which, from the point of view of its transport infrastructure, has a lot of deficits. From the National Road Infrastructure Development Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2016 - 2022, it is clear that the Bulgarian Government sets itself as a priority task to develop the route of the former European Transport Corridor No 9 by means of the national budget, because the European Commission changed its strategy in 2013 and in the new scheme of the trans-European Transport Corridor No 9 no longer exists. On the other hand, Corridor No 8, namely the route along the Danube River, as we know that the Danube River, especially in its lower part, is extremely undeveloped from the point of view of transport. One of the important priorities in the Strategy of the Bulgarian Government is the implementation of the route of the former Transport Corridor No. 9, namely Captain Andreevo Ruse, including the tunnel under Shipka. The development is yet to be developed, in fact projects are already being developed for the section from Veliko Tarnovo to Ruse. As there are always alternative options and solutions when designing projects in general, I ask you to answer the question: are you planning to explore at this stage and an alternative solution for Corridor No 9, namely Veliko Tarnovo Do you think that such a route with a new facility over the Danube River Bridge, transportlift, ferry connection or something else has a real perspective for realization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u234	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u235	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, as you rightly quote, the Bulgarian government, assisted by the relevant experts and analysts, developed a long-term Strategy for the Development of Strategic Road Infrastructure, as well as for investments in the national road infrastructure, including not only the European transit corridors that pass through the country, but also the rest of the road network. With regard to the newly formed corridors, yes, corridor 9 no longer exists, but the direction is important for the economic development and for the conduct of the heavy transit traffic, which passes through our country from the Middle East in two main directions: from Captain Andreevo on the highway For this reason, as you can see, in the Strategy, we have not stressed any more in-depth analyses of the other alternative corridors such as Veliko Tarnovo Therefore, our efforts and priorities for the development of vertical and horizontal links of the transit corridors are aimed at the directions: completion of the The main focus is the direction Ruse "Turnovo" for two reasons. First of all, because there is extremely serious and busy heavy freight traffic through the Danube bridge at Ruse. Secondly, because from a purely national point of view, passing through Byala is one of the worst places, with the most serious road traffic accidents and the most loss of human life. This is exactly what happens in the direction of Byala. Therefore, our efforts are aimed at the analysis of traffic, of the route, of the social and economic effects and the pre-project study, the idea project that we have completed. We are currently in a process to complete plottary plans, assess the environmental impact, so that for this route from next year we can assign and develop technical design, and ultimately have a well prepared and justified project to build the highway Ruse from 100 kilometers away. This is an investment of almost 1 billion. BGN needed to be invested in order to be built, as the terrain is heavy, especially the passage through White is heavy. That's actually our priority. Yes, the Danube River, as part of Bulgaria, the Lower Danube, the Danube Strategy is an important priority for us, the development and improvement of river navigation. The delivery, apart from the existing two bridges, of a ferry complex and the concession of existing ports is also a priority of government, but we, as a Ministry responsible for the development of road infrastructure, have directed precisely to this transport corridor our efforts at the moment as the most prioritized and most important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u236	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the opportunity to reply to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. In general, I must say that from the point of view of the focus of my question, I am not satisfied enough. I know about Ruse's priority route, which will really solve a lot of problems related to transport workload. I've been discussing with economists, transport specialists in the region, and I've been doing research on the route. Indeed, it is believed that the idea study of the alternative route would be an opportunity in the future to create an additional resource, an additional and quite developed road artery, which will greatly alleviate, including traffic, which goes through Veliko Tarnovo and Ruse. Secondly, I think thinking about building a bridge facility around Svishtov Municipality or some other alternative would be a good option, because there are at the present time at the bottom of the Danube at least bridges compared to the upper and the average river flows. I'll even give you statistics. In the upper river there are 88 bridges, i.e. every 7.1 kilometers there is a bridge. On the middle river of the Danube there are 32 bridges, i.e. every 27 kilometers there is a bridge. In the lower current, where the part of Serbia is referred down, there is an average distance between bridges of 155 kilometers! As far as I hear, your idea is to build a second parallel bridge of Ruse, i.e. to duplicate the bridge of Ruse, is not a good solution compared to the possibility of building another second bridge on a different location, which would surely liven up the territory of Northern Bulgaria, especially the North Central Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Madam Minister, an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! First, yes, of course, there is nothing wrong in the future to do an idea study and to analyse this as an alternative. However, in the context of limited budgets, we try to refine and prioritize expenditure, because such research is not cheap to do. In general, however, yes, I agree that we could also consider planning such a study in the future. With regard to your second comment on the number of bridges, yes, we all know that the number of connecting bridge facilities is extremely low on the lower Danube. We spent 50 years waiting for a second bridge with Romania. The river was splitting us up, and it wasn't connecting us, so we're definitely going to have to develop a bridge or another infrastructure. I hope we don't wait another 50 years for a third, fourth or fifth bridge, but it might be. What I can say is that for building, especially under the conditions of cross-border cooperation, and the Danube is a cross-border river, we cannot determine the points, cities and settlements where there may be a bridge facility built. This represents long negotiations between the two countries. In the years back after such long negotiations, which were very difficult, I suppose you know, Bulgaria managed to negotiate, as it turned out that for the Bulgarian and Romanian countries the priorities for where to have a bridge are in different places, the agreement reached as a compromise was that when we negotiate for the whole territory the length of the border between Bulgaria and Romania along the Danube River, there can be two places and they can always go in a package and kit: Oryahovo These are both projects for which there are signed memorandums between the two transport ministries. We are currently working on them and financing the pre-project studies under our Bulgaria Cross-border Cooperation Programme in order to analyse at least these two new bridge facilities. If we are going to talk about a third such as you are proposing with Svishtov and not those for whom there are signed agreements, this means negotiations are yet to be held to achieve intersection points, agreement of both sides, and only then could we discuss this third version of a bridge for which funding is yet to be sought along a line perhaps of cross-border cooperation. However, at least for the time being, I am not familiar with the Ministry of Transport. From the point of view of the road infrastructure, if we take these trucks to Svishtov, there's no way we can get them across the ferry. Since we are in charge of road infrastructure, we have directed these trucks to reach successfully, unconflictly, seamlessly to Ruse and to pass them along the road infrastructure. God willing, if the competent portfolio ministries come to negotiations for a third new bridge, then we will think about the idea design, planning to develop this type of infrastructure as well. The more, the more! Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u240	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The applause is eloquent. Dear colleagues, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Tourism Mrs Angelkova are already in the Chamber. The end of the working hours of today's sitting is approaching. I propose, in keeping with the spirit of correctness and mutual respect, that we run out of questions to the Minister of Justice, of course, after we finish with Minister Pavlova. However, as for the questions asked to Minister Angelkova, I do not see the MPs who asked them. It is not correct, after hours of work, to proceed to this procedure in their absence. I am making the announcement mainly to inform Minister Angelkova, to thank her for her understanding and willingness to answer the questions, but we will end with the answers of Minister Zaharieva, of course, and due to the time running out. The last question to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Pavlova is from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on new amendments to the Cadastral and Property Register Act. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, changes were recently adopted to the Cadastral Act and the property register aimed at implementing the so-called "reform" in the Cadastral. Undoubtedly, the first Cadastral Law in 2000 must be brought to an end because, unfortunately, the information about the properties is currently in various institutions such as the Agriculture Office, the Municipal Administration, the Cadastral Office and so on. This fragmentation of information in various services confuses and makes it difficult for citizens and businesses to obtain services preventing investment processes. The changes to the Cadastral Act and the property register are a step in the right direction. The amendments cover significant parts of the Law and relate both to the Cadastral Register and to the property register. The creation of these new norms is provoked by the main purpose of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register, namely the creation of a comprehensive and uniform information system for real estate in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, containing both graphic and semantic data. The new texts correspond to the changed circumstances, to the need for decisive acceleration of the Cadastral reforms and in this sense should be considered as a response to the new increased needs for improved protection of property and the increasingly active real estate markets in Bulgaria. This applies to both urbanised territories and non-urbanised territories. However, their adoption creates a complicated situation with regard to Cadastral data, their management and operation. In this regard, my question to you is: will our country finally have a single Cadastral? Do you expect through the adopted changes to achieve the creation of such a system of data, which will be available in an administration, so that citizens, and businesses, can receive the necessary information at a one-stop shop? And by what measures will you improve the quality of the map as well as the level of service of the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u242	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u243	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, thank you for the question. It is indeed very up-to-date in view of the recent changes adopted by the National Assembly in the Cadastral and Property Register Act, as well as the fact that, in fact, the reform itself in the unification of registers and the creation of a single register and a cadastral map begins in 2000. In 2016, the progress for these 16 years has not been remarkable. To date, the cadastral coverage of the country is only 22%. At the same time in the years of 1989, in the years of the transition on the various committees for the restoration of agricultural property, the maps of restored agricultural property that they have made contain extremely many inaccuracies, are not digital all maps and information. This really leads to the citizens and businesses having a problem with obtaining current sketches that are important to them, as well as to receiving, including direct payments and subsidies from the European area funds, and these are over 12 million properties potentially receiving such subsidies, so of course, and property management, the independent, inviolable private property of citizens in sales and real estate transactions, which unfortunately sometimes leads to numerous abuses. The creation and adoption of this Law now gives us a good opportunity for all the maps of restored agricultural property, which are currently managed and provided as a service by the municipal agriculture services, to be able to gradually digitise them, to digitalise them and to pour them into a single body, the single Cadastral Agency, which contains all this information. This process by our calculations will take about two years. It requires a significant resource, as the maps of restored property very often contain multiple errors. You know when the river or the road is in a place other than where they are in reality than the map. So clearing these mistakes up until the creation of a cadastral map will take us two years. We applied, we have an approved project under the Operational Programme "Good management" worth 12 million. BGN, with which to actually make this whole process, this unification. If we combine these records of the maps of restored agricultural property with available cadastral information and coverage 22%, we can achieve 90% cadastral coverage and actually not, as they say, like banana countries, and finally have full coverage with cadastral information. The other thing we're predicting, in fact, through this pouring and unifying data, is to move from a name to a poem system. This is actually very important for the citizens of business as well. So we're going to have property number, generally speaking, each property will have its property number, we'll be able to track in time who owned the property, how it sold in time, what its characteristics are. This will help to avoid the abuse of property. With regard to the other issue, yes, we need to ease the service of citizens and businesses. By pouring in the two registers, the municipal agriculture services will now work for the Cadastral Agency. This means that every citizen, every representative of the business will be able in both the municipal agriculture office and the municipal directorate, and in the Cadastral Agency to receive this information in three places, which means more than 650 employees will be able to serve all citizens. All information can be obtained electronically and will not be necessary if you have a property in Vidin, but live, say, in Burgas, to travel to Vidin to get a sketch or information. When this whole cycle of unification is completed, it will be even better that neither the public administration nor the municipalities will have the right to require citizens and business sketches if they have to provide them with any service. They will be obliged to enter the cadastral, print out the available sketch for the property concerned, seal it and not have the citizens to go from a counter to a counter or to go to other stations. This is also part of our strategy for e-management and improving business service. I hope that this process, thanks to these changes, is now starting. With European funding to clear up the many mistakes. We have set an ambitious task for these two to three years to pour registers and provide this new type of different and improved service for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u244	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u245	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Thanks for the comprehensive answer. You said very important things about the single register, to stop the so-called abuse that is done when transferring the property from one owner to another. If the state in the face of the Regional Ministry is able to clear within two or three years these errors and introduce this single information system covering the Cadastre, I am talking about any kind of map of the restored property, it will really ease the work of both the citizens at the counter and the work of the business and investment processes. Perhaps we should pay attention, consider it a little advice, because the Cadastral Agency has other official commitments that are mostly related to the so important high-tech state affairs to keep pace. I think that this can be achieved with joint efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u246	Thank you. Will there be a hole, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u247	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u248	That concludes your participation in today's parliamentary control. Thank you for your answers. As I have announced, we are continuing with questions to Mrs. Zaharieva as far as possible, as the questions asked are in the Chamber. Minister Zaharieva is also available. I will give Mr. Delchev the opportunity to ask his question about information and procedure for obtaining Bulgarian citizenship from people born in Bulgaria. Mr. Delchev, you have the floor to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Recently, the story of a boy named Kiril Golovin, who has not yet received Bulgarian citizenship, although he was born and has been in Bulgaria his whole life. Neither he nor his family have left the country for 18 years now. He is about to become an adult and apply for higher education. Unfortunately, however, due to the lack of citizenship, he cannot submit documents and apply for them. Parents claim that they have repeatedly been given advice to wait for their son to become a minor in order to pass citizenship under pό relieved procedure. They claim to have been directed by representatives of the Ministry of Justice. As a result of these advices, so far this young person with Bulgarian self-consciousness has not received citizenship.. he will have to wait a few years to be able to settle his status and to start following or working. At the same time, he was advised to leave the country until the issue of his citizenship was settled. Such policy and administrative complications related to it do not result in conditions for increasing population growth and retention of talented young people with Bulgarian self-awareness. It should be borne in mind that the case concerns a person with such a Bulgarian self-consciousness and a solid connection with the state, while at the same time the system of naturalization is blocked with requests for citizenship by people who have nothing to do with the Bulgarian state. In this regard, my questions are as follows: have the employees in your ministry been given instructions on how to proceed and what to advise people who have been born and lived their entire lives in Bulgaria, including how to apply for citizenship? Is there a particular policy regarding the naturalization of minors and is counseling provided for parents? Is it envisaged that applications for naturalization of people who have been born and have lived in Bulgaria to be considered with priority? Do you foresee a legislative initiative to ease the order for obtaining citizenship from children born and graduates of education in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u250	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Madam Minister, please come in for three minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u251	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Delchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I met some of the media publications that tell the story of Kiril Golovin. This is not the first time the issue of acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by people born on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria with foreign parents is raised. These children by law acquire their parents' citizenship. The order and conditions for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship on naturalization are regulated in the Law on Bulgarian Citizenship. An important condition for applying is that the person is over the age of age. He is a foreign citizen, his parents too. Such are the grounds in the Law. Procedure for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship is permissible for non-Bulgarian persons only under authorised residence status in the Republic of Bulgaria. The control over acquisition by foreigners in Bulgaria is carried out by the Directorate of Migration at the Ministry of Interior. Regarding your comment that the naturalization system is clogged with requests for Bulgarian citizenship, which are made only for the purpose of acquiring personal travel documents abroad, I pay attention to you that the Ministry of Justice is forming a naturalization proceedings on the grounds laid down in the Law. The law does not require the motives of the candidates, which is why the Ministry cannot refuse the formation of proceedings for the acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship of persons who have applied the legally designated documents. The employees of the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship are governed by the provisions of the Law and are not given instructions on how to treat the various candidates, except to explain the Law as it is. Minors and minors cannot apply for Bulgarian citizenship on the basis of general naturalization, which is why it is not intended to provide consultations to their parents. The applications of the persons born and residing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be treated with priority. Yes, that's the answer to your question. Following the verification at the Directorate of Bulgarian Citizenship, it was found that no application for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship by Kiril Golovin has been filed at the time. In the event that it wishes to acquire one, it should submit an application to implement the necessary documents. Regarding your question about legislative initiatives in relation to the Bulgarian Citizenship Act, we have repeatedly discussed with the competent institutions that there may be a need for a change in the Law. We even have a plan to set up a task force because the Justice Department is not the only competent office. As I said, the residence permit is not granted by the Ministry of Justice, which is one of the main prerequisites for acquiring citizenship in naturalization, i.e. five years of permanent residence, and more. I cannot speak on behalf of all the employees in the Directorate, but I seriously doubt that anyone has advised them to leave Bulgaria in order to obtain an easier Bulgarian citizenship because it would be more difficult for them. So we have a plan for a working group to cover the Agency for Bulgarians abroad, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, who is responsible for the Agency for Bulgarians abroad and for the overall review of the legal basis related to citizenship. The fact is, last year alone, there were 22,000 applications. In just one year, a huge number of requests have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u252	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Minister Zaharieva for the answer. I referred to the case Kiril Golovin as an example because he really lived in Bulgaria all his life. The boy is talented, performs Bulgarian folk songs, the anthem. As far as I know, he wants to apply to the Conservatory. In addition, he has proven in his education that he is a child with potential, receiving good grades all the time. As a self-awareness he is practically a Bulgarian citizen without being such on paper. I do not know how his parents will proceed with the documents, but if I have understood correctly, when filing documents, even without it coming out, they will be considered as priority because the relationship of the boy with the state, with the Bulgarian manners and customs can be very easily and very quickly established, which is good for him, on the other hand, to use the given citizenship to apply for higher education and continue to develop as a good Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u254	Thank you, Mr. Delchev. Would you like to take the opportunity for a douche? I won't. Let's move on to the matter from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov on the execution of punishment for prisoners, held on a report on the card store and distributed in prisons in the country. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u255	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After broadcast material on one of the national networks for prison in Bulgaria, where people who have committed serious crimes have suffered punishment, we have all witnessed brutal scenes, inhuman abuse and relations between serving prisoners. We have seen that the conditions in the prison are in a state which does not meet the requirements of the European Union. I am shocked by the fact that prisoners manage to put in prison phones, cigarettes, smartphones and other prohibited items. All this leads to the thought of poor control and reduced crossing mode. Maybe we should even think about a certain type of corruption. Thus, all criminals further improve their criminal habits, which is contrary to the purpose for which they went to prison. According to information dated 1 June 2016, in connection with my research, from a total of 7477 conducted in a report on the prisoner's records and distributed in prisons, 3600 are relapseists, i.e. approximately 50% of the prisoners. Since I have no reason to doubt the credibility of the information received, it is apparent from the evidence that the first sentence did not play a role in prevention. This is, without a doubt, the result of the manner in which the sentence is endured. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: what measures does the Ministry of Justice apply, which is responsible for the way in which penalties are applied, for reducing the number of repeaters in view of the way in which the sentence itself is put up, and, above all, what are the methods of prevention by the Ministry of Justice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u256	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You have the floor to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u257	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ibryamov, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Last week I was responsible for the extensive material on one of the national networks for prison in Bulgaria. At that time, I had the opportunity to emphasise that precisely the footage that appeared were revealed as a result of the activities of the prison officials, seized and alerted the competent prosecution, as a result of which these persons were sentenced to commit these brutal acts, ineligible not only in prison, but wherever, to four years of effective imprisonment. These are footage from the end of 2013. I do not accept the suggestion that this is being done in front of the guards' eyes, because it is the guards who have revealed the actions, and not by complaint of the victims. I'm emphasising! Surely, unfortunately, there is violence in prisons. It is not only in Bulgaria. It's unacceptable! The Ministry shall take all action to limit these cases as far as possible. In general, in the prison community, forced social groups have been created, based on the legal terms and order whose unifying factor has committed a crime. In them, convicted persons interact with each other, form expectations and accept obligations, meet the needs of security, belonging, recognition, support and implement all activities. The mechanisms of structuring and dynamics in the prison community influence forced cohabitation and communication, the lack of opportunity to make independent decisions, free access to various material and social aspects characteristic of life in freedom. Indeed, you are absolutely right. The convicted persons who reside predominantly in the prisons in Bulgaria are of the category of repeaters, mostly illiterate or secondary illiterate, without professional qualifications, convicted mainly of relapses for thefts, robberies and other similar crimes. I'd say without any working habits. Not just illiterate and without jobs. And because they make up a major part of the community in prison, and cohabitation, communication, the environment is forced, they impose their subculture over the rest of the imprisoned. This creates conditions for a more intensive process of their secondary criminalisation. The effectiveness of the corrective action, which is one of the main objectives of the punishment, is not only to punish but to re-educate basically and accordingly prevention. I have repeatedly exposed the social activities implemented in prison and educational programs for the formation of a legal model and behavior by prisoners. Unfortunately, participation in them is a voluntary and not a small percentage of prisoners are of no interest at all. In each of the prisons there is a school and about 30% of them are educated and graduate from high school in prison places. It is precisely to make the first sentence more effective and to limit relapse that the Ministry of Justice has developed a package of measures related to the manner of the sentence being endured. They are laid down in the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Implementation of the Punishment of the Punishment, which is already announced in public discussion and is due to be submitted at the beginning of September to the National Assembly. With the changes, we create an opportunity to extend the scope for determining an initial common regime, which is also imposed on convicts who are relapses within the meaning of criminal law, but who are of a lower degree of public danger, committed a crime, have an effective sentence, but have not suffered effective punishment, that is to say, their first effective punishment. What's the target? If they fall under strict regime, they fall into relapses that create criminogenic environments, and rather than re-educated they could deepen their criminogenic factors. I hope this bill gets your support. More discretion shall be given to the court in determining the original procedure where the court finds from the materials of the case that the convicted person is not of a high degree of public danger and can be given an initial general regime. It should be borne in mind that the effectiveness of each means of overcoming the negative relationship between prisoners suffering sentences depends on the material conditions and the overpopulation of prisons. Yeah, you're absolutely right, a lot of our prisons don't meet European norms and standards. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is no coincidence that in the past year, during this even more, mainly, the investment programme of the Ministry of Finance from the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, however, not from the state budget, was around 7 million. euros that have been used in absolute efficiency. The opening of a new prison dorm in the town of Debrate to Burgas will be within two months, which will solve the problem of overcrowding, as there will be about 400 new prisons. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to the fact that whatever legislative initiatives the Ministry takes, whatever social and educational programmes the prisoners pass, their reintegration into society would be extremely difficult without providing further care after leaving prison. We create programs, we have a lot of social programs with the help of the Norwegian Financial Mechanism, with NGOs, with the Swiss Programme, but I am in talks with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and thank you for the understanding I meet from Minister Rusinova. We have a plan for a special program to take over those incarcerated after they're out of prison. So I hope that we will present this program soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u258	We're running out of time. We will formally give you the opportunity right now, after the line, you have two more minutes available. With interest we will listen to the supplement to your response. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u259	Thank you. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for the honesty you put into your response. Indeed, neither the conditions nor the way of reeducation, if there is one in prisons, is the right one at the moment. I'd say this. We are witnessing, as in those days, a street crime, hooliganism by young people who without any shyness, with a cold weapon stabbed their friend. You imagine these underage people, young people, falling into these prisons and being among those relapses! That was my question to you: what is the role of the Ministry and what measures will it propose for prevention? You said those people inside prisons don't have any working habits. In my opinion, this is the key to gaining work habits, which will lead to their better socialization in society after they suffer their punishment. I'm not talking naturally about forced labor. Yes, you do. We are witnessing that when these people think about what they will do by acquiring working habits and better socialization, they do not think about nonsense, and this also leads to a reduction in their sentence. In my opinion, and in the opinion of our parliamentary group, it would be appropriate, if necessary, for the Ministry to initiate legislative changes, thus having, I suppose, and the support of all the other parliamentary groups, to impose these patient, especially with serious crimes prisoners, an hour rather than beginning to acquire labour habits. In this way, we will ease both the work in prisons and their socialization in society. As for the fact that it was the prison officials who made these signals, it didn't clear them. They must perform much better the duties they are responsible for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u260	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Madam Minister, you have those two minutes that you haven't had enough. You're welcome to further your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u261	Thank you. There's a few questions. I don't think I can get back together in two minutes, but I'm always ready to answer. First of all, of course, the force cannot be, but you are right that they have an interest in working, because in this way their sentence is reduced. Every prison can't run a factory. We have a few seats and they're absolutely busy. That is, there is also a profession, not only work habits. We've got a furniture shop, we've got a farm... At the moment, the state enterprise also applies for a project under the agricultural operational programme so as to create dairy, as employers themselves sometimes need to hire prisoners. We already have such talks and practice in Varna Prison at the initiative of the employer. So I've had conversations with these organizations, and I'm stimulating them to be hired and imprisoned while they're still in prison. This will stimulate if they do well, and their employment after leaving prison. I am referring to education, which does not show much interest, which is also the other basic prerequisite for a better life after leaving prison. They have an interest in work, but not in education, unfortunately. In all places of imprisonment there is an opportunity, there is an education provided................................................................................................................... Accordingly, there are libraries. I am already in touch with publishers and thank some of them who responded and provided free literature, books to do reading rather than the things we saw on the footage. You know, with regard to the guards, of course there are cases of corruption. We reveal them and almost monthly send signals. In fact, there was a guard in Stara Zagora recently discovered by the prison leadership. Non-stop inspections of prohibited substances shall be carried out. This year I have provided funds from our budget. It was possible for me to secure, and we will also purchase technical means that will assist the guards in detecting prohibited items. There is a procedure and any moment now the opening of a public contract. As for the fact that they did not do their job, these actions were carried out at night. We can't put cameras in the cells because this is a violation of the Human Rights Convention. Those individuals were representatives of the Council of Europe of the Torture Committee at the same time. They were having a conversation with all the prisoners. None of them signaled these abusings, not even with outsiders. That is, to say that they do not trust the leadership of the prison and the guards and have not dared to identify the fact that at exactly the same time there was a check by the Council of Europe, by the Council of Torture. And I would rather say that here the good work of the guards has helped solve this crime. In one of the search and seizure searches that they're surprisingly doing in the cells, these cell phones have been seized. I'm not saying there's nothing to be desired by the work of the guards. Of course there is. However, work is extremely difficult and hardly willing to take this position, so the job of the management is primarily to reveal where there is corruption, to improve, to reverse corruption among the guards, I mean, when it helps to bring prohibited items into prisons, but also to provide technical opportunities for the guards themselves to reveal these things. In most of the prisons so far, there have been no metal detectors. That's the procedure we're about to find. Apart from that, a large part of the project for good governance is a priority and I have given a large part of the funds available to the Ministry to improve the conditions and especially the video surveillance where it is not available in the places for which it is allowed. From the Norwegian mechanism this year, also from the state budget, funds have been allocated. However, the truth is that only a year and a half have been spent in prisons. Some kind of means to improve the conditions. It has come to the point that we have to have a pilot decision of the European Court of Human Rights in order to start granting funds, so we have a plan. I am convinced that within two years we will improve the conditions. I am convinced that, with the help of the business, they show understanding and interest, we will create conditions for work and employment in places of imprisonment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-07-22.u262	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With the comprehensive response of Minister Zaharieva ended today's parliamentary control. The next parliament meeting will be on 26 July 2016, Tuesday, at 11:00. This is an extraordinary meeting in line with the Parliament's decision taken today. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
