ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. According to our adopted weekly programme as point 1 today, it is provided: Chosen Deputy Ombudsman. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by a deliberate decision of the National Assembly. A report from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on hearing the candidate for deputy ombudsman together with the draft decision on the election of deputy ombudsman has been received. The report will be presented by Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u2	Mrs. Maya Manolova and Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, are to be admitted to the Chamber of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u3	Colleagues, please vote on the procedural proposal made. Vote 137 MPs: 135 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u4	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on a hearing of the applicant for deputy ombudsman At an open meeting held on 21 January 2016 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights held a hearing of the proposed candidate for Deputy Ombudsman under Section III of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and procedure for proposing a candidate for Deputy Ombudsman. The meeting was attended by representatives of NGOs and media. On a proposal from the President of the Commission Mr. Krasimir Velchev, the hearing was held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman, the proposal for a Deputy Ombudsman is made by the Ombudsman. The Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova proposed the candidacy of Mrs. Diana Petrova Kovacheva. All required documents are presented in accordance with Section I. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The proposal for the candidate, together with all documents, is published within the specialized website of the National Assembly. According to Section III, t. 1 of the Rules of Procedure submitted the documents have been verified and the applicant complies with the requirements of the Law on the Ombudsman for taking up that position. The Commission has not received any opinions or questions to the candidate for deputy ombudsman from non-governmental organisations and media. Letters in support of Mrs. Diana Kovacheva's candidacy were submitted to the Ombudsman, published on the specialized website of the Vice-Ombudsman.The documents received by Mrs. Maya Manolova on the website of the National Assembly are attached to the documents received by the Commission. The letters received are from the following NGOs: Union of Lawyers in Bulgaria; Centre for Liberal Strategies; Association of the Citizen Society and Law and Law............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They highlight the high professionalism and personal qualities of Mrs. Kovacheva, her successes as Minister of Justice and a well-established legal expert are highlighted both in the field of international and European law and in the domestic law of the Republic of Bulgaria. Its long-standing experience in the non-governmental sector, as well as its commitment to important areas of public life, is voiced in the opinion that the protection of human rights and vulnerable groups in society, countering corruption and others will contribute to the effective work of the Ombudsman institution in line with European practices. Mrs. Diana Kovacheva's application was presented by the Ombudsman. Mrs. Maya Manolova informed that a hearing of five candidates for replacements nominated by NGOs was held at the institution Ombudsman. The evaluation of the candidates was made by a committee appointed by the Ombudsman, including members of the Advisory Constitutional Council of the institution. First was ranked Mrs. Diana Petrova Kovacheva, proposed by Association "Transparency without Borders." Mrs. Manolova emphasized on the rich professional experience and the undisputed qualities of the candidate as a lawyer in the field of international law and human rights. The candidate holds Master's Degrees in European Union Law from Sofia University and from Nancy 2 University. He is a PhD under International Law and International Relations and has specializations in the field of human rights. She is a longtime executive director of the Association Transparency International and Minister of Justice in the period 2011 - 2013. Ms. Kovacheva is a public figure who knows the public processes and mechanisms of government. It has the necessary training and competence to put to a wide public discussion the hot rights issues. Following the presentation of the application, the personal presentation of the candidate and the presentation of his concept of work as a deputy ombudsman was moved on. In her exhibition Mrs. Diana Kovacheva said that her motivation to run for Deputy Ombudsman is related to the specific focus of the work. Her professional experience has helped to build a good view of the problems of fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, gaining experience in working with the administration and the non-governmental sector. The specifics of the Ombudsman's work relate to the possibility of being close to the people, react quickly and seek a solution to their problems. For certain individuals and groups, the Ombudsman is a hope of justice for children and especially for children at risk; women victims of domestic violence; people with disabilities; minorities and others. Therefore, in the work it highlighted the dynamics and opportunities of the institution to adapt to the needs of the environment in which it works and to seek out the systemic problems affecting large groups of people and to find an answer to their problems. Despite the three levels of protection, national, European and international, human rights are violated on a daily basis. Despite consistent application of modern principles of good administration, opaque decision making, abuse of power or corruption practices are not uncommon. Ms. Kovacheva assured that she will bet on teamwork and transparency in her work and will invest all her experience in validating the institution as a real corrective of vicious practices. Asked for support in the Ombudsman's work to export the activities of the institutions close to the people. In this sense, the legal framework offers opportunities for admissions to the country, independent checks, referral of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Courts for interpretation of decisions in conflicting practices or through initiatives for changes in laws. He will actively participate in determining the priorities of the institutions, identifying in the risk zones and making contact with the experts from the administration and including them in all current problems. Questions were asked to the candidate Deputy Ombudsman by the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov, Evgeni Stoev and Vasil Antonov. People's representative Bajraktarov raised issues related to violations of civil rights by the actions of collective bodies, especially by the municipal councils. In accordance with art. 120, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria any act of municipal councils can be appealed by the citizens. Citizens attacking minor or unlawful decisions of municipal councils do not receive protection, but rather a kind of penalty, expressed in the award of the highest legal remuneration as a cost. The second question was a breach of other rights. According to the Administrative Procedure Code (PKI), where an appeal has been lodged, whether or not the applicant for administrative proceedings has a legal interest, the courts concerned are obliged to carry out official checks on the contested administrative act, whether it is lawful or not, which is not done. People's representative Evgeni Stoev said that Mrs. Diana Kovacheva is known in society as a proven professional, built specialist and team player. In support of its application, and on 12 January 2016, at the hearing of the five candidates for deputy ombudsman, it has collected the most points. He was impressed by her cause "Secure of human rights" and by her views on the development of the Ombudsman institution, and asked the question: is hate language a violation of human rights? National Representative Vasil Antonov informed that he was present at the competition held with the Ombudsman and joined Mrs. Diana Kovacheva's assessment during the competition. She presented herself flawlessly and there is no doubt that with the qualities she holds and if she gained confidence in the National Assembly, she would have done her job professionally. The question I asked was: where, in particular, does the candidate for Deputy Ombudsman see his place and functions, because, according to the legislation in force, the leading role is of the national ombudsman? Mr. Bajraktarov's questions Mrs. Diana Kovacheva replied that it is probably a controversial case-law. The Ombudsman institution has no right to intervene in the work of the judiciary, but when it comes to conflicting practices, it has the right to request interpretation decisions and believes that, if that is the case, steps should be taken to refer to the Supreme Court concerned. To the question asked by the National Representative Stoev, he answered that the language of hatred is a serious violation of art. 8 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the right to privacy. The European Court of Justice in Strasbourg has consistent practice in which, for years, it has imposed precisely that hate speech is not merely a violation of human rights in general, but a misuse of rights, abuse of the right to free expression. In its practice, the court in Strasbourg has never allowed protection of hate speech, even in cases where it does not call for violence. The practice is clear and consistent in that the language of hatred is unacceptable and is absolutely incompatible with democratic values. To the question asked by the National Representative Antonov, she stressed that she really believes in teamwork. He sees the role of the deputy ombudsman not in individual but in the solution of all problems. "I will work closely with the experts of the institution because I think that is exactly the work of the deputy ombudsman. After the hearing was concluded, Mr. Krasimir Velchev said that the hearing report will be submitted, to which a draft decision on the election of a candidate for deputy ombudsman will also be applied. Project! DECISION to elect a deputy ombudsman The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED He elected Diana Petrova Kovacheva as Deputy Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u5	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. According to item IV of our decision and Rules of Procedure concerning the election of a candidate for deputy ombudsman by the National Assembly, following the hearing in summary of the Commission Report and presentation of the draft decision, the candidate for deputy ombudsman is represented by the Ombudsman within five minutes. Mrs. Manolova, you have the floor, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman and on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by Parliament, I submitted Diana Petrova Kovacheva's candidacy for deputy ombudsman to the parliament. Today, in this plenary session, I am pleased to present her candidacy. A few words about how I came to this proposal because I have already been asked such questions in front of the plenary. In fulfilling the commitment I made to you on the day of my choice of publicity and transparency in the work of the institution and for real and effective interaction with civil society organisations, I addressed the non-governmental sector to make proposals for the position of deputy ombudsman. Nine proposals from non-governmental organisations were received at the Ombudsman's institution within my deadline. After reviewing the documents presented, the motivational letters, after interviewing each of the nine proposed candidates, I ranked five of them I submitted to the National Assembly. A week later on 11 December 2015, Parliament returned my five proposals with a recommendation to submit a proposal to be heard, discussed and voted in plenary. As a result, led by the understanding that choice meant competition and competition between several candidates, I held a public hearing at the Ombudsman's institution with the participation of MPs, members of the committees, with the participation of civil organisations, media. The hearing was shown on BNT 2 and a video of it is uploaded to the Ombudsman Institution's website, so that each of you can get acquainted with the presentation of the five candidates. The classification was carried out by pre-declared rules, criteria and a clear pre-declared methodology by an authority committee composed of the members of the Constitutional Council of the Ombudsman's Institution. These are: prof. Ekaterina Mihaylova, prof. Wrinkle, Professor. Stoychev, Prof. Evgeni Tanchev, prof. Plamen Kirov, lawyer Daniela Dokovska, lawyer Borislav Tsekov and the chief secretary of the Ombudsman institution, who, applying the previously announced criteria, presented me with the following rankings. First of all, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva was ranked 22 points; second place was the Ombudsman, 16 points; and thirdly, the other three candidates with 14 points. As a result, I submitted to the National Assembly Mrs. Diana Kovacheva's candidacy for the election of deputy ombudsman. A few words about her biography. She has graduated law from the Faculty of Law of Sofia University and holds Master's Degrees in Law of the European Union and from the University of Sofia and from Nancy 2 University in France. She is a Ph.D. in International Law and International Relations and has several specializations in the field of.................................................................................................. Diana Kovacheva, as you all know, is a long-standing director of the Bulgarian branch of the prestigious non-governmental international organization. He was also Minister of Justice for the period from 2011 to 2013 in Mr. Borisov's first cabinet. Diana Kovacheva is currently a Research Fellow at the Institute for State and Law at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and is a lecturer in International Law at the UNWE. He speaks English, French and Russian. Visible from the proposal, which was made to me by "Transparency without Borders" and from the letters for support from nine NGOs, Mrs. Kovacheva has the necessary moral and professional qualities, has the necessary expertise and experience in protecting the rights of Bulgarian citizens and important public causes. She has dealt with, as can be seen from her biography, active in scientific and teaching activities in the field of human rights and countering corruption, and has shown that she has the will and sustainability to protect both the rights of the individual citizen and the public interest. She has participated in a number of election monitoring campaigns, a conflict of interests in countering corruption, transparency in the public procurement system, decision-making in the judiciary and has quite serious administrative experience as well as as as Director of "Transparency without Borders" and as Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, during Mrs. Diana Kovacheva's hearing both at the Ombudsman's Institution and before the Parliamentary Committee on Human Rights and Religions, her presentation was truly impressive, I would say it was brilliant. It demonstrates both knowledge and experience, and erudition, and expertise, and which is extremely important to me and desire to work to protect the rights of Bulgarian citizens. I am sure, as a result of my recommendations, proposal, presentation and personal acquaintance with Mrs. Kovacheva, that by offering her to you, I am offering you a person who will actively, heart and dedicatedly work for the cause of protection the rights of Bulgarian citizens and the public interest. I am sure that in her effort and desire to work, in her expertise, if you as MPs support her choice, we will have a working, active, tireless team that will work for the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria to protect their rights and, of course, for the public interest. Me, as well as Mrs Kovacheva, most of the MPs know me as a MP, her as a minister of justice, which I think is a guarantee that we will work actively with each of the parliamentary groups and with every single MP when defending causes in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens. Support Diana Kovacheva because I need a replacement, an active, active, working deputy, given the huge commitments I have already made to the Ombudsman's institution, I rely on your support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u7	Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs willing to participate in it? There have been so many hearing procedures, a competitive start of choice. There aren't any. The debate is closed. I put to the vote a draft decision to elect a deputy ombudsman. I'll remind you of that. Mr. Antonov presented it to us with the report: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 11, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED He elected Diana Petrova Kovacheva as Deputy Ombudsman. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 152 MPs: for 152, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The motion has been adopted unanimously. Let's congratulate Mrs. Kovacheva. Let us wish the team of Mrs. Manolova and Mrs. Kovacheva to continue with the ambition they have for more results! Good day to the ombudsman's team and the deputy ombudsman! Colleagues, we continue with: Second reading of the Law on Public Procurement. This is the time to announce that there will be no extension of the plenary session on this day due to pre-scheduled committee meetings. Depending on how the text voting rate is going today, it is possible that on Tuesday we will have an extraordinary meeting..................... it is up to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u8	Under art. 91 The Commission supports the text of the importer. "Department IV.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92, as in para. 4 t. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance It's a technicality. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 93: Use of an electronic catalogue under a framework agreement Art. 93. (1) Where a framework agreement has been concluded with more than one contractor after submission of tenders in the form of electronic catalogues, contracting entities may provide for the possibility to conduct an internal competitive choice for specific contracts, such as: 1. invite the participants to update their common catalogues in the part corresponding to the requirements of the specific order; or 2. collect from the electronic catalogues already submitted for the particular commodity the necessary information to draw up tenders, provided that this possibility is specified in the procurement documents concerning the framework agreement. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 Contracting entities shall notify the participants of the date and time when they intend to collect the information by providing a sufficient period between notification and actual collection to enable the participants to decide on their consent to use the specific contract information submitted by them. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 Before awarding the contract, contracting entities shall provide the information collected to the participant concerned in order to enable it to challenge or confirm it. Art. 94. The use of an electronic catalogue in a dynamic purchasing system shall be supported by the Commission and the following version shall be proposed: Use of electronic catalogue in a dynamic purchasing system Art. 94. (1) In the case of procurement through the Dynamic purchasing system, contracting entities may request tenders for the specific contract to be submitted in the form of an electronic catalogue. (2) Where the application for participation in the Dynamic purchasing system is accompanied by an electronic catalogue corresponding to the technical specifications and format established by the contracting authority, the order based on a Dynamic purchasing system may be awarded using the possibility under art. 93, para. 1, t. 2. (3) In the cases under para. 2 the electronic catalogue is subsequently supplemented by the candidates under the conditions of art. 93, para. 2 and 3. "Department V "Centralized procurement". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Under art. 95 has a proposal that is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 95: "Central purchasing body' Art. 95. (1) Contracting entities may receive supplies and/or services from a central purchasing body offering centralised purchasing activities. (2) Contracting entities may acquire works, supplies and services through public contracts awarded by the body under para. 1, using: 1. a dynamic purchasing system managed by this body; 2. a framework agreement concluded by that authority. (3) Where other contracting entities are also intended to use the CPC managed by a central purchasing body, this shall be indicated in the notice announcing the establishment of the PPP. (4) Contracting entities shall not apply public procurement procedures where they award to a central purchasing body a public procurement service subject to the execution of centralised purchasing activities which may also include the provision of supporting purchasing activities. (5) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 are assumed that contracting entities have complied with the provisions of the law. (6) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 contracting entities shall be responsible for the legality of the actions carried out by them relating to the selection of a contractor and the award of the specific procurement contracts in use of the PPP managed by the central purchasing body or of the framework agreement concluded by it. (7) Deliveries, services or works awarded by a central purchasing body under art. 5, para. 4 t. 3 may only be used for the implementation of sectoral activities. Art. 96. Establishment of central purchasing bodies. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 96: Art. 96. (1) A group of contracting entities may decide to establish a central purchasing body. (2) Central purchasing bodies for the needs of executive administrations as well as for the needs of certain sectors shall be established by an act of the Council of Ministers. (3) Central purchasing bodies for the needs of municipalities shall be established by decision of the relevant municipal councils on a proposal of the mayors of municipalities. The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria may perform the functions of a central purchasing body for procurement for the needs of municipalities with a decision of the General Assembly. (4) The municipal council, on a proposal from the mayor, may decide to acquire supplies and/or services from a central purchasing body under para. 3 in agreement with that authority. E-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail@europa.eu The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97, as in the words ................................................................................................. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 15 (2). 39............................................................................... Use of a central purchasing body established in another Member State. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98: Use of a central purchasing body established in another Member State Art. 98. (1) Contracting entities shall be entitled to benefit from the CPC, framework agreements and contracts concluded by a central purchasing body established in another Member State if the specific contracting entity is specified therein. (2) In the cases under para. 1 in the case of procurement through the CPC, and in the case of the designation of a contractor on the basis of a framework agreement, the legislation of the Member State in which the central purchasing body is established shall apply. (3) Contracting entities shall not use the possibilities under para. 1 for the purpose of circumventing the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u9	Colleagues, speeches on members with numbers 91 to 98 including names, including divisions? I won't. Anblok, we vote on the reported texts. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u10	"Chapter 10". Conducting public procurement procedures. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 10 which shall become Chapter 11th. In principle, the applicant supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 99: ? Announcement of the initiation of the procedure Art. 99. For disclosure of the opening of procedures, contracting entities shall send: 1. the notice announcing the opening of a procedure to the........................................................................................................... 18, para. 1, t. 1-7 and 11; 2. the decision to open the procedure to the Register of Public Procurement in the cases referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13; 3. the decision to open the procedure and the contract notice to the Register of Public Procurement in the cases referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u11	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter 10th and Art. Ninety-nine, including his name. [[Reply.]] Except there's a head renumber. This will be followed by the final texts. They're reported as per the report, so I'm putting them to the vote. Vote 97 MPs: 86, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u12	Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: Art. 100, para. 10 to fall. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports it. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 100, para. 1 the following text shall be inserted after the words of a person concerned: "In order to ensure the legality of the procedure, to correct omissions or manifest error.' The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 100: "Movement of the Terms and Conditions" Art. 100. (1) The contracting authority may, on its own initiative or at the request of an interested party, make one-off changes to the notice announcing the opening of the procedure, the invitation to confirm interest, the procurement documents and the descriptive document. (2) Interested parties may make proposals for changes in the documents under para. 1 within 10 days of the publication of the notice in the Register of Public Procurement announcing the opening of the procedure and/or receiving the invitation to confirm interest. (3) The contracting authority shall send for publication in the Register of Public Procurement the notice of amendment or additional information and the decision approving it within 14 days of publication in the Register of Public Procurement of the notice announcing the opening of the procedure. (4) When changes are made to the invitation to confirm interest, the contracting authority shall send the documents under para. 3 within 14 days of the sending of the invitation to confirm interest. (5) In the case of procedures in which the time limits for receipt of tenders have been reduced under art. 74, para. Art. 2 or art. 133, para. 2 as well as where the time limits for applications for participation and/or tenders are reduced due to the need for urgent award, the period under para. Two is three days. 3 and 4 " 5 days. (6) After the expiry of the time limits under para. 3-5 the contracting entity may publish multiple notice of amendment or additional information on changes in the terms of the procedure only when it extends the time limits stated. (7) The contracting authority shall extend the time limits for receipt of tenders where: 1. in the cases under para. 1 substantial changes to the terms of the contract which require a change in the tenders of the participants have been made; 2. timely clarification of the terms of the procedure has been requested and they cannot be submitted within the time limit laid down in art. 33, para. 2. (8) The extension of the term under para. 7 must be consistent with the time needed for persons to be acquainted with and reflect the clarifications or changes in the preparation of tenders. (9) No extension of time limits shall be required where the explanations do not require substantial changes in tenders or where they are provided in the cases referred to in art. 33, para. 3. (10) With the notice of amendment or additional information in the case of changes under para. 7, p. 1 Contracting entities shall not introduce conditions that would alter the circle of stakeholders. (11) The contracting authority shall extend the time limits set out in the procedure where this is necessary in relation to appeal proceedings. (12) The contracting authority may extend the announced time limits in the procedure where: 1. no applications or tenders have been received or only one application or tender has been received within the initial time limit; 2. the term referred to in art. 158, para. Four isn't enough. (13) All interested parties are deemed to have been informed by publication of the amendment notice or additional information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u13	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 87 MPs: 29, Against 6, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support it. Vote 88 MPs: 17 against 4, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 100 with its name and the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u14	Article 101. A proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, the Commission supports it in principle. A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Dimitar Delchev, the Commission also supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101: "Request of participation" Art. 101. (1) Depending on the type and stage of the procedure the candidates shall submit applications for participation and the participants shall submit tenders. (2) The application for participation shall contain information on the personal status of applicants and selection criteria. (3) The offer shall contain a technical and price proposal. (4) In an open procedure to their tender, participants shall also provide information on the personal status and selection criteria. (5) When preparing the tender, each participant shall adhere precisely to the conditions announced by the contracting authority. (6) Offers and requests for participation shall be drawn up in Bulgarian. Where the contract has a place of execution outside the Party, the contracting authority may allow the application for participation and the tender to be submitted in an official language of the Party concerned. (7) By the expiry of the time limit for the submission of requests for participation or tenders, any candidate or participant may amend, supplement or withdraw its application or tender. (8) Each participant in a procurement procedure shall have the right to submit only one tender. (9) A person who participates in a merger or has consented to be a sub-contractor to another candidate or participant may not submit an individual application for participation or tender. (10) In a procurement procedure, a natural or legal person may participate in only one merger. (11) Associated persons may not be independent candidates or participants in the same procedure. (12) The content of the tenders and applications for participation, the order and the means of their submission and receipt shall be determined by the Rules of Application of the Law. (13) Where the contract has lots, the conditions under para. 8-11 shall apply separately to each of the lots. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u15	Statements? I won't. We vote Anblok Art. 101 on the report of the Commission and art. 102 by importer supported by it, together with their names. Vote 87 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u16	Article 103. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: A new para. 103 is being created. 2 and 3 with text: The Board shall be composed of one lawyer and at least half of the other members shall be persons with professional competence relating to the subject-matter of the contract. The Commission shall consist of an odd number of members, at least five. (3) In the case of procurement containing or requiring classified information, members of the Commission may only be persons authorised to access classified information under the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. Alinea 2, al. 3 and para. 4 shall be renumbered as para. 4, para. 5 and para. 6................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. There has been a proposal from the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports its proposal to create a new para. 4 and does not support it in the remainder, namely: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 103 the following amendments shall be made: (a) In para. The second sentence and third sentence shall be created with the following text: The composition of the committee shall include one lawyer, and at least half of the other members shall be persons with professional competence relating to the subject-matter of the contract. A procuring entity which does not have staff meeting the requirements for professional competence under para. 2 shall provide external experts from the list referred to in Article 2. 228, para. 1, t. 18. "; (5) The contracting authority shall have the right to control the work of the committee. (c) para. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it after the words the work of the committee is added and the control over its activities. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 103: The Commission shall Art. 103. (1) The contracting authority shall appoint a commission for the selection of candidates and participants, examination and evaluation of tenders and negotiation and dialogue. The Commission shall consist of an odd number of members. (2) As regards the members of the committee, there shall be no conflict of interest with the candidates or participants. (3) The Commission's actions shall be documented and the results of its work shall be reflected in a report. (4) The decisions of the committee shall be taken by a majority of its members. When a member of the committee opposes the decision taken, he shall sign the minutes with particular opinion and give his reasons in writing. (5) The rules for the work of the Commission shall be laid down by the rules for the enforcement of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u17	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Kadiev's proposal, which the Commission does not support. They voted 85 MPs: 11 against 29, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Ananiev and a group of MPs in the part where the Commission does not support him. Vote 81 MPs: 10, against 8, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 103 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u18	Under art. 104 "Review of applications for participations and offers" "A proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: No. 104, para. 1 after the request for a preliminary ruling is added by criteria announced at the opening of the procedure and relating to the capacity for the exercise of professional activity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or to the technical and professional capacities of the applicants, and after the request for a hearing, the proposal of the participants shall be added only. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 104: "Review of applications for participation and tenders Art. 104. (1) In carrying out the public procurement procedures, preliminary selection shall be carried out first, and the tenders of the participants shall be examined. (2) In the case of an open procedure in the contract notice, the contracting entity may provide that the assessment of the technical and price proposals of the participants be carried out before pre-selection is carried out. In such cases, verification of grounds for exclusion and compliance with the selection criteria shall be carried out in a manner that is not affected by the results of the assessment of technical and price proposals. (3) The use of the possibility under para. 2 shall be permitted where all proposals from the tenders to the participants are submitted by a numerical value to be disclosed at the time of the opening of the tenders. (4) Where, as regards the selection criteria or requirements for the personal status of applicants or participants, a lack, incomplete and/or non-compliance of information, including irregularness or factual error, applicants or participants shall be given the opportunity to submit new information, to supplement or clarify the information submitted. (5) When examining the tenders, checks on the data requested by the participants shall be allowed where necessary, including by requiring information from other bodies and persons. Participants may be required to provide clarification or additional evidence of data specified in the tender. The verification and clarification shall not lead to changes in the technical and price proposal of the participants. (6) The order for the removal of discrepancies and irregularities under para. 4 is defined by the Rules of Law Implementation, subject to the principles of equality and transparency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u19	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev, which the Commission does not support. Vote 82 MPs: 8 against 4, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. 104 in its version of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u20	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 105: "Reducing the number of candidates invited to participate Art. 105. (1) In the case of a restricted procedure, a competitive procedure with negotiation, competitive dialogue and innovation partnership, contracting entities may reduce the number of candidates meeting the selection criteria to be invited to submit tenders or to conduct a dialogue. (2) In the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure, contracting entities shall specify the objective and non-discriminatory criteria or rules to be applied to reduce the number of candidates and the minimum number of candidates they intend to invite. Contracting entities may also indicate a maximum number of candidates they intend to invite. (3) In the restricted procedure, the minimum number of candidates shall be 5 and in the case of a competitive procedure with negotiation, competitive dialogue and partnership for innovation three. The number of invited candidates should be sufficient to ensure real competition. (4) Where the number of candidates meeting the requirements set out in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure exceeds the declared maximum number of persons invited to submit tenders, the contracting entity shall select on the basis of the objective and non-discriminatory criteria indicated in the notice. (5) If the contracting authority has indicated in the notice a limit on the number of candidates to be invited to tender, it shall be obliged to invite such a number of candidates, which shall at least be equal to the pre-defined minimum. (6) Where the number of candidates meeting the selection criteria and minimum requirements is below the minimum specified in the notice, the contracting authority may continue the procedure by inviting only candidates meeting those criteria and requirements. (7) The contracting authority may not invite to submit tenders that have not applied for participation or candidates that do not meet the selection criteria and minimum requirements. Under art. 106 Adopting the work of the committee is proposed by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 106: "Accepting the work of the Commission Art. 106. (1) The report referred to in art. 103, para. 3 shall be submitted to the contracting authority for validation. The report shall be accompanied by the reports of the committee's work. (2) Where reasonable doubts arise in the course of the work concerning agreements, decisions or concerted practices between participants within the meaning of art. 15 of the Law on Protection of Competition, this circumstance is mentioned in the report under para. 1. (3) Within 10 days of receipt of the report, the contracting authority shall confirm it or return it to the Commission with written instructions where: 1. the information in it shall not be sufficient to decide on the completion of the procedure, and/or 2. find an infringement in the work of the committee, which can be removed without requiring termination of the procedure. (4) The instructions under para. 3 may not refer to a particular contractor or to certain conclusions by the Commission, but merely to indicate: 1. what information should be included so that there are sufficient reasons to justify the proposals of the Commission in the cases under para. 3, p. 1; 2. the infringement to be resolved in the cases under para. 3, p. 2. (5) The Commission shall submit a new report to the contracting authority containing the results of the review of its actions. (6) Within 10 days of validation of the report, the contracting authority shall issue a decision to appoint a contractor or to terminate the procedure. (7) In the cases under para. 2 The contracting authority shall notify the Commission of the protection of competition. The notification shall not suspend the conduct and conclusion of the procedure. Under art. 107 "Other grounds for exclusion from participation " " a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Dimitar Delchev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 107: Other grounds for exclusion from participation Art. 107. Except for the grounds under art. 54 and 55 the contracting entity shall remove from the procedure: 1. a candidate or participant who does not meet the selection criteria set out or does not fulfil another condition specified in the contract notice, the invitation to confirm interest or the invitation to participate in negotiations or in the documentation; 2. a participant who has submitted an offer which does not comply with: (a) the pre-declared terms of the contract; (b) rules and requirements relating to environmental protection, social and labour law, applicable collective agreements and/or international environmental, social and labour law provisions listed in Annex 10; 3. a participant who has not submitted the justification under art. 72, para. 1 or whose offer has not been accepted under art. 72, para. Three-five. 4. candidates or participants who are related persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u21	We vote from art. 105 to 107 inclusive. They voted 86 MPs: 81, none, abstention 5. Articles 105 to 107, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u22	"Chapter 11............................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 11 which becomes Chapter twelfth. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 108: "Final decisions under the procedure' Art. 108. The procedures under this law shall end with a decision on: 1. designation of a contractor under a contract, including under a contract concluded on the basis of a framework agreement, a CPC or a qualification system; 2. designation of contractors under a framework agreement; 3. ranking of participants and/or award of prizes and/or other payments in a project contest; 4. termination of the procedure Under art. 109 "Determining of the contractor of the public procurement ". A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 109: "Determining of the contractor of the contract Art. 109. The contracting authority shall designate as the contractor a participant for which the following conditions are met: 1. there are no grounds for exclusion from the procedure, except in the cases referred to in Article 1. 54, para. 3 and meets the selection criteria and, where applicable, the non-discriminatory rules and criteria for reducing the number of applicants; 2. the offer of the participant has received the highest assessment in applying the conditions previously announced by the contracting authority and the selected award criterion. Article 110 "Adjournment of the procedure'. Proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov: Art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 "2." there is only one application for participation or one tender that meets the conditions previously announced; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 t. 9 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes the following wording: art. 110: Abort the procedure Art. 110. (1) The contracting authority shall terminate the procedure by reasoned decision where: 1. no tender, application for participation or competition project has been submitted or no negotiating participant has appeared; 2. all tenders or requests for participation shall not be eligible, including for form, method and duration, or shall be unsuitable; 3. all competition projects do not meet the conditions previously announced by the contracting authority; 4. the first and second ranked participants refuse to enter into a contract; 5. violations have been detected in the opening and conduct of the procedure which cannot be corrected without changing the conditions under which the procedure has been announced; 6. for failure to comply with any of the conditions under art. 112, para. 1 a contract shall not be concluded; 7. all tenders which meet the conditions previously announced by the contracting authority exceed the financial resource it may provide; 8. the need to carry out the procedure or to award the contract as a result of a substantial change in circumstances or if it is not possible to provide financing for the performance of the contract for reasons which the contracting authority could not have foreseen; 9. substantial changes are needed in the terms of the announced contract, which would change the circle of stakeholders. (2) The contracting authority may terminate the procedure by a reasoned decision where: 1. only one tender, application for participation or competition project has been submitted; 2. there is only one appropriate application for participation or an appropriate tender; 3. there is only one competition project that meets the conditions previously announced by the contracting entity; 4. the participant ranked first: (a) refuses to enter into a contract; (b) fail to fulfil any of the conditions under art. 112, para. 1, or (c) does not demonstrate that there are no grounds for exclusion from the procedure. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 7 the contracting entity shall necessarily include in the decision the lowest price offered and may not conclude a contract with the same subject-matter for a price equal to or greater than that indicated in the decision when carrying out a subsequent procedure within the same year. (4) Where the original procedure has been terminated, the contracting authority may initiate a new procurement procedure with the same subject-matter only if the termination decision has entered into force. (5) The contracting authority may revoke the decision in force to appoint a contractor and issue a decision to terminate the procedure where a circumstance under para occurs prior to the conclusion of the contract. 1, t. 4, 6 and 8 or para. 2, p. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 11, which becomes Chapter 12, by importer, supported by the Commission, art. 108 and 109, which are supported by the Commission and edited. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 4. The name of Chapter 11, which becomes Chapter twelfth, and art. Art. 108, Art. 109 on the Commission report have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: 16 against 19, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 74 MPs: 11 against 31, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the generally supported text of the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for art. 110. Vote art. 110 on the Commission report. Vote 79 MPs: 71 against none, abstention 8. Article 110 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u24	"Chapters 12 and 12" "Guarantees for implementation." A contract for public procurement. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter twelfth, which becomes Chapter 13th. "Department I" "Performances for implementation". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Under art. 111 has received a proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 111 the following additions and amendments are made: 1. at the end of the sentence of para. (1) after the expression "supplied funds', a comma shall be placed and added which shall not be less than 15% of the value of the contract.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. in para. 2 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 111: "Implementing guarantee" Art. 111. (1) The contracting authority may require the designated contractor to provide guarantees to ensure the performance of the contract or the advance allocation. (2) The guarantee ensuring the performance of the contract shall not exceed 5 per cent of its value. Where the contract is awarded to specialised undertakings or cooperatives of disabled persons, the guarantee for the performance of the contract shall not exceed two per cent of the value of the contract. An enforcement guarantee may also be required in the event of an amendment making additional supplies, services or works under the contract. (3) The guarantee providing the advance may be up to the amount of such funds and shall be released within three days of the return or absorption of the advance. (4) The guarantees provided and their percentage shall be indicated in the notice announcing the opening of the procedure, in the invitation to confirm interest or in the invitation to participate in negotiations. (5) The guarantees shall be provided in one of the following forms: 1. cash amount; 2. bank guarantee; 3. insurance that ensures the performance by covering the responsibility of the contractor. (6) The guarantee under para. 5, t. 1 or 2 may be provided on behalf of the contractor at the expense of a third party. (7) The participant appointed as a contractor shall choose the form of the enforcement guarantee or the advance allocation. (8) Where the selected contractor is a non-legal entity, each of its partners may order the bank guarantee, respectively an importer of the amount under the guarantee or an insurance holder. (9) The conditions and time limits for the retention or release of the enforcement guarantee shall be laid down in the contract. (10) Where the contract is executed in stages, the contracting entity shall include in the draft contract a clause for partial release of guarantees, respectively of the part of the subject-matter of the contract. Where the subject-matter of the contract includes guarantee maintenance, the contracting authority shall determine in the draft contract what part of the performance guarantee is intended to secure the guaranteed maintenance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u25	Continue to art. 115 included.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u26	"Department II.......................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Article 112 "Concluding a contract'. Proposal by the National Representative Lachezar Nikolov, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3, and the proposal under point 3. One and two are withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 112: A contract shall be concluded between the Contracting Parties Art. 112. (1) The contracting authority shall conclude a written contract with the designated contractor provided that, upon signature of the contract, the designated contractor: 1. present a document for registration in accordance with the requirement of art. 10, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. fulfil the obligation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is 3. present the specified guarantee for the execution of the contract; 4. make an appropriate registration, submit a document or meet another requirement necessary for the performance of the contract in accordance with the requirements of a regulatory or administrative act and is placed by the contracting authority in the terms of the contract. (2) The contracting entity shall not enter into a contract where the participant ranked first: 1. refuses to enter into a contract; 2. do not fulfil any of the conditions under para. 1, or 3. does not prove that there are no grounds for removal from the procedure. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The contracting entity may amend the decision entered into force in the defining part of the contractor and by a reasoned decision to designate the second rated contractor. (4) The contract shall correspond to the draft contract annexed to the documentation supplemented by all proposals from the offer of the participant on the basis of which the latter is designated as the contractor of the contract. Changes to the draft contract shall be permitted exceptionally when the condition laid down in art. 116, para. 1, t. 5 and imposed by circumstances occurring during or after the procedure. (5) The mandatory minimum content of the contract shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (6) The contracting authority shall conclude the contract within one month of the entry into force of the decision determining the contractor or the definition by which the pre-execution of that decision is permitted, but not before the expiry of a 14-day period from the notification of the candidates concerned and/or the participants concerned of the decision determining the contractor. (7) The contracting authority may conclude a contract before the expiry of the 14-day period of notification of the candidates concerned and/or the participants concerned of the decision to appoint a contractor in the following cases: 1. the contractor is defined as a result of: (a) procedure under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13 and there is only one invited participant or (b) procedure under art. 18, para. 1, t. 8-10 and 13, opened on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1, t. Art. 4, Art. 138, para. Art. 1, art. 164, para. 1, t. Art. 3 or 4 or art. 182, para. 1, t. 1 and there are more invited participants; 2. the designated contractor is the only interested participant and there are no interested candidates, or 3. the contract shall be concluded on the basis of a framework agreement with one participant. (8) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to enter into a contract with the designated contractor prior to the entry into force of all decisions under the procedure, unless prior execution or when a procedure is opened on the basis of art. 79, para. 1, t. Art. 4, Art. 138, para. Art. 1, art. 164, para. 1, t. Art. 3 or 4 or art. 182, para. 1, t. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Article 113 "The time limit for public procurement contracts'. Proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 113: Time limit for public procurement contracts Art. 113. (1) Contracts with periodic or continuous implementation shall be concluded for a period not exceeding 5 years. (2) By way of exception, contracting entities may conclude contracts for a longer period where this is necessary due to the nature of the subject-matter of the contract, the need to return the investment or for technical reasons, the contracting entity shall state the reasons for this in the opening decision. (3) The term of contracts concluded on the basis of a framework agreement may exceed the term of the agreement: 1. with no more than one year - where time is needed to complete the performance of the subject matter of the contract; 2. with more than one year - when related to the implementation of activities serving the main object, including guarantee service and training of staff. (4) The conclusion of fixed-term contracts for public contracts or contracts which are automatically extended shall not be permitted. Contracts concluded in violation of the rules of para. 1 and 2 are deemed to be concluded in one year. Article 114 Proposal by the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 114: supposed Art. 114. Where funding is not provided at the opening of the procedure, the contracting authority shall indicate this fact in the notice or call for confirmation of interest and provide for a deferred execution clause in the draft contract. In this case, either Party may request termination of the contract without notice upon expiry of a period of three months from its conclusion. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 115.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u27	You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111, para. 2 is written that the guarantee providing for the performance of the contract cannot exceed 5 percent of its value. I think we should also introduce a minimum threshold here, because this is how it can be understood that the guarantee can actually be 0.1%. That's why I'm doing an editorial amendment: it can't be less than 5 percent and not more than 10 percent of its value. And in the second sentence of the same paragraph:.. can not be less than 2 percent and more than 5 percent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u29	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a very short line. I just want to let you know, fellow Members, that, for example, on the European projects for large sites, the guarantees are 35%. So, if you can, don't put any upper limits on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u31	In the Commission's report, there is a restriction on not being more than 5. Are you going to use a hole? Mr. Andreev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 111 paragraphs 1 and 2 have two thin places. In para. 1 We do not say anything about the advance on a given contract. The case I'm going to tell you is one of the serious examples that confirm this absence and actually make it quite serious. The construction of the so-called "North Tangent" is worth 110 million. lv. The guarantee is 2%, i.e. around 2 million. 200,000. lv. It is not serious when such huge volumes of construction are made, the guarantee is 2%. Where the State or municipalities decide to make any construction and to be serious about their desire as contracting entities, there must be some number to say how much should be at least the advance which the contracting entity concerned gives for the given procurement. Otherwise, you know what's going on, don't you? Then we won't be interested in which firm can do it. Only those companies that have a serious banking lobby that can accumulate serious turnover, at such a low rate of 2%, at 110 million worth of the order could have the courage to appear on this public procurement. Here indirectly, once we do not fix how much the advance on the value of the order can be, we again allow the large corporations, which used the bank CCB as a guarantee, to participate in such public procurement. So I've proposed a figure of 15, 10 or 5, but it has to be a real number, not just to say the funds. My offer is 15%, we can do it 10%, but there has to be some number.................................................................................................. The other which is...... in para....................................................................................... 2 We say: The guarantee providing for the execution of the contract cannot exceed 5 percent of its value. Wait now, we have such bitter experience with all projects, whether they were European or with our funding. There is almost no project on which there are no objections from the mayors of municipalities! Well, how about 5%? In order to ensure the quality of implementation of this project, there must be a clear range. I've said up to 10%, but the right way, and so I'm going to propose it as an editorial amendment is to be 5 to 10%! There's a guarantee that there's some weight in the company's head when it transmits the object. Recently Mrs. Fandakova fined the executor of the National Palace of Culture 600 thousand. lv.! We have many such examples. I don't see the logic of reducing this percentage of the guarantee. My suggestion is that the guarantee providing for the execution of the contract be between 5 and 10 per cent...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u33	The same offer Mr. Popov made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u34	So I support Mr. Popov. I wasn't paying attention when he talked. This is logic, otherwise we reaffirm this extensive approach to the execution of public procurements to accumulate quantity without having quality and no guarantee that the state will have the ability to control quality. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u35	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Metodi Andreev? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter twelfth by importer, which shall become Chapter XIII, and the name of Section I by importer, which shall remain Section I in the Commission report, after supporting the text of the importer. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2. The name of Chapter twelfth, which becomes the thirteenth of Section I of the Commission report, has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: 29, against 10, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. A proposal made by MP Philip Popov from the parliamentary tribune in art. 111, para. 2 in the first sentence, which, according to him, is to acquire the following form: The guarantee providing for the performance of the contract shall not be less than 5 per cent and not more than 10 per cent of its value. The same was recognized by Mr. Metodi Andreyev. Please vote. 90 MPs voted: 34 against 25, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. There is another proposal from the MP Philip Popov in the same para. 2 of art. 111. It proposes in the following sentence: "When the contract is awarded to specialized enterprises or cooperatives of disabled persons, the guarantee for the execution of the contract shall not be less than 2 per cent and not more than 5 per cent. Please vote on this proposal. They voted 91 MPs: 33, against 30, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 111 to 115, including those supported by the Commission, as well as the name of Section II. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 66, against 10, abstention 4. The name of Section II and Articles 111 to 115 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u36	Under art. 116 has a proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: Article 116, paragraph 1, point (b) is replaced by the following: 4 (a) and 4 (b) 6 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 116: "Development of a contract for public procurement and Framework Agreement Art. 116. (1) Procurement contracts and framework agreements may be amended only where: 1. the changes are provided for in the procurement documents and in the contract through clear, accurate and unambiguous clauses, including clauses for price change or options; the scope and nature of possible amendments or options, and the conditions under which they may be used, shall not lead to a change in the subject-matter of the contract or the framework agreement; 2. due to unforeseen circumstances there has been a need for additional supplies, services or works not included in the initial contract if the change of contractor: (a) is impossible for economic or technical reasons, including requirements for interchangeability or interoperability with existing equipment, services or facilities awarded by the original contract; and (b) would cause significant difficulties related to the maintenance, operation and service or duplication of costs of the contracting entity; 3. due to circumstances which the contracting authority could not provide for in due care, there has been a need for an amendment which does not lead to a change of the subject-matter of the contract or framework agreement; 4. a replacement of the contractor with a new contractor shall be required under any of the following conditions: (a) the original contractor shall not be able to continue the performance of the contract or framework agreement and the possibility of replacement is provided for in the procurement documents and in the contract through clear, precise and unambiguous clauses concerning the existence of specific conditions; (b) there is a universal or partial right as a result of the conversion of the original contractor, by infusion, merger, separation or separation, or by changing its legal form, including in cases where it is in liquidation or open insolvency proceedings and the following conditions are met at the same time: (aa) for the new contractor there are no grounds for exclusion from the procedure and it meets the initially established selection criteria; (bb) the change of the contractor does not lead to any other substantial modification of the contract or framework agreement and does not seek to circumvent the law; 5. amendments are required which are not substantial; 6. the amendment is necessary due to unforeseen circumstances and does not alter the overall nature of the contract or framework agreement and the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) the value of the modification shall be up to 10 per cent of the value of the initial service and supply contract and up to 15 per cent of the value of the original works contract; (b) the value of the change, irrespective of the conditions laid down in point (a) (ii) (i) shall not exceed the relevant threshold value under art. 20, para. 1. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3, if a price increase is required, it may not exceed by more than 50 percent the value of the basic contract or framework agreement. Where successive amendments are made, the limit shall apply to the total value of the amendments. Consequential amendments must not aim to circumvent the law. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 6 when several successive amendments are made, their total value may not exceed those maximum dimensions. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2, 3 and 6, where the contract contains an indexing clause or is concluded at fixed prices, the actual value at the time of the amendment shall be taken as a base. (5) Amendment of a contract shall be considered essential within the meaning of para. 1, t. 5 where one or more of the following conditions are met: 1. the amendment introduces conditions which, if they were part of the procurement procedure, would involve additional participants or candidates, would allow the admission of other participants or candidates other than those originally selected, or would lead to the acceptance of a tender other than that initially accepted; 2. the modification results in benefits for the contractor which were not known to the other participants in the procedure; 3. the amendment concerns the subject-matter or volume of the contract or framework agreement. 4. the performer is replaced by a new one outside the cases of para. 1, t. 4. (6) When amending a contract concluded by a sectoral contracting entity, the conditions under para. 2 shall not apply. "Receivability of claims" "Art. 117. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117: The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Art. 117. Cash claims on public procurement contracts and sub-contracts are transferable, can be bet on, and enforcement may be carried out. Art. 118 "Crossing a contract or a framework agreement." A proposal from Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 118: "Recruitment of a contract for public procurement or Framework Agreement Art. 118. (1) The contracting authority shall terminate the contract or framework agreement in the cases provided for in law, in the contract or agreement, or where: 1. a substantial modification of the contract is necessary which does not allow the contract or framework agreement to be amended on the basis of art. 116, para. 1; 2. it is established that during the procedure for the award of the contract for the contractor there were circumstances under art. 54, para. 1, t. 1, on the basis of which it should have been removed from the procedure; 3. the contract should not have been awarded to the contractor due to the existence of an infringement given by the Court of Justice of the European Union in a procedure under art. 258 TFEU. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 the contracting entity does not owe compensation for the damage suffered by the termination of the contract or framework agreement. ? Degradable contracts The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 119: supplied contracts or framework agreements Art. 119. (1) Contracts or framework agreements shall be destructive when they are concluded: 1. without a procurement procedure despite the existence of a basis for its conduct or where the procedure has been conducted without compliance with the requirement of art. 99; 2. in the event of unlawful application of the grounds of art. Art. 13 15, Art. 79, para. Art. 1, art. 138, para. Art. 1, art. 149, para. Art. 1, art. 164, para. 1 or art. 182, para. 1; 3. prior to the entry into force of an act of the contracting authority issued in connection with the procedure and an infringement which has affected the possibility of: (a) an interested party shall submit an application for participation or an offer; (b) an interested candidate to submit an offer; (c) an interested candidate or participant to take part in the designation of a contractor. (2) The contracting authority shall terminate a contract concluded on the basis of a framework agreement which has been destroyed in judicial order. The Commission supports the text of the importer in art. 120. "Chapter 13" "File of the public procurement". The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter XIII, which becomes Chapter 14. Art. 121 "Discovery and accountability." A proposal from Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, the Commission supports it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 121: ? Documentation and reporting Art. 121. (1) Contracting entities shall establish and maintain a file for each procurement in order to ensure documentary traceability [[Edition path]] in respect of all its actions and decisions, as well as the actions of the public procurement committees, whether or not contracts are awarded by electronic means. (2) The file shall contain all decisions, notices, documentation and other additional documents, clarifications, invitations, minutes, final reports of the Commission, tenders or requests for participation, evidence of the actions taken under art. 44, para. 3-5, a description of the reasons why other means are used to submit documents other than electronic in electronic submission and, in the case of ex ante controls, the opinions of the Public Procurement Agency and the reasons of the contracting authority for the unaccepted recommendations. The file shall contain the contract or framework agreement, as well as any documents relating to the implementation and its reporting. (3) Contracting entities shall keep the information relating to contracts when applying the exceptions to the law. The time limit for the storage shall be published in the Official Journal of the European The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 122: Time limit for storage Art. 122. (1) Files under art. 121, para. 1 and the information referred to in art. 121, para. 3 shall be kept for a period of 5 years from the date of completion of the contract or from the date of termination of the procedure. (2) The time limits under para. 1 may be extended if this results from working rules of financing, auditing and certification bodies in relation to the provision of funds under projects and programmes by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u37	That's it. Statements, colleagues, on the reported texts of art. Article 116 122 included? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put the proposal under Article to the vote. 116 to Mr. Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 79 MPs: 11 against 12, abstention 56. We are now voting on articles with numbers 116 to 122 including, together with their names, including the name of Chapter 13th, which becomes Chapter 14. We vote. Vote 72 MPs: 67, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u38	Part Three "Several special rules for the award of public contracts by sectoral entities. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Part Three be amended as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. "Chapter 14" "Communications in Sectoral Activities." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 14 which becomes Chapter 15. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 123: "Species" Art. 123. Sectoral activities are activities related to: 1. natural gas and heat; 2. electricity; 3. water supply; 4. transport services; 5. exploitation of a geographical area; 6. Postal services. Art. 124 "Nature gas and heat." The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124: Natural gas and heat Art. 124. (1) Activities related to natural gas and heat are: 1. provision or operation of fixed networks for public services in connection with the production, transport or distribution of natural gas or heat; 2. supply of networks under point 2. 1 with natural gas or heat; 3. production and wholesale and retail of natural gas or heat. (2) The supply of natural gas or heat to fixed public service networks by a sector entity shall not be considered as activity under para. 1 where the following conditions are met: 1. the production of natural gas or heat energy is the result of the activity of different activities under para. 1 or under art. 123, p. 2-4; 2. the supply of these networks shall only aim at the economic exploitation of the production of natural gas or heat, provided that the quantity of supply is not more than 20 per cent of the manufacturer's average annual turnover for the last three years, including for the current year. "Electrostros" "Art. 125. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 125: "Electro-energy" Art. 125. (1) Electricity-related activities shall be: 1. provision or operation of fixed networks for public services in connection with the production, transmission or distribution of electricity; 2. supply of networks under point 2. 1 with electricity; 3. production and wholesale and retail of electricity. (2) The supply of electricity to fixed public service networks by a sectoral contracting entity shall not be deemed to be activity under para. 1 where the following conditions are met: 1. the production of electricity is realized because of the fact that its consumption is necessary for the operation of activities different from the activities under para. 1 or under art. 123, p. 1, 3 and 4; 2. the supply of these networks depends only on the contracting entity's own consumption and has not exceeded 30 percent of its total energy production, taking into account the average of the last three years, including the current year. .............................................................................................. 126. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 126: supplied water supply Art. 126. (1) Water-related activities shall be: 1. provision or operation of fixed networks for public services in connection with the production, transport or distribution of drinking water; 2. supply of networks under point 2. 1 with drinking water; 3. production and wholesale and retail of drinking water. (2) Persons operating under para. 1 shall apply the provisions of the law to contracts for contracts or design contests relating to: 1. hydrotechnical projects, irrigation or drainage, provided that the quantity of water intended for drinking requires more than 20 per cent of the total water provided by such irrigation or drainage projects or facilities; or 2. disposal and treatment of waste water. (3) The supply of drinking water to fixed public service networks by a sectoral contracting entity shall not be considered as activity under para. 1 where the following conditions are met: 1. the production of drinking water shall be carried out in view of the need to use it to carry out activities different from the activities under art. 123, p. 1-4; 2. the supply of these networks depends only on the producer's own consumption and does not exceed 30 percent of its total production of drinking water, taking into account the average of the last three years, including the current year. Transport services. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs for art. 127. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 127: Transport services Art. 127. (1) Activities relating to transport services shall be the provision or operation of public service networks in the field of rail, tram, trolleybus or bus transport, as well as of automated transport systems or cable lines. (2) As regards transport services, a network shall be deemed to exist when the service is provided under operating conditions established by a competent authority which may include the conditions of service routes, the capacity to be available, the frequency of service and others. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 128: A geographical area shall be defined as the geographical area of the geographical area of the Art. 128. Activities related to the exploitation of a geographical area are activities aimed at: 1. ensuring the use of airports and sea or inland ports or other terminals by air, sea or inland waterway carriers; 2. extraction of oil or natural gas; 3. studies for or extraction of coal or other solid fuels. Article 129 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 129.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u39	Colleagues, speeches on Part III, along with Chapter 14, which becomes Chapter 15? These are members with numbers 123 to 129. I won't. Anblok, we vote on the reported texts. 90 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u40	? Chapter 15?? Sectoral activity?? The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 15 which becomes Chapter 16 be amended as follows: "Chapters 16 and Article 130 "Activities directly exposed to competition'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 130: "Activities directly exposed to competition Art. 130. (1) The law shall not apply to public contracts and design contests designed to create conditions for the implementation of activity under art. 123 if the activity is directly exposed to competition and is realised in a market where access is not restricted. (2) The assessment of the existence of competition shall be carried out on the basis of monitoring of the relevant geographic market for the activity under investigation and shall include criteria laid down in accordance with the TFEU. Those criteria may relate to the characteristics of the goods or services concerned, the availability of alternative goods or services, prices and the possibility of more than one supplier offering those goods or services. (3) Access to a particular market shall be unlimited if the acts of the European Union under Annex No 12 are introduced into national law. In all cases market access shall be deemed free if proven. (4) The activity to which para. 1, may be part of a larger sector or industry. (5) The activity to which para. 1 may cover the territory of the whole country or a separate geographical area. (6) In a competition study, account shall be taken of the area in which the undertakings concerned operate, including by examining the supply and demand of goods or services, the conditions of competition in terms of uniformity shall be assessed so that the area is distinguished from neighbouring areas in which the conditions of competition are substantially different. The nature and characteristics of the goods or services, the presence of barriers to entry into the market of other persons, consumer preferences, significant differences in the market shares of undertakings between the region and neighbouring regions and significant price differences shall be assessed. Article 131. "Procedure to exclude sectoral activity from the scope of the law.' Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 131: Procedure for exclusion of sectoral activity from the scope of the law Art. 131. (1) The procedure for the exclusion of sectoral activity shall be carried out by European Commission rules. (2) The Council of Ministers may submit a request to the European Commission on the basis of the criteria of art. 130 in order to establish that a particular activity is directly exposed to competition. Where necessary, the request shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent national authority competent in relation to the activity concerned. (3) In the request under para. 1 shall state all the facts relevant for excluding sectoral activity from the scope of the law, including applicable regulations and existing administrative arrangements. seventeenths of public procurement. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 16 which becomes Chapter 17th. Divide I................................................................................ The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section I be amended as follows: Section I - Procedures applied by sectoral entities. Article 132 "Rules for the selection of a procedure for the award of contracts by sectoral entities'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 132: "Free selection of procedure" Art. 132. In the case of procurement, sectoral contracting entities shall choose a freely open and restricted procedure, negotiated with a preliminary invitation to participate and a competitive dialogue. Article 133 "Open procedure'. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 133, para. 4 texts which require an urgent award of the contract.............................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 133: Open procedure Art. 133. (1) The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders in open procedure shall be 35 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (2) The term under para. 1 may be shortened but may not be shorter than 15 days if the contracting authority has published a periodic indicative notice and it: 1. has been sent for publication between 35 days and 12 months before the date of dispatch of the contract notice, and 2. shall include all information referred to in Section I of Part A of Annex No 5. (3) The term under para. 1 may be reduced by 5 days when the contracting authority has allowed the submission of tenders by electronic means in accordance with art. 39, para. 1, 2 and 8 " 13. (4) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the term under para. 1 Contracting entities may set a time limit for receipt of tenders not less than 15 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (5) In the contract notice, the contracting entity shall motivate the application of para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u41	Colleagues, speeches on Chapter 15, which becomes Chapter 16, together with Articles 130 to 133 inclusive? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs for editing in art. 133. The Commission does not support it. They voted 93 MPs: 23, Against 14, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the name of Chapter 15, which becomes Chapter 16, members with numbers 130 to 133, including on the Commission report, together with their names. Vote 88 MPs: 72, against 5, abstention 11. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u42	Article 134 Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 134, para. 3 the texts which require an urgent award of a contract The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 134, para. 4 at the end of the sentence after the call for a call for proposals, the criteria relating to the professional activity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or the technical and professional capacity of the applicant shall be added to the procedure. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 134: supplied procedure Art. 134. (1) Any person may apply for participation in a limited procedure in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) The minimum period for receipt of applications for participation in a restricted procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of: 1. the contract notice for publication, or 2. the invitation to confirm interest where the opening of the procedure has been used on a periodic basis. (3) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the term under para. 2, Contracting entities may set a time limit for receipt of requests for participation which may not be shorter than 15 days. (4) In a restricted procedure, tenders shall submit only candidates which the contracting authority has invited after prior selection. (5) The period for receiving tenders may be determined by agreement between the contracting authority and the selected candidates. The agreement shall be admissible only if all candidates are granted the same time limit for the preparation and submission of tenders. (6) When no agreement is reached under para. 5, the time limit shall be determined by the contracting authority and shall not be less than 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. "Negotiation procedure with prior invitation to participate" "Art. 135. Proposal by Grozdan Karadjov in art. 135, para. 3 texts which require urgent procurement to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 135, para. A second sentence shall be added with the following text: The criteria for pre-selection shall be announced at the opening of the procedure and shall refer to the professional capacity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or to the technical and professional capacities of the applicant. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following wording: art. 135: supplier procedure with prior invitation to participate Art. 135. (1) Any person may apply for participation in negotiations with a prior invitation to participate in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) The minimum period for receipt of applications for participation in the procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of: 1. the contract notice for publication, or 2. the invitation to confirm interest where the opening of the procedure has been used on a periodic basis. (3) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the term under para. 2, contracting entities may set a time limit for receipt of requests for participation which may not be less than 15 days. (4) In the procedure, only candidates invited by the contracting authority after prior selection may submit initial tenders to serve as a basis for negotiations. (5) The period for receiving tenders may be determined by agreement between the contracting authority and the selected candidates. The agreement shall be admissible only if all candidates are granted the same time limit for the preparation and submission of tenders. (6) When no agreement is reached under para. 5, the time limit shall be determined by the contracting authority and shall not be less than 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. "Competition dialogue" "Art. 136. Proposal by Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs in art. Paragraph 136. 3 texts which require urgent procurement to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 136. A second sentence shall be added with the following text: The criteria for pre-selection shall be announced at the opening of the procedure and shall refer to the professional capacity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or to the technical and professional capacities of the applicant. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 136: "Competitive dialogue" Art. 136. (1) Any person may apply for participation in a competitive dialogue in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) The contracting authority shall indicate in the notice and/or in a descriptive document its needs and requirements, the award criteria, the performance indicators for the evaluation of tenders and an indicative timetable for the conduct of the procedure. (3) The minimum time limit for receipt of requests for participation shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. In the event of circumstances requiring the urgent award of a contract, it is therefore impossible to comply with the time limit, contracting entities may set a time limit for receipt of requests for participation which may not be shorter than 15 days. (4) Only candidates invited by the contracting authority after pre-selection may participate in the next stage of the dialogue procedure. (5) During the dialogue, all matters relating to the contract may be discussed in order to determine the parameters which best satisfy the needs of the contracting entity. (6) When conducting the dialogue, the contracting authority shall ensure a level playing field by not providing information in a way that may give priority to certain participants at the expense of others. (7) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to provide the proposals or any other confidential information received from a participant in the conduct of the dialogue to the other participants without its explicit consent on a case-by-case basis. (8) The dialogue may take place at successive stages in order to reduce the number of decisions to be discussed by applying the award criterion and the assessment indicators specified in the contract notice or the descriptive document. Where the contracting authority intends to conduct a dialogue at successive stages, the contracting authority shall indicate that in the notice or in the descriptive document. (9) The contracting authority shall conduct the dialogue until the decision or decisions which may satisfy its needs have been determined. (10) Upon notification of the closed dialogue, the contracting authority shall notify all participants remaining at the last stage and invite them to submit final tenders drawn up on the basis of the decision or decisions specified during the dialogue. Offers shall contain all the mandatory elements necessary for the performance of the contract. (11) In the case of procurement by competitive dialogue, the contracting authority shall assess the tenders on the criterion of optimal quality/price ratio and in accordance with the indicators specified in the contract notice or in the descriptive document. (12) The contracting authority may request that tenders be clarified, specified or improved. The explanations, clarifications and improvements and additional information provided shall not change the essential characteristics of the tender or contract, including the needs and requirements of the notice or descriptive document, if this can lead to distortion of competition or discrimination. (13) The contracting entity may negotiate with the participant who has submitted an offer with an optimal quality/price ratio to confirm the financial commitments or other terms of the tender by finalising the terms of the contract. The setting of the conditions must not result in a change in substance of the basic parameters of the tender or contract, including the specified needs and requirements in the notice or descriptive document, as well as distortion of competition or discrimination. (14) The contracting authority may provide awards or payments for participants in the dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u43	Are there any statements by members with numbers 134 to 136 included? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will not tire of repeating here, as in previous articles, it is again recorded in art. Paragraph 136. 3 one legal moment according to the importers.. the sending of the notice. It cannot be a legally relevant moment for the contractor to send the notice because from that moment on, it is subject to time limits. There's a 30-day period here. The period legally relevant to the contractor shall be from the date of his knowledge. It is despised that he found out at the date of the notice. That is why I am doing an editorial amendment again. The time limit for receiving an application for participation is 30 days from the date of publication of the contract notice. This is the normal legal logical text that follows the logic of all our other procedural laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u45	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed and we are going to vote. I will first submit the name of Section I of Chapter 16 by importer, which becomes Chapter 17th. We vote on the name of Section I. Vote 89 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs for editorials the proposal is the same in art. 134, para. Art. 3, Art. 135, para. Art. 3 and Art. Paragraph 136. 3. The text that they propose is to be dropped as they are identical for symmetry in the three texts. I put to the vote the three members: 134, 135, 136. 3, Mr. Karadjov's proposal and group to drop a certain text is not in favour of these proposals. Vote 88 MPs: 15 against 25, abstention 48. The proposals have not been accepted. Analog is the case with Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposals. It proposes adding text to para. 4 of art. Art. 134, Art. Art. 135 and Art. 135 The Commission does not support these proposals by Mr. Andreev. We vote. They voted 89 MPs: 11 against 10, abstention 68. The proposals have not been accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by Mr. Philip Popov: in art. Paragraph 136. 3 instead of from the date of dispatch it shall be from the date of receipt of the request. Is that right, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u46	From the date of publication.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u47	As you said in the transcript, that's how we vote. We are voting on Mr. Popov's proposal made in the Chamber. They voted 93 MPs: 17 against 31, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. Vote art. Art. 134, Art. Art. 135 and Art. 135 136 together with their names in the version of the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 12. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u48	Article 137 "Partnership for Innovation" a proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 137, para. 4 the texts which require an urgent award of a contract The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 137: "Innovation partnership" Art. 137. (1) Any person may apply for participation in an innovation partnership in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) In the procurement documents, the contracting entity shall motivate the need to obtain an innovative commodity, service or construction, as well as the inability to be satisfied through the proposals available on the market. The contracting authority shall describe its needs by indicating which elements of the description are minimum requirements to be met by all tenders. The information provided must be sufficiently accurate to enable interested parties to determine the nature and scope of the decision sought and to assess whether they should participate in the procedure. (3) In the procurement documents, the contracting entity shall lay down the rules applicable to intellectual property rights. (4) The minimum period for receipt of an application for participation in the innovation partnership procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice. In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the time limit, the contracting authority may set a time limit for receipt of requests for participation which may not be shorter than 15 days. (5) In the case of preliminary selection, the contracting authority shall assess the technical and professional capabilities of candidates in the field of research and development and the development and implementation of innovative solutions. (6) Only candidates invited by the contracting authority after prior selection may submit tenders for research and innovation. (7) The contracting authority may provide for a phased negotiation in order to reduce the number of tenders by applying the award criteria and the evaluation indicators specified in the notice. Where the contracting authority intends to make use of this option, the contracting authority shall indicate that in the notice. (8) The contracting authority shall negotiate with the participants to improve the content of the initial and subsequent tenders with the exception of final tenders. (9) The minimum requirements and assessment indicators shall not be subject to negotiation and shall not change. (10) In the case of procurement through an innovation partnership, the contracting authority shall assess the tenders only according to the criterion of optimal quality/price ratio. (11) When conducting the negotiations, the contracting authority shall ensure equal treatment of participants by not providing information in a way that may give priority to certain participants at the expense of others. (12) When conducting the negotiations, the contracting authority shall inform in writing all participants whose tenders have not been removed of any changes to the technical specifications or any other document from the procurement documents other than the one setting the minimum requirements. After such changes have been made, the contracting authority shall provide the participants with sufficient time to modify and re-submit the modified tenders. (13) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to provide the proposals or other confidential information received from a negotiating participant to the other participants without express consent on a case-by-case basis. (14) The Innovation Partnership Treaty aims at developing an innovative product, service or construction and the subsequent acquisition of the resulting supplies, services or works provided that they correspond to the performance levels and maximum costs agreed between the contracting entity and the participant/participants. (15) The partnership contract shall regulate the execution of the contract at successive stages according to the steps in the research and innovation process, which may include the production of products, the provision of services or the performance of works. (16) The partnership contract shall set out the intermediate objectives to be achieved and the contributions to be paid accordingly. (17) The contracting authority shall ensure that the different stages of the partnership reflect the degree of innovation of the proposed solution and the consistency of the research and innovation activities necessary for the development of the innovative solution. (18) The expected value of the purchased supplies, services or works must be proportionate to the investment needed to develop them. (19) The contracting entity shall not be entitled to disclose to the other partners the proposed solutions or other confidential information provided by a partner within the framework of the partnership without express consent of the contracting entity on a case-by-case basis. (20) In the cases referred to in para. 16, the contracting entity may complete the innovation partnership after each stage and, in the case of an innovation partnership with several partners, reduce their number by terminating individual contracts if it has indicated this possibility and the conditions for this in the procurement documents. ? Negotiation without prior invitation to participate?????.......................................................................................... 138. A proposal by Kirilov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 138: ? Negotiation procedure without prior invitation to participate Art. 138. (1) Sectoral contracting entities may apply a negotiated procedure without prior invitation to participate on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1, t. 1-4, 6-10, and when: 1. the contract is intended only for research, experimentation, research or development; the contracts awarded do not cover production in quantities that allow sufficient market realization or cover the costs of research and development; 2. In a very short time, there is an opportunity to obtain supplies at particularly advantageous conditions and at a price significantly lower than usual market prices; in this case, those who offer goods at prices lower than market prices are invited. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 The award of the contract shall be without prejudice to the possibility of other interested parties to participate in subsequent contracts with the same or similar subject matter. (3) In the conduct of a negotiated procedure without prior invitation to participate on the basis of art. 79, para. 1, t. 6 restrictions under art. 79, para. 3 shall not apply. (4) By the decision initiating the procedure, the contracting authority shall motivate the applicable basis under para. 1. (5) The conditions and procedures for the conduct of the procedure shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. "Project Contest" "Project Competition" "Art. 139. Proposal by Metodi Andreev........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the composition of the jury, at least half of the members must be competent and able specialists on the subject of the project, if possible persons with educational and scientific degrees. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from Daniel Kirilov, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 139: "Project Contest" Art. 139. The project contest shall be conducted according to the provision of art. 80........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u49	Are there any speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u50	Thank you, Madam President. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137, para. 18 is written down that the expected value of the purchased supplies, services or works must be proportionate to the investment needed to develop them. I propose an editorial amendment.. to be greater or equal to the investment...................................................... So it can't be bigger or equal, of course, it's insane and it can't be smaller. So I suggest that it be larger or equal. I'm going back to Al. 4, but once again, I warn you that I am legally responsible for sending again the statement, but I am already refusing to make editorial amendments as well. Apparently, the gym doesn't accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u51	I take it by para. 4 you don't have a formal proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u52	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u53	Okay. Any lines to Mr. Popov? I won't. We're going to vote if there are no other MPs? I don't see any requests for a statement. First, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs in art. 137, para. 4 texts which require urgent procurement to be rejected which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 20, Against 19, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposal for editorial in art. 139 para. 6 which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 5 against 14, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Philip Popov's editorial proposal, made in the Chamber, for editing of art. 137, para. 18 in the version of the Commission's report, the text corresponding to the investment to be read is greater than or equal to the investment. Vote 80 MPs: 16 against 26, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the Commission's proposals for editorials of art. 137, 138 and 139, together with their names. Vote 82 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted. Section II, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u54	Thank you. Section II - Techniques and tools for electronic and combined orders. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section II be amended as follows: "Department II" "Specific techniques and procurement instruments". "Dynamic purchasing system" "Art. 140. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 140: "Dynamic purchasing system" Art. 140. (1) In the case of procurement through the CPC, the period for receipt of applications for participation under art. 85, para. 2 may not be less than 15 days. (2) In the event that a sectoral contracting entity reduces the term under art. 85, para. 2, it shall specify the circumstances on the basis of which the time limit has been shortened. (3) Where the contracting authority has provided grounds for exclusion and/or selection criteria in accordance with art. 144, para. 2, it may, at any time during the period of validity of the SPS, request the applicants admitted to submit an EEDOP with updated information on the requested data on the basis of which they are included in the DSP. (4) The information under para. 3 shall be provided within 5 working days of receipt of the request. (5) At any time during the period of validity of the CPC, the contracting authority may request applicants to submit documents demonstrating the circumstances of the ESPD. (6) The provisions of Section II of Chapter 10a shall apply to outstanding issues concerning the establishment, extension and termination of the CPCs, as well as to the award of contracts within the CPC. "Department III" "Qualification systems". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. "Creating qualifying systems" "Art. 141. A proposal by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 141: "Creating qualification systems" Art. 141. (1) Sectoral contracting entities may establish and use economic qualification systems. In such cases, they shall draw up a notice in accordance with a template containing at least the information set out in Annex 13. The notice shall specify the purpose and duration of the qualification system and the means of access to its implementing rules. (2) Sectoral contracting entities shall declare any change in the duration of the qualification system as well as its termination using the following templates: 1. a notification of the rating system in the event of a change of the duration without termination of the rating system; 2. a contract award notice at the time of termination of the rating system. (3) Qualification systems shall be organised in such a way as to enable economic operators to be included in them at any time. (4) The qualification system may cover different stages related to the preliminary selection. (5) When setting up the qualification system, sectoral contracting entities shall lay down rules and criteria on the basis of which stakeholders will be included and excluded from the qualification system, including on the periodic update of information, if any, and on the duration of the qualification system. (6) Where these criteria and rules include technical specifications, art. 48-52. In such cases, contracting entities may update the criteria and rules if necessary. (7) Interested parties may, for the purposes of entry into the qualification system, refer to the capacity of third parties, irrespective of the legal relationship between them, with regard to the criteria relating to the economic and financial situation, professional and technical capabilities, in the event that the contracting entity has put them in place. (8) Sectoral contracting entities shall at all times provide access to the criteria and rules under para. 5, including at the request of the interested parties. (9) Where a sectoral contracting entity considers that a qualification system established by another person meets its requirements, it shall inform the interested parties accordingly that it will benefit from that qualification system. (10) Qualification systems shall be organised in such a way as to ensure the use and storage of information in respect of the business operators involved. The information may be grouped by categories according to the type of orders for which the entry is valid. (11) The contracting authority shall decide on the inclusion or refusal to include interested parties in the qualification system within 6 months of the submission of the application for inclusion in the qualification system. Refusal is motivated. (12) When for the decision under para. 11 more than 4 months are required, the contracting authority shall inform the person concerned within two months of the application for the reasons and the date by which a decision will be taken. (13) The decision under para. 11 shall be sent to the applicant within 15 days of its issue. (14) Sectoral contracting entity may decide to terminate participation in the candidate qualification system on the basis of the rules and criteria laid down in the establishment of the qualification system. The decision shall be sent to the applicant at least 15 days before the date fixed to terminate his participation in the qualification system. (15) In the event that contracting entities require fees to be included in the rating system for maintaining or updating information, they may not exceed the costs necessary for those activities. suppliing an order through a qualifying system. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 142: suppliing an order through a qualification system Art. 142. (1) Specific contracts for works, supplies or services covered by the qualification system shall be awarded by means of a restricted procedure or negotiated procedure with a prior invitation to participate and the contractor of the contract shall be selected among the persons entered in the qualification system. (2) Contracting entities shall indicate in the invitation to submit tenders or to participate in negotiations the criteria for the award of the contract if they are not included in the notice establishing the qualification system and whether: 1. tenders are required to be submitted in the form of an electronic catalogue or to include an electronic catalogue; 2. an electronic auction is envisaged when determining the contractor; 3. tenders may be submitted for one, for several or for all lots; 4. there is a restriction on the number of lots assigned to one contractor. (3) Access to the documentation shall be granted no later than the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender or to participate in the negotiations. The notice or invitation shall indicate the internet address at which the procurement documents are accessible. (4) By publishing the notice establishing the qualification system, sectoral contracting entities may disclose the award of the first contract within the system. "Confidence in the rating system." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 143. "Department IV " Candidates and participants. " The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. "Emissions and selection criteria." There are proposals from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 144 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 words can be identified and replaced by....................................................................................................................... 2. In para. 2 words can be saved. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 144: "Emissions and selection criteria' Art. 144. (1) Sectoral contracting entities may establish objective rules and criteria for the exclusion and selection of the participants or candidates they provide to the interested parties. (2) The rules and criteria under para. 1 may include the grounds for removal under art. 54, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 55, para. 1 as well as the selection criteria referred to in Article 1. 59, para. 1 subject to the relevant conditions for placing, declaring and proving them. (3) Public contracting entities carrying out sectoral activities shall apply the grounds for exclusion under art. 54, para. 1 and may apply the grounds for removal under art. 55, para. 1. (4) When selecting candidates in a restricted procedure or in a negotiated procedure with a prior invitation to participate, the contracting entity shall not: 1. impose on an applicant conditions of an administrative, technical or financial nature which do not apply to other candidates; 2. to require checks or evidence that repeat evidence already submitted by the applicant. (5) In the case of a restricted procedure, a negotiated procedure with a prior invitation to participate, competitive dialogue or innovation partnership, the contracting entity may establish objective and non-discriminatory rules and criteria to apply to reduce the number of candidates to be invited to submit tenders or to participate in the negotiations. The number of invited candidates should be sufficient to ensure real competition. (6) For outstanding questions concerning reduction of the number of candidates the provision of art. 105. "Presentation of technical specifications for regular contracts and contracts for which a periodic call to participate in a procedure shall be used.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 145. Offers involving products originating in third countries. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 146. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 147: Subsidiary application Art. 147. The provisions of Part One and Part Two shall apply to the issues not addressed in this Part.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u55	That's it. Colleagues, are there any statements on the reported texts? I won't. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev for amendment in art. 144. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 9 against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Section II with a changed name on the report of the Commission, art. 140; Section III, supported by an importer with art. Art. 141, Art. 142, art. 143; Section IV. "Candidates and participants', by importer, supported by the Commission, art. 144 and Articles 145 and 146 by importer, supported by the Commission; and the new member, on a proposal from the Commission We vote, fellow Members. Vote 81 MPs: 74, no objection, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, we're about to make a break at 12:00. We'll continue at 12:00. I ask for your correctness to be here because there is a second reading going on, let's not start with a name check. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u56	The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. And I'm doing this with the sound signal. We're listening to you. Part Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u57	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Part Four. ? Chapter 18??????????????????? The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 17 which becomes Chapter 18. Art. 147.................................................................................. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 147, which becomes Art. 148: suppression Art. 148. (1) The provisions of this Part shall apply to the award of public contracts for: 1. supplies of military equipment, including parts, components and/or mounting elements for it, as well as equipment included in the list of defence-related products adopted on the basis of art. 2, para. 1 of the Law on export control of defence products and dual-use products; 2. supplies of sensitive equipment, including parts, components and/or fittings thereof; 3. services directly related to the equipment under point 3. 1 and 2 including, for each element of its life cycle; 4. construction directly related to the equipment under point 4. 1 and 2 including, for each element of its life cycle; 5. services for specific military purposes or for sensitive services; 6. construction for specific military purposes or for sensitive construction. (2) The rules for public entities shall apply to the issues not settled in this Part. Art. One hundred and eighty-six. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 148, which becomes 149: "Exhibitions" Art. 149. (1) The law shall not apply to contracts in the fields of defence and security: "1." awarded under specific procedural rules: (a) under international agreements or contracts concluded subject to the provisions of the TFEU between the Republic of Bulgaria, of the one part, and one or more third countries, of the other part; (b) to an international organisation purchasing for its own purposes or for contracts to be awarded in accordance with those rules; 2. the award of which is related to the provision of information whose disclosure is contrary to the main interests of the security of the country, according to art. 346 TFEU; 3. entrusted for the purposes of intelligence activities; 4. awarded in the framework of a cooperation programme based on research and development carried out jointly by at least two Member States for the development of a new product and, where applicable, at the later stages for the whole or parts of the life cycle of that product; 5. awarded in a third country where operational needs require contracts to be concluded with contractors located in the area of operations, including for civil contracts carried out in the event of deployment of forces outside the territory of the European Union; 6. awarded by the Council of Ministers to another government relating to: (a) the supply of military equipment or sensitive equipment; or (b) works and services directly related to the equipment referred to in point (c) construction and services for specific military purposes or sensitive works and sensitive services; 7. for financial services except insurance services; 8. entrusted to undertakings of a Member State or to a third party in accordance with an international agreement or contract relating to the deployment of troops; 9. for arbitration and conciliation services; 10. in the case of employment in accordance with the meaning of § 1, t. 26 of the additional provisions of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals; 11. for research and development services where the contracting entity fully pays the service, but its benefits do not remain exclusively for the contracting entity when carrying out its activities; 12. when acquiring or hiring, whatever the financial means, land, existing buildings or other real estate or rights thereto; 13. awarded by a public entity, including when performing a sectoral activity, to a legal person if the following conditions are met at the same time: (a) the contracting entity shall exercise control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units; (b) more than 80 percent of the activity of the legal person is formed by the implementation of activities entrusted by the contracting entity or by its separate bodies or by other legal entities controlled by the contracting entity; (c) in the contractor legal person, no direct private capital participation, except one which is not related to control or blocking powers and which does not have a decisive influence on the activities of the legal person. (2) After the end of the programme under para. 1, t. 4 The participant from the Bulgarian country shall inform the European Commission of the share of research and development expenditure in relation to the total costs of the cooperation programme, the cost sharing agreement, as well as the expected share of the purchases of the Member State, if any. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 13 (a) The contracting authority shall exercise control over the legal person similar to that which exercises control over its own structural units where it has a decisive influence on the strategic objectives and significant decisions of that legal person. Such control may also be exercised by another legal person controlled in the same way by the contracting entity. (4) The methodology for determining the price of the contracts under para. 1, t. 13 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 13 When determining the percentage of activity, the average total turnover or other appropriate indicator shall be taken into account, which shall measure the performance of the activity over the last three years. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 13, where, due to the date of establishment or the start of the business of the legal person or the reorganization of its activity, there is no record of turnover or where that data is no longer relevant, it is sufficient to demonstrate that the method of measuring the activity is reliable, in particular through its business programme. (7) Where any of the conditions necessary for the conclusion of a contract under para. 1, t. 13, the contract shall be terminated by the law of a new contract with the same subject matter. In that case, the contracting authority shall open the award of the new contract within one month of the withdrawal of the relevant condition. (8) Contracting entities shall not refer to the exceptions under para. 1 in order to circumvent the law. (9) The criteria and order for determining the existence of fundamental interests under para. 1, t. 2 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 13, para. 2. Art. 149 - Mixed procurement involving activities in the fields of defence and security. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 149, which becomes art. 150: "Communications involving activities in defence and security areas Art. 150. (1) Where the subject-matter of the contract contains several activities, part of which is subject to the provisions of this Part and other.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Where the contracting authority decides to award separate contracts for individual activities, the rules applicable to the activity concerned shall be followed. (2) Where one of the activities of the subject-matter of the contract is subject to the provisions of this Part and another activity is outside the scope of the law, including in cases under art. 346 TFEU and, for objective reasons, the award of a general contract is justified, the law does not apply to that contract. (3) The law shall not apply to public contracts whose object contains objectively indivisible parts, some of which fall within the scope of art. 346 TFEU and the provisions of that part shall apply to others. (4) No decision to award a general contract shall be taken for the purpose of applying this part or excluding the contract from the scope of the law. Article 150 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 150, which becomes art. 151: "Communised service contracts" Art. 151. A public contract which includes both Annex 14 and Annex 15 services shall be awarded in accordance with the order laid down for services whose estimated value is higher. Article 151 "Securities and framework agreements awarded by central purchasing bodies'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 151, which becomes Art. 152: supposed via central purchasing bodies Art. 152. (1) Contracting entities may receive supplies or services from or through a central purchasing body, including where it is a European public authority which is not a contracting entity and carries out centralised purchasing activities. (2) Where contracting entities receive supplies or services under the order of para. 1 shall be deemed to have complied with the provisions of the law if: 1. the central purchasing body has also complied with the provisions of this Part and, where it is a European public authority which is not a contracting entity, the rules equivalent to those laid down in the Act; 2. an opportunity for appeal is provided. (3) The central authority and the contracting entity shall be responsible for the legality of the procedure they conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u58	That's it. Colleagues, are there any statements under Chapter 17 of Part IV that becomes Chapter 18? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Part IV, Chapter 18, with texts of art. 147 to 151 by importer, which are respectively numbered by art. 148 to 152 including, in their version of the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 76, none, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u59	Chapter 18 "Publicity and transparency." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 18, which becomes Chapter 19th. Article 152 "Preliminarily informative'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 152, which becomes Art. 153: "Preliminarily informative notice" Art. 153. (1) Contracting entities may disclose their intentions to award public contracts or to conclude framework agreements over the next 12 months by publishing a prior information notice. (2) Contracting entities shall be obliged to send the notice under para. 1 only when they intend to shorten the time limits for receipt of tenders. Article 153 The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 153, which becomes Art. 154. Article 154 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 154, which becomes Art. 155: "Administrative notice Art. 155. (1) Contracting entities shall send for publication a contract award notice within: 1. thirty days after the conclusion of a contract or framework agreement; 2. seven days from the entry into force of the decision to terminate the procedure. (2) In the case of contracts awarded on the basis of a framework agreement, contracting entities shall publish summary information on contracts concluded within 30 days of the end of each quarter. (3) Information from the notice under para. 1, the disclosure of which is contrary to a law, including in the field of defence and security, as well as that in respect of which the participants have invoked confidentiality in relation to the existence of commercial secrecy, is not published in the Article 155 "Instruction, form and method of publishing'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 155, which becomes Art. 156: Place, form and manner of publication of notices Art. 156. (1) Contracting entities shall send for publication in the Official Journal of the European Union: 1. prior informative notices; 2. the public procurement notices; 3. a notice of amendment or additional information; 4. a contract award notice; 5. Notices of voluntary transparency, where applicable. (2) The notices under para. 1, t. 1, 2, 4 and 5 shall be drawn up on samples validated by an act of the European Commission and shall contain at least the information set out in Annex 16, depending on the stage of the procedure. Notices shall be sent for publication by electronic means. (3) The notices under para. 1 shall be published in the ROC under the terms and conditions of art. 36. Chapter Nineteen. "Requirements to candidates and participants." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 19 which becomes Chapter 20. Article 156 Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: "1." Article 156 acquires the following version: The Participant shall remove from participation in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant where: 1. is sentenced with an effective sentence, unless rehabilitated, for: 2. points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 become points (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) respectively; 3. in point (c), after the word "codex', the expression " (s) as well as crimes against the labour rights of the citizens under art. 172 of the Criminal Code. 4. the following new points are added: s) a crime against the political rights of citizens under art. 167, para. 1, para. 2, para. 3 and para. 4; (j) a criminal offence against intellectual property under art. Article 172a 172b; (k) crime against creditors within the meaning of art. Art. 227b, Art. Art. 227c, Art. Art. 227d, Art. Art. 227d. 227f of the Penal Code; (l) crime against the customs procedure under art. Art. 242, Art. 242 242 5. The texts of t. 2, p. 5 and so on. 6 of para. 2 becomes ct, respectively. 2, p. 3 et c. 4 of this subparagraph; 6. create new t. 5, t. 6 and so on. 7 containing the following: It's five o'clock. there are obligations within the meaning of art. 245, para. 1 of the Labour Code to employees employed by it; 6. there is an effective judgment that, in the performance of a contract for a public contract, according to art. 3, para. No contractual payment has been made to a sub-contractor as required by Article 1. 66, para. 1; 7. in the course of their commercial activity; the applicant or participant has failed to comply with applicable obligations in the field of labour and social security legislation in force, including under working conditions, established by a declaration or acts of the authorities of the General Labour Inspection. 7. In para. 2 of art. 156 t. 2, p. 5 and so on. 6 drop out, like the rest of the item. 3 et c. 4 shall be renumbered in item 4 respectively. 2 et c. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 156, which becomes Art. 157: supposes to be removed Art. 157. (1) The contracting entity shall remove from participating in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant: 1. who has been convicted by a valid sentence, unless he has been rehabilitated, for a crime under art. Art. 108a, Art. Art. 159a-1959, Art. Art. 192a, Art. Art. 194-217, Art. Art. 219-252, Art. Art. 253-260, Art. Article 301-307, 321 and 321a of the Criminal Code; 2. who has been convicted by an effective sentence, unless he has been rehabilitated, for a crime similar to those under point 2. 1 in another Member State or third country; 3. for whom there is a conflict of interest which cannot be removed. (2) The contracting entity may remove from participating in a procurement procedure a candidate or participant for which any of the following circumstances exist: 1. has been declared bankrupt or in insolvency or liquidation proceedings or has concluded an out-of-court agreement with its creditors within the meaning of art. 740 of the Commercial Act, or has ceased its activity, and in the event that the applicant or participant is a foreign person,.. is in a similar situation resulting from a similar procedure under the law of the State in which it is established; 2. there are obligations for taxes and compulsory social contributions within the meaning of art. 162, para. 2, p. 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code and interest on them, to the State or to the municipality at the headquarters of the contracting entity and of the applicant or participant, or similar obligations established by an act of a competent authority, under the law of the State in which the applicant or participant is established, unless the deferral, deferral or guarantee of the obligations or obligation is granted is subject to an act which has not entered into force; 3. he is deprived of the right to pursue a particular profession or activity under the law of the State in which the infringement took place, including for infringements relating to the export of products in the field of defence and security; 4. a judgment in force found to be guilty of failure to comply with obligations under a contract, including with regard to the security of information and security of supply; 5. It has been found that it has submitted a false document relating to the verification of the absence of grounds for exclusion or of the fulfilment of the selection criteria; 6. It has been established by the security services within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, on the basis of any evidence, including intelligence, that it does not possess the necessary reliability, therefore there is a risk of a threat to national security. (3) The contracting authority shall indicate the circumstances under para. 2 in the contract notice and in the case of procedures under art. 18, para. 1, t. 10 in the invitation to participate in the negotiations. (4) The grounds under para. 1 and para. 2, p. 5 shall apply to persons representing the participant or the applicant, members of management and supervisory bodies and other persons having the power to exercise control over the decision-making of those bodies. (5) In the case of participation in a procedure, the applicant or participant shall provide a declaration of the absence of grounds for exclusion. (6) To demonstrate the absence of grounds for exclusion, the participant selected as contractor shall provide: 1. for the circumstances under para. 1, t. 1 "Criminality Certificate'; 2. for the circumstances under para. 2, p. 1 The certificate issued by the Registry Agency; 3. for the fact of para. 2, p. 2 A certificate from the revenue authorities and a certificate from the municipality at the headquarters of the contracting authority and of the applicant or participant; (7) The contracting authority shall not require the presentation of the documents under para. 6 where the circumstances therein are accessible through a public free register or information, or access to it shall be made available by the competent authority of the contracting entity by official means. (8) When applying the grounds for removal under para. 1 and 2 may not apply the measures to demonstrate reliability under art. 56..................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 157, which becomes art. 158: "Selection criteria' Art. 158. (1) In determining and proving the selection criteria shall apply art. Art. 59-62 65. (2) For proof of technical and/or professional abilities other than the requirements of art. 63 and the evidence referred to in Article 63. 64 the contracting entity may lay down additional conditions and require candidates or participants to submit: 1. a description of the technical equipment and quality assurance measures, testing and testing equipment, as well as the internal rules of the participant in relation to intellectual property; 2. a description of the technical equipment, materials, means, number of employees and know-how and/or sources of supply with an indication of the geographical location where it is outside the territory of the European Union available to the applicant for the performance of the contract to meet the possible increase in the needs of the contracting authority due to a crisis or to ensure maintenance, modernisation or adaptation of supplies covered by the contract. 3. authorisation, certificate or confirmation of access to classified information within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act, including the possibility of processing, storage and transmission of such information at the level of protection required by the Contracting Party in the case of orders containing or requiring classified information. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 64, para. 1, t. 2 the list should cover the last 5 years from the date of application. (4) The contracting authority may determine, within the notice, an additional period within which persons who do not hold an authorisation, certificate or confirmation under para. 2, p. 3, provide the relevant document. Within the time limit for receiving requests for participation, persons shall submit written consent to the contracting authority for carrying out a research procedure and shall apply the necessary documents under the Classified Information Protection Act to be sent by the contracting authority to the competent security service. (5) Contracting entities shall recognise permissions to access classified information issued in accordance with the legislation of the Member State in which the applicant or participant is established, in the event of an international contract or bilateral agreement for the protection of classified information to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. Under the terms and conditions of the Classified Information Protection Act, the contracting authority may request further studies in the Member State concerned. (6) Under the terms of the Classified Information Protection Act, the procuring entity may request the national security authority in the country in which the applicant is established to verify the compliance of the premises or installations which would possibly be used, the production and administrative procedures to be followed, the methods for managing the information and/or the status of staff that may be employed for the performance of the contract. (7) In the case of participation in a procedure, the applicant or participant shall provide evidence of compliance with the selection criteria set by the contracting entity. (8) Where, for good reason, the applicant or participant is unable to provide the documents requested by the contracting authority to demonstrate the technical and/or professional capabilities, it may prove them by any other document which the contracting entity considers appropriate. This possibility does not apply to the documents under para. 2, p. 3. "Chapter 20." Ordering. Amendment of a contract. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty, which becomes Chapter Twenty-First. Under art. 158 "Study specifications".. a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 158, which becomes art. 159: Each Member State shall inform the other Member States and the Art. 159. (1) The contracting entity shall determine the technical specifications in any of the ways referred to in art. 48, para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4, or by reference in the following order to: 1. Bulgarian standards which introduce European standards; 2. European technical assessments; 3. common technical specifications; 4. Bulgarian standards which introduce international standards; 5. international standards; 6. other technical benchmarks established by European standardisation bodies, or where there are none, by national standards, national technical approvals or national technical specifications relating to the design, method of calculation and execution of construction, and to the use of goods; 7. technical specifications created and widely accepted by the industry; 8. national standards in the field of defence and similar specifications for equipment and supplies in the field of defence. (2) When determining the technical specifications the requirements of art. 48, para. 2-6. Under art. 159 "Selecting of procedures" a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 159, which becomes Art. 160: "Free selection of procedure" Art. 160. When awarding public contracts under this Part, contracting entities shall choose a freely restricted procedure and negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 160, which becomes art. 161: supplied procedure Art. 161. (1) Any person may apply for participation in a limited procedure in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) In a restricted procedure, tenders shall submit only candidates which the contracting authority has invited after preliminary selection. Under art. 161 "Negotiation with the publication of the advocacy " - a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 161, which becomes Art. 162: supplier procedure with publication of a contract notice Art. 162. (1) When conducting a negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice, the contracting entity shall apply art. 76, para. 1, 2, 4, 7, 10-16. (2) The contracting authority may provide for the possibility for the negotiations to take place at successive stages in order to reduce the number of tenders in question by applying the award criterion. This option shall be specified in the contract notice or in the documentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u60	That's it. Dear colleagues, the debate has been opened on Chapter 18, which becomes Chapter Nineteenth. Mr. Metodi Andreev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u61	Madam President, honourable Members! This is my last offer. [[Laughter, excitement and single applause by GERB.]] I've had enough of reading the Bill. What do I suggest? I'll pay attention to art. 156, para. 1. This is about public procurement in the sector of Defence and National Security. This is not about public procurement in the civil sector. What are we saying with what is currently rejected as a proposal from me? We say that in these criteria, which can lead to the removal of a company from participation in a public procurement contract, for example, it will not matter whether the company that appears is a stolen licence because it is one of the proposals. If the company has a conviction that it owns foreign intellectual property and works with it, we say: "No problem. There are many cases in the defence and security sector, especially in the so-called military factories. Most of the private military factories work with intellectual property, which is state-owned, and appear on public procurement by competing state-owned companies. That's what people in this sector know. And we are now saying, "No problem, appear, compete with the state enterprises." What else are we saying? We say there will be no problem if the company involved in a public procurement contract caught her in a customs crime under art. 242 and 242a. That is, we say, "No problem, participate in smuggling, no problem, you can appear at public procurement ads. " Then we say, if, for example, the company is condemned that the applicant has failed to comply with applicable obligations in the field of current labour security legislation, it can appear in a public procurement. Many of the incidents that have occurred are precisely due to violations of labour law. That is what we say by not accepting the proposals I have made under art. 156, para. 1. I pay attention to what is happening and what we say to the Bulgarian business, which deals with the sector of Defence and Security. We're making him appear, violating these important members of the Penal Code. These members of the Penal Code are not available as a condition that those companies who have convictions on them do not appear on the relevant public procurement. That is what we are saying, and I therefore call on you to support this proposal of mine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u62	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mr. Metodi Andreev's proposals for editorial of art. 156 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 17 against 15 abstentioned 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Chapter 18, which becomes Chapter 19, Articles 152 to 161, respectively, by importer, which become Articles 153 to 162, together with their names, the name and Chapter 19, which becomes Chapter 20 and Chapter 20, which becomes Chapter 21. Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 86 MPs: 80, against 4, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u63	Under art. 162 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 162, which becomes Art. 163: "Competitive dialogue" Art. 163. (1) The contracting authority may choose the competitive dialogue procedure where the contract is particularly complex, therefore it is impossible to award it by using a restricted procedure or negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice. (2) Public procurement is particularly complex where, for objective reasons, the contracting entity cannot determine: 1. the technical specifications, and/or 2. the financial or legal framework of the order. (3) In the event of a competitive dialogue, the contracting authority shall apply art. 77, ) (a.k.a. 1, 2, 4-14. ? Negotiation without Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 163, which becomes Art. 164: "Negotiation procedure without publication of a contract notice Art. 164. (1) Contracting entities shall decide on procurement through a negotiated procedure without publication of a contract notice in the following cases: 1. in the case of the restricted procedure, the competitive dialogue or the negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice, no tenders or requests for participation have been submitted or the tenders submitted or applications submitted are inappropriate and the initially announced terms of the contract have not been substantially altered; 2. where all participants are invited, whose tenders in a prior restricted procedure, competitive dialogue or negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice meet the requirements of the contracting entity, but exceed its financial resource and the initially announced terms of the contract, are not substantially altered; 3. where urgent action is needed in the event of a crisis and the time limits for the conduct of a restricted procedure or of a negotiated procedure with the publication of a notice, including the reduced time limits, and in the cases referred to in art. 173, para. 1, t. point 2 (d) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (iii) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v (v) (v (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 4. where urgent award of the contract is necessary due to exceptional circumstances and it is not possible to comply with the time limits, including the time limits, for a limited procedure or negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice; the circumstances justifying urgency shall not be due to the contracting authority; 5. for technical reasons or for reasons relating to the protection of exclusive rights, the contract may be awarded only to a particular contractor; 6. the contract is subject to research or development services, except in the cases referred to in art. 149, para. 1, t. 4 and 11; 7. goods subject to delivery shall be produced for research, experimentation, scientific or development purposes and shall be in quantities which do not allow sufficient market realization or to cover the costs of research and development; 8. where additional supplies of goods from the same supplier are required for partial replacement or addition of available supplies or facilities and the replacement of the supplier leads to incompatibility or substantial technical difficulties in operation and maintenance due to the acquisition of goods with different technical characteristics; 9. the subject of the order is the supply of goods traded on a commodity exchange according to the list under art. 79, para. 1, t. 7); 10. favourable conditions arise over a short period for the supply of goods at prices lower than market prices, including when selling the property of commercial companies declared in liquidation or insolvency; 11. Due to unforeseen circumstances it is necessary to award an additional service or construction to the same contractor under the following conditions: (a) the additional service or construction cannot be technically or economically separated from the subject matter of the basic contract without significant difficulties for the contracting entity or, although they may be separated, are essential for the performance of the contract; (b) the total value of contracts with which additional services or works are awarded shall not be more than 50 per cent of the value of the basic contract; 12. where a repetition of a service or construction by the same contractor is required under the following conditions: (a) the initial contract has been awarded in a restricted procedure or negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice or competitive dialogue and the notice of the contract indicates the possibility of such award; (b) the total value of the new contract is included and indicated when determining the value of the original contract; (c) the new contract corresponds to the basic project to which the original contract was awarded; 13. the subject-matter of the contract is related to the provision of air and maritime transport services to the armed forces or to the security forces of the Party which are located or are to be located outside its territory, where the contracting entity is to provide those services by contractors whose tenders are valid only for such short periods that the time limit for the conduct of the restricted procedure or the negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice, including the reduced period, cannot be complied with; 14. The order is for services included in Annex No 15. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 8 contracts may not be longer than 5 years. In exceptional circumstances, a longer period may be determined where this is required by circumstances relating to the expected service life of available items, facilities or systems and technical difficulties that may cause the change of performer. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 9 contracts shall be concluded under the rules of the relevant exchange. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 10 Contracts shall be concluded in accordance with Part Three of the Commercial Law. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 12 the procedure may be opened no later than 5 years from the award of the first contract, unless, exceptionally, it is necessary to carry out the procedure after that period due to circumstances relating to the expected service life of the available items, facilities or systems and technical difficulties which may cause the change of contractor. (6) By the decision initiating the procedure, the contracting authority shall motivate the applicable basis under para. 1. (7) The terms and procedures of the procedure shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Article 164 Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 164, para. 4 the texts which require an urgent award of a contract The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 164, which becomes Art. 165: Dates for the conduct of the procedures Art. 165. (1) The minimum period for receipt of applications for participation in a restricted procedure, a negotiated procedure with publication of a contract notice and a competitive dialogue shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (2) The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders under a restricted procedure shall be 35 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. Where unlimited, complete, free and direct access is not granted by electronic means to the procurement documents, the time limit shall be 40 days. (3) The time limits under para. 2 may be reduced by 4 days when the contracting authority has published a prior information notice and it: 1. has been sent for publication between 52 days and 12 months before the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication, and 2. shall include all information referred to in Part A of Annex No 16. (4) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the time limits under para. 1 and 2, contracting entities may determine: 1. a time limit for receipt of requests for participation - not less than 15 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication; 2. a time-limit for receipt of tenders at least 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. (5) In the contract notice, the contracting entity shall motivate the application of para. 4. Article 165 "Reducing the number of candidates, tenders or decisions'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 165, which becomes art. 166: "Decreasing the number of candidates, tenders or decisions Art. 166. (1) Where, in the case of a restricted procedure, a negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice and a competitive dialogue, the contracting entity shall use the possibility of reducing the number of candidates, the minimum number of candidates it intends to invite shall not be less than three. (2) Where, after pre-selection, the contracting authority finds that the number of candidates meeting the selection criteria and minimum requirements is not sufficient to ensure real competition, it may: 1. to publish again the original notice and repeat the selection phase for the new applications, or 2. terminate the procedure. (3) In the cases under para. 2 The contracting entity invites candidates selected after the first and second publication to submit tenders. Article 166 "Invitations to applicants'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 166, which becomes Art. 167: Invitations to candidates Art. 167. (1) In the case of a restricted procedure, competitive dialogue and negotiated procedure with the publication of a contract notice, the contracting entity shall send simultaneously written invitations to the selected candidates for submission of a tender or for participation in negotiations or dialogue. (2) The invitations shall contain at least the information set out in Annex No 17. (3) Where the documentation or parts thereof are located with a person other than the contracting entity, the invitation shall indicate the address from which it can be obtained. In the event that the documentation is not accessed by electronic means, the invitation shall also indicate the final date for the request for receipt of the documents. Where the request has been sent within the specified time limit, the competent authorities shall send the documents without delay. Article 167 "Salvation of a contract for public procurement and a framework agreement'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 167, which becomes Art. 168. "Chapter twenty-first" e-and-co-orders. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter twenty-first, which becomes Chapter twenty-second, be amended as follows: "Chapters Twenty-Two." Specific techniques and procurement instruments. Article 168.................................................................................................... The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 168, which becomes art. 169: ....................................... Art. 169. (1) When the contracting entity concludes a framework agreement with several persons, the number may not be less than three, provided that there is a sufficient number of potential contractors meeting the selection criteria and/or a sufficient number of tenders meeting the previously announced conditions of the contracting entity. (2) Framework agreements shall be concluded for a period not exceeding 7 years. (3) By way of exception, the term under para. 2 may be longer when, given the expected service life of the delivered goods, facilities or systems, the change of the contractor may cause technical difficulties. The contracting authority shall state the reasons for this in the notice. (4) The provisions of Section I of Chapter 10a shall apply to outstanding matters concerning the conclusion of a framework agreement and the award of contracts on the basis of a framework agreement. Article 169 Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 169, which becomes Art. 170: E-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: e-mail: Art. 170. (1) Contracting entities may conduct an electronic auction in the award of a contract by means of a restricted procedure or negotiated procedure with the prior publication of a contract notice, as well as in the conduct of an internal competitive choice on the basis of a framework agreement where the technical specifications of the contract can be precisely defined. (2) The use of an electronic auction shall be indicated in the contract notice. (3) The provisions of Section III of Chapter 10a shall apply to outstanding issues concerning the conduct of an electronic auction.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u64	Colleagues, speeches? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u65	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to note to my colleagues that in art. 162, para. 1, in the last sentence, I think it is good to add the words to national security and because if, in this article, we do not allow public procurements that concern national security, to enter this regime, there is a danger that we will fall into the situation of February 2015, colleagues, when, for one week, we had to produce a text, a change in the Public Procurement Act, in order to enable the construction of the security facility, known more as the South Border Building. That is why I am proposing, dear Madam President, in art. 162, para. 1 in the last sentence after the word "complex," to add "national security" or "national security."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u66	Then the sentence is: "The Entrepreneur can choose the competitive dialogue procedure when the order is particularly complex, it is about national security or it is therefore impossible to award it.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u67	That's right, just add it to national security. There's nothing scary, nothing bad, we're going to help protect our national security more seriously and in this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u68	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for an editorial supplement in art. 162 by importer, which becomes art. 163, para. One, as he recorded it in the transcript. Vote 79 MPs: 20, against 13, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Grozdan Karadjov's proposal, not supported by the Commission, for changes to art. 164, para. 4 by importer. Vote 81 MPs: for 7, against 17, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting for members with the number from 162 by importer to 169 by importer, which become respectively members with numbers from 163 to 169, and the name of Chapter twenty-first, which becomes Chapter twenty-second. We vote on the reported texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u69	Vote 79 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 3. The texts have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u70	"Chapter twenty-two, Security of Information and Supply." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-Second, which becomes Chapter Twenty-third. Order execution conditions. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 170, which becomes Art. 171. Special requirements for the execution of the order. Art. 171. Contracting entities may provide for specific requirements for the performance of the contract relating to the award of subcontractors or those aimed at ensuring the protection of classified information and/or security of supply. "Requirements for the protection of classified information." Proposal by the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs under art. 171. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 171, which becomes Art. 172: "Requirements for the Protection of Classified Information" Art. 172. (1) Contracting entities shall indicate in the notice whether the contract contains or requires classified information. In this case, in the documentation provided with the invitation to participate, the contracting authority shall set to the participants and their subcontractors requirements in order to protect classified information. (2) In the cases under para. 1 the contracting entity may: 1. require permission, certificate or confirmation of access to classified information within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act, including the possibility of processing, storage and transmission of such information at the level of protection required by the contracting entity; 2. to request the submission of authorisation, certificate or confirmation of access to classified information within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information on Selected Sub-contractors; 3. to include in the draft contract clauses which the contractor undertakes: (a) present the document under point (a) 2 for subcontractors selected during the performance of the contract; (b) to safeguard the classified information which became known to him during the procedure during and after the execution of the contract; (c) the subcontractors selected before and during the execution of the contract shall include clauses referred to in point (b) for the protection of classified information. (3) When providing the technical specifications to candidates or participants in the procedures and when concluding the contract, the contracting entity may set requirements for the protection of information of a confidential nature or of classified information. A procuring entity may require candidates or participants to ensure compliance with those requirements and their subcontractors. (4) Applicants or participants, including their subcontractors, shall not be entitled to disclose the information under para. 3. Security of supply. Under art. 172 has a proposal from the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 172, which becomes Art. 173: Security of supply Art. 173. (1) Where the contracting authority has included security of supply requirements in the notice, it may: 1. to request that the offer also contain: (a) licences or other appropriate documents issued in the Member State concerned demonstrating that the participant is able to fulfil obligations relating to the export, transfer or transit of goods relating to the contract; (b) an indication of any restrictions relating to the detection, transfer or use of goods and services or their results arising from export controls or from defence arrangements; (c) evidence that the organisation and arrangement of the participant's supply chain allow compliance with those requirements, as well as a declaration that possible changes in the supply chain during the execution of the contract will not adversely affect the performance of the contract; (d) any supporting documentation received from the national authorities of the participant on the fulfilment of additional needs required by the contracting authority arising from a crisis; 2. to include in the draft contract clauses which the contractor undertakes: (a) establish and/or maintain the capacity necessary to meet additional needs required by the contracting authority following a crisis, in accordance with agreed terms and conditions; (b) to carry out maintenance, modernisation or adaptation of supplies covered by the contract; (c) notify the contracting authority without delay of any change occurring in its organisation, supply chain or industrial strategy which may affect the performance of the contract; (d) in the case of termination of proceedings, provide the contracting authority with all the special means necessary for the production of spare parts, components, fitting elements and special testing equipment, including technical drawings, licences and instructions for use, under conditions and in order agreed upon upon upon the occurrence of the relevant circumstance. (2) The contracting authority shall not set requirements for the participant which may conflict with the licensing criteria for the export, transfer or transit of the Member State concerned. "Chapter twenty-third" Rules on the selection of subcontractors. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-third, which shall become twenty-four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 173, which becomes Art. 174: Sub-contractors Art. 174. (1) In the contract notice, the contracting entity may determine a share of the contract to be executed by subcontractors by determining the minimum and maximum percentage of the value of the contract, but not more than 30 per cent. (2) In their offer, the participants may offer a share of the total value of the order, which exceeds the maximum size under para. 1 to be implemented by a sub-contractor. (3) In their tender, the participants shall indicate types of works from the subject-matter of the contract to be awarded to subcontractors and the corresponding proportion of the contract which may not be less than the minimum percentage determined by the contracting entity and the subcontractors which they have already determined. (4) Where a participant has determined with his offer one or more of the subcontractors with which he will conclude a sub-contract, he shall: 1. indicate in its offer the proposed subcontractors, the type of work to be carried out and the proportion of their participation; 2. provide documents demonstrating compliance with the requirements for the selection of each of them according to the type and proportion of their participation; 3. inform the contracting authority of any change of subcontractors which occurred during the performance of the contract. (5) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to impose restrictions based on the national ownership of subcontractors. Article 174 "Selection of subcontractors'. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 174 the following amendments are made: (a) paragraph 5 shall be created with the following text: A sub-contractor shall not be selected which does not meet the requirements of art. 54. (b) Paragraphs 5-7 become 6-8 respectively. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 174, which becomes Art. 175: "Selection of subcontractors" Art. 175. (1) Where the participant designated as a contractor is a contracting entity, he shall conclude the contracts for sub-contracting by means of a procedure carried out under the provisions of that part. (2) Where the participant designated as a contractor is not a contracting entity and must apply paragraphs 10 and 11, it shall draw up a notice in accordance with the relevant model containing at least the information set out in Annex No 18. (3) The notice under para. 2 shall be published in the Register of Public Procurement and in the Official Journal of the European Union, subject to art. 156, para. Two and three. (4) In the cases under para. 2 subcontractors shall be selected in compliance with the principles of transparency and competition. (5) The procuring entity shall have the right to reject subcontractors selected by the participant designated as a contractor in the event that they do not meet the selection criteria specified in the notice and documentation. The rejection of a sub-contractor shall take place by a reasoned decision to be sent to the participant designated as contractor. In this case, the participant designated as a contractor is obliged to re-apply the relevant line of selection of a sub-contractor. (6) Where a sub-contractor has not been selected, since none of the subcontractors involved in the procedure or the tenders proposed by them do not meet the criteria set out in the sub-contractor notice and this would prevent compliance with the requirements laid down in the basic contract: 1. the participant selected as a contractor who is not a contracting entity may: (a) to execute the contract itself if it proves that there is such an opportunity; or (b) conclude sub-contracts without compliance with the relevant award order if it proves that the selected persons meet the selection criteria; 2. the participant selected as a contractor who is a contracting entity may conduct a negotiated procedure without publication of a contract notice. (7) The decisions of the designated contractor related to the selection of a sub-contractor shall not be subject to appeal in cases where the participant designated as contractor is not a contracting entity. (8) The contracting entity may oblige the participant designated as a contractor to select subcontractors in accordance with paragraphs 1-4 for all or part of the activities proposed for sub-contracting if they are of value under art. 20, para. 1, t. 4. This requirement shall be indicated in the notice. (9) The contracting authority shall indicate in the decision determining the contractor which of the activities proposed for sub-contracting must be selected by the sub-contractors under para. 1-4. (10) When selecting a sub-contractor under para. 1-4 selection criteria specified by the contracting authority shall apply. The participant designated as a contractor may also define other criteria which comply with those specified by the contracting authority. (11) The selection criteria under para. 10 must be objective, non-discriminatory, relevant to the subject-matter of the sub-contract and proportionate to its volume.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the names of Chapter twenty-two and twenty-third by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become Chapter twenty-third and twenty-four respectively, as well as Articles 170 to 173 by importer, which shall take place in the Commission report, following its support, as Articles 171 Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 74, none, abstention 6. The name of Chapters twenty-third and twenty-four and Articles 171 to 174 on the Commission report have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: 10, against 8, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 174 by importer which is supported by the Commission in principle and after its amendment becomes art. 175 in her report. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. Article 175 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u72	Part 5 of the Rules on public procurement in the national market. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Part Five be amended as follows: Chapter Twenty-Fourth "Publishing competition." Direct negotiation. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Twenty-Four, which shall become the twenty-fifth. Section I of the Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following name of Section I of the General Positions. Article 175 "The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 175, which becomes Art. 176: suppression Art. 176. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the award of public contracts of value under art. 20, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the The Commission proposes to create a new art. 177 "Supreme implementation": Subsidiary application Art. 177. The provisions of Part 1 and 2 shall apply to the issues not addressed in this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u73	We vote on the texts of the importer, supported by the Commission, for the name of Part Five, Chapter Twenty-four, which becomes Chapter Twenty-Five, Section I, of the text generally supported by the importer and after version 175, which becomes art. 176, as well as the creation of a new art. 177 with its respective content, according to the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: 78, none, abstention 5. Part Five, Chapter Twenty-Five, Section I, Art. 175, which becomes Art. Art. 176, Art. 177 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u74	Section II "Publishing competition." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. "Publishing of.............................................................................................. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 176 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. A sentence second is added with the text: The notice shall be published in a specific section of the contracting authority's website and/or in at least one national daily, as well as on the public procurement agency's website. 2. In para. 2 the text shall begin to run from the day on which the publication notice is sent and shall be replaced by the date on which the request is published. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 176, which becomes art. 178: Publishing of a notice Art. 178. (1) For disclosure of a public competition procedure, the contracting entity shall publish a contract notice containing at least the information set out in Annex No 19. (2) In the notice under para. 1 The contracting entity shall set a time limit for receipt of tenders which must be consistent with the volume and complexity of the contract. The time limit may not be shorter than 21 days for service and supply contracts, but when the contract is for construction.. 28 days and starts from sending the notice of publication. (3) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the term under para. 2, the contracting entity may set a time limit for receipt of tenders not less than 10 days from the sending of the contract notice for publication. (4) In the contract notice, the contracting entity shall be obliged to motivate the application of para. 3. (5) The contracting authority shall not be obliged to justify in the notice the inability to divide separate items of a contract which is for supplies or services. "Change of the declared terms and conditions" art. 177. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments shall be made: 1. He's creating a new para. 1 with the text: s) Interested parties may make proposals for changes in the documents referred to in art. 100, para. 1 within the time limit laid down in art. 100, para. 2 to be dealt with by the contracting authority. 2. Alinea 1 becomes al. 2 and the words the term of up to 7 days shall be replaced by the term of up to 12 days. Alinea 2 is renumbered as para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Article 177, which becomes Art. 179: Change of the declared conditions Art. 179. (1) The contracting authority may make changes to the notice and/or the documentation of a contract on its own initiative or at the request of a person concerned within three days of the publication of the contract notice. The notice of amendment or additional information and the decision by which it is approved shall be sent for publication within 7 days of publication in the Register of Public Procurement of the contract notice and where the time limit is reduced under art. 178, para. 3 to 5 days. (2) Where the time limit for the submission of tenders is extended, the time necessary to reflect the explanations or changes in the preparation of tenders shall be taken into account. "Presentation of......................................................................................... 178. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, supported by the Commission. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 178, which becomes art. 180: "Provide clarification' Art. 180. (1) Upon written request for clarification of the terms of the contract, made up to 5 days in the case of supply contracts and/or services and in the case of art. 178, para. 3 and in the case of works contracts up to 7 days before the expiry of the time limit for receipt of tenders, the contracting authority shall publish written explanations in the buyer's profile. (2) Explanations shall be published on the buyer profile within three days of receipt of the request and shall not indicate the person making the request. "Definition of a contractor" "Art. 179. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 179, which becomes Art. 181: "Definition of a contractor" Art. 181. (1) To participate in the procedure, interested parties shall submit tenders to which they also apply information on the absence of grounds for exclusion and compliance with the selection criteria. (2) In carrying out the procedure, an assessment of the technical and price proposals of the participants shall be allowed before examination of the documents of compliance with the selection criteria, where that option is specified by the contracting authority in the notice. (3) In the cases under para. 2 verification of the existence of grounds for exclusion and compliance with the selection criteria shall be carried out in a manner that is not affected by the results of the assessment of technical and price proposals. (4) The commission appointed by the contracting authority shall draw up a protocol for the selection of participants, the examination, evaluation and classification of tenders. (5) The contracting authority shall validate the minutes under para. 4 in the row of art. 106. (6) Within 10 days of validation of the Protocol, the contracting authority shall issue a decision to appoint a contractor or to terminate the procedure. (7) On termination of the procedure shall apply the grounds under art. 110. (8) The decisions under para. 6 shall be sent on the same day to the participants and published in the buyer profile. "Department III" "Development III." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u75	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of Section II as proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The name of Section II is accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev under art. 176 by importer not accepted. They voted 75 MPs: for 6, against 33, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Another proposal of the National Representative Georgi Kadiev under art. 177 by importer, which is also not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: 15 against 33, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the texts for Articles 176 to 179, including by importer, which, following support from the Commission and the corresponding editorials, become Articles 178 to 181 on its report. We are voting from 178 to 181 on the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 5. Articles 178 to 181, including the Commission report, have been adopted. We vote on the name of Section III by importer, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 75 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 3. The name of Section III of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u76	Article 180 "Short negotiation with certain persons'. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 180, which becomes Art. 182: ? Direct negotiation with certain persons Art. 182. (1) The contracting entity may directly negotiate with certain persons in the presence of any of the grounds under art. 79, para. 1, t. 3 and 5 "9" or when: 1. urgent award of the contract is necessary due to exceptional circumstances and it is not possible to comply with the time limits under art. 178, para. Two and three. The circumstances justifying the existence of urgency must not be attributed to the contracting entity; 2. the public competition award procedure has been terminated since no tenders have been submitted or the tenders submitted are inappropriate and the conditions initially announced have not been substantially altered; 3. in a very short time, there is an opportunity to obtain supplies or services under particularly favourable conditions and at a price significantly lower than usual market prices; 4. a repetition of works or services entrusted by the same contracting entity to the original contractor shall be required, subject to the following conditions: (a) the original contract has been awarded with a public competition; (b) the notice of the original contract shall indicate the possibility of re-contracting as well as the volume or quantity of possible additional works or services and the conditions under which they will be awarded; (c) the total value of the new contract is included and indicated when determining the value of the original contract; (d) the new contract corresponds to the basic project to which the first contract was awarded; 5. the contract is for Annex 2 services and is worth under art. 20, para. 2, p. 2. (2) By the decision initiating the procedure, the contracting entity shall motivate the applicable basis under para. 1. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 all persons offering goods and services at prices lower than market prices are invited to the negotiations. (4) The reassignment of the works or services under para. 1, t. 4 is possible no later than three years after the conclusion of the original contract. (5) The terms and conditions of the direct negotiation shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. "Department IV." Contract and accountability. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Section IV be amended as follows: "Department IV " "A contract for public procurement". "Complete a contract for public procurement." Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 181, which becomes Art. 183: A contract shall be concluded between the Contracting Parties Art. 183. The contracting authority shall conclude with the designated contractor a written contract for a contract under the terms and conditions of art. 112. Article 182 "Change of contracts concluded'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 182, which becomes Art. 184: ? Change of contract? ♪ Change of contract ♪ Art. 184. (1) The contracting entity may amend a contract under the terms of art. 116. (2) In the cases referred to in art. 116, para. 1, t. 6 amendment of a contract is permissible provided that after the change the total value of the contract does not exceed the threshold values under art. 20, para. 2. "Publishing of information on contracts'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 183, which becomes Art. 185.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u77	We vote on the name of Section IV by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as articles from 180 to 183 by importer, which, following the Commission's support and editing of some of them, become 182 to 185, including on the Commission's report. Please vote. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] I'm sorry. Cancel the vote, there's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 182, para. 1, t. 1 Once again transfer and modify some gaps in law, in particular in laws. We are talking about the so-called exceptional circumstances. Nowhere in this Bill, or at least I didn't see anyone, if they saw, explain to me what was implied by "extreme circumstances" because on the basis of these exceptional circumstances there would be a direct negotiation with certain individuals. It can only be explained by the contracting authority what it is.. exceptional circumstances............................................................................................ Of course, this individually opens the doors to some interesting corruption schemes. That's why you're transferring it again, you're transposing it again, and in the old Law there was it, and now there's this text. That's why I wanted to take the floor and once again say that corruption practices are opening up here again. What is this extraordinary circumstance and who defines it when it is not defined by law and there is no legal definition here?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u79	- What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Popov, there is a definition of exceptional circumstances in the Additional Provisions of the Law. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 45 Such definitions shall be established and within the meaning of Paragraph 2 of the Additional Provisions such as paragraph 45. 17 is recorded: "Extreme circumstances' are the circumstances caused by unpredictable events to the contracting entity, such as natural disaster, accident or disaster, as well as others that damage, directly endanger or may result in a subsequent occurrence of a danger to life or health of persons, to the environment, to public order, to national security, to the defence of the country or may significantly impede or impair the normal performance of normal activities of the contracting entity. In this sense, I think it is incorrect to claim that the importer and the Commission have underestimated to specify the exceptional circumstances under this Law and this opens up some corrupt practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u81	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Atanasova, since it is so comprehensive and well described in the Transitional and Final Provisions what is an exceptional circumstance, why are you also explaining here that circumstances that are justified in the second sentence are justified by personal urgency should not be due to the contracting authority. Of course it shouldn't be due to the contracting authority. These are by chance actions, natural actions, as you described earlier. It shouldn't be due to the contracting authority. It is obvious that this provision is not clear and does not become clear with the Transitional and Final Provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of Section IV by importer, supported by the Commission, as well as Articles 182 to 185 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 71 against 6, abstention 3. The name of Section IV and Articles 182 to 185, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u84	Chapter Twenty-Five "Shoots" with an advert. An advert to certain persons. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter Twenty-Five, which becomes Chapter Twenty-Six, be amended as follows: "Chapter twenty-six" is an advert for the collection of offers. Invitation to certain "Observative" "Observative" "Observative" "Observative" The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 184, which becomes Art. 186: suppression Art. 186. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the award of public contracts of value under art. 20, para. 3. "Content and publication of the advert" art. 185. A proposal has been made by Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs in art. 185, para. 3 drop the words by other appropriate means. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 185, which becomes Art. 187: Publishing of an advert Art. 187. (1) Contractors shall open the award of a contract with value under art. 20, para. 3 with the publication of the buyer profile of an advert for the collection of tenders, which shall be drawn up in a template containing at least the information set out in Annex No 20. (2) Together with the notices, contracting entities shall publish the technical specifications and any other information relating to the performance of the contract, where applicable. (3) After publication of the buyer profile, contracting entities may publish the notice or short information about the order and in another appropriate way. (4) The contracting authority shall not be obliged to motivate in the advertisement the inability to divide separate positions of the contract. The term for receipt of tenders shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published There is a proposal from Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 186, which becomes Art. 188: Date of receipt of tenders Art. 188. (1) The time-limit for receipt of tenders shall be consistent with the volume and complexity of the contract and shall not be less than 7 days for services and supplies and, where the contract is for construction, 15 days from the publication of the notice. (2) The contracting entity shall extend the term under para. 1 with at least three days when less than three tenders have been received within the initial time limit. (3) After the expiry of the term under para. 2 The contracting entity shall examine and evaluate the tenders received regardless of their number. "Declarations" "Art. 187. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 187, which becomes Art. 189. "Conservation of orders when collecting offers with an advert........................................................................................... 188. There is a proposal from Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 188, which becomes art. 190: "Conservation of orders when collecting tenders with an advert Art. 190. (1) Contracting entities may apply the order under art. 187-189 and for contracts falling within the scope of the list under art. 12, para. 1, t. 1 and the value of which requires public procurement when the contract is maintained and awarded to specialised undertakings or cooperatives to disabled persons or to economic operators whose main purpose is the social and professional integration of disabled or disadvantaged persons. (2) In the cases under para. 1 The participant selected as a contractor must demonstrate that a minimum of 70 per cent of his staff consists of disabled or disadvantaged persons and that they will be engaged in the execution of the contract and that the conditions of art are met. 12, para. 6. (3) In the cases under para. 1 The contracting entity shall indicate in the advertisement that the contract is reserved for persons meeting the requirements of para. 1 and 2. "Invitation to certain persons".............................................................................. There is a proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 189, which becomes Art. 191: Invitation to certain persons Art. 191. (1) Contracting entities may not publish an advertisement but send an invitation to a particular person/person where any of the following grounds exists: 1. no offer has been received, including after an extension of the term under Art. 1. 188, para. 2 and the initial terms of the contract have not been changed; 2. the award of the contract to another person is impossible due to the existence of copyright or other intellectual property rights or exclusive rights acquired under a law or administrative act, and where the nature of the supply or service is limited to a specified contractor for reasons not due to the contracting entity; 3. urgent award of the contract is necessary due to exceptional circumstances and it is not possible to comply with the time limits under art. 188, para. 1. The circumstances justifying the existence of urgency must not be attributed to the contracting entity; 4. goods subject to delivery are produced for research, experimentation, research or development purposes and are in limited quantities which do not allow market price formation or reimbursement of costs for this activity; 5. additional supplies are required from the same supplier intended for partial replacement or increase of supplies if the change of supplier will force the contracting entity to acquire a commodity with different technical characteristics which will result in incompatibility or technical difficulties in operation and maintenance; 6. the subject of the order is the supply of a commodity which is traded on a commodity exchange according to a list approved by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance; 7. In a very short time, there is an opportunity to obtain supplies or services under particularly favourable conditions and at a price significantly lower than usual market prices. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 where tenders have been received from persons other than those mentioned in the invitation, the contracting authority shall examine them and rank them if they meet the declared conditions and comply with the published technical specifications. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 6 Contracting entities shall conclude the contract under the rules of the relevant exchange. Terms and order for the designation of the contractor............................................................................................. 190. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 190, which becomes Art. 192: "Definition of a contractor" Art. 192. The rules governing the submission, examination and evaluation of tenders and the designation of a contractor shall be laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. ? Withdrawal of the Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 191, which becomes Art. 193: Aborting the award of a public procurement contract Art. 193. The contracting authority may terminate the award of the contract until the conclusion of the contract for the award of the contract by publishing a message on the buyer profile indicating also the reasons for the termination. "Concluding of a contract" "Art. 192. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 192, which becomes Art. 194: "Concluding and amending a contract" Art. 194. (1) The contracting authority shall conclude a contract with the designated contractor within 30 days of the date of designation of the contractor. In cases referred to in art. 191, para. 1, t. 3 the contract shall be concluded no later than 5 working days from the date of designation of the contractor. (2) The contracting entity may enter into a contract with the next rated participant where the selected contractor refuses to enter into a contract or does not appear for its conclusion within the period specified by the contracting entity without indicating objective reasons. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 116, para. 1, t. 6 amendment of a contract is permissible provided that after the change the total value of the contract does not exceed the threshold values under art. 20, para. 3. "Private cases" "Primary cases" "Primary cases" "Primary cases" "Primary Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place as para. 3 of art. 191. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 193 to be rejected. ? Subsidical The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 194, which becomes Art. 195: Subsidiary application Art. 195. The first and second provisions of Part One shall apply to the issues not addressed in this Chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u85	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have very serious concerns about art. 191 and, more precisely, the proposal of colleague Kirilov, who directly proposes to surround the law so directly that it is fracking! In fact, this proposal states that the entity may terminate the procedure of its own accord to select an appropriate contractor with a direct invitation. So we run a procedure, apply one person, we don't like it, we end it as a contracting entity. We choose who does it, and we do it by bypassing the law. I do not know why the Commission has supported this proposal, but we must not support it in this House directly circumventing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u87	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter Twenty-Five by importer, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become Chapter Twenty-Six in its report, art. 184, which becomes Art. 186 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 75, against 12, abstention 6. The name of Chapter Twenty-Six and art. 186 on the Commission report have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Grozdan Karadjov under Article. 185 by importer not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 12, against 30, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer as members from 185 to 192, including those that take place in the Commission report, after support, from 187 to 194 inclusive. We are voting on the Commission's report from 187 to 194. Vote 92 MPs: 79, against 10, abstention 3. Articles 187 to 194 on the Commission report have been adopted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 193 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 77 against 7, abstention 4. The Commission's proposal has been adopted. Vote art. 194 by importer, supported by the Commission and becomes art. 195 in her report. Vote art. 195 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 70, against 5, abstention 8. Article 195 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u88	When will there be speeches? You, as you drove her...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u89	Do you distinguish between an importer member and a Commission member? When art. 195 by importer, I'll give you the floor as promised. Now to the long lines of art. 195 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u90	"Sixth "Remove violations of procedures. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Part Six. six and twenty-sixth appeal proceedings. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Twenty-Six, which becomes Chapter Twenty-Seven. "Department I.. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. "Acts subject to appeal" and "Art. 195. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 195, para. The Court of Justice of the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice is hereby replaced by a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 195, para. 2, p. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 195, para. 1 is created a new t. 5 with the text: It's five o'clock. award of a contract pursuant to art. Art. 185 192 by collecting offers with an advertisement. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 195, which becomes art. 196: "Acts subject to appeal' Art. 196. (1) Any decision of contracting entities under a procedure shall be subject to appeal under this Chapter: 1. procurement, including through the conclusion of a framework agreement, a dynamic purchasing system or qualification systems; 2. conclusion of a framework agreement; 3. creating a dynamic purchasing system or qualification systems; 4. Project competition. (2) The decisions on: 1. determining the contractor of the contract through an internal competitive choice where the total value of the contracts awarded under the framework agreement by the contracting entity concerned is lower than or equal to the value under art. 20, para. 3; 2. detection in the part concerning the reasons for the inability to divide the subject matter of the contract into lots. (3) The decisions under para. 1 shall be appealed to the Commission for the protection of competition concerning their legality, including the existence of discriminatory economic, financial, technical or qualification requirements in the notice, documentation or any other document relating to the procedure. (4) An appeal under the order of this Chapter shall also be subject to the decisions referred to in art. 175, para. 5. (5) An appeal under this Chapter shall also be subject to acts or omissions of the contracting authority which prevent the access or participation of persons in the procedure. The actions of the contracting authority in the issuing of the decisions under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u91	Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u92	Madam President, honourable Members, I take the floor to make an editorial proposal under art. 195, ) (a.k.a. 3 as regards the appeal before the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC). My proposal is that the appeal will no longer be carried out before this Commission, as did my colleague Nikiforov's proposal. I propose that this be before the competent Administrative Court at the applicant's permanent address or seat. That is, we should not overload the Supreme Administrative Court with an endless series of additional cases on which it will have to be ruled once again as a second instance, but do what has been spoken for a long time and which is the most natural thing to appeal before a judicial authority rather than a quasi-judicial body. The appeal to be before one of the 28 administrative courts in the country, which have the job and which have the capacity to do so, as was the meaning of administrative justice reform. The Supreme Administrative Court, as it is now, will now rule on these decisions. I would remind you that some time ago we had taken a reference to the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which I remind you that its main function is to protect competition. Not to deal with public procurement appeals, but to protect competition. There should be competition in the country in the fuel market and so on, not to list all sectors where there are obviously problems. But what does it turn out to be? The first half of 2014 On one reference that we took from the Supreme Administrative Court, by the middle of the year, all the acts of this Commission, which were appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court on the application of the Law on Protection of Competition, have been abolished 100%, which in itself speaks clearly enough about the quality of the Commission's work on its main task. On the additional task, if you accept that this is the work of the Law on Public Procurement and Appeals, there were 50% of the repealed acts, which is also a very bad attestation. That's what I'm offering you. I will now present the editorial proposal to the President as well the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 195, para. 3 to be replaced by the court responsible for administration at the permanent address or seat of the applicant. It is hardly necessary to say that this will also be a convenience for the complainants themselves, who will not have to travel to Sofia from all over the country, but will be able to make their appeal to the competent court at their permanent address, there to defend their thesis and to seek justice. By the way, at the moment dealing with public procurement and appeal, he knows that the Commission for Protection of Competition is normally looking at about 10 files within 15 minutes. I hardly need to explain to you what can be pointed out within a minute and anything from any complainant on the relevant file such as arguments, expertises, persons of interest and so on. It's obviously a malfunctioning system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u93	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. To speak, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u94	Madam President, honourable Members, the proposal we are making regarding the amendment of art. 195, para. 3 is related to another legal structure. That is to say, the changes relating to the authority which controls the legality of the acts, actions and omissions of contracting entities to be the Supreme Administrative Court everywhere. The proposed order differs from the one in force, not in substance, but in relation to the proposal for the modification of the control body on the legality of the acts of the contracting entities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission for Protection of Competition is competent and should regulate competition on the various product markets in the country and not carry out any kind of judicial review, because this is contrary to the fundamental principles laid down in the Constitution and the Law on the Judiciary. As defined by the regulatory authority, the KPC should not control the legality of acts which is the control of the jurisdiction of the judiciary. The control of procedures under the Public Procurement Act (SIP) is essentially a control of legality and not regulation, which is why it should be judicial, especially in view of the formal nature of the procedures under the Public Procurement Act. The proposed amendments ensure compliance of the appeal proceedings against the CPO with the existing appeal proceedings under the Administrative Procedure Code, which implements traditional judicial control under established effective rules, taking into account, nevertheless, the specificities of public procurement and the need for a more rapid examination of disputes. I agree with colleague Slavov, but I am concerned about the competence of the relevant administrative courts in the relevant areas. Thank you. [[Single applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u95	- What's the line? I won't. To speak, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u96	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to another matter of a very serious nature concerning the appeal of the acts issued under this Law. Among them there are many for which we find a serious reason, but naturally the problem lies where we read which acts are not subject to appeal. Among them are the opening acts in the part concerning the reasons for the inability to divide the subject-matter of the contract into lots. Although it sounds complicated, the question has a very easy life explanation. This will perhaps bring you back a hundred members in this act, when I once again appealed for this type of act to be appealed. Why? Because each contracting entity, according to the text so proposed, will be able to divide into separate lotts, as we are used to saying, or into separate parts of contracts according to, so to speak, its own discretion, and this cannot be appealed in court. For example, if a building is built, it will be able to combine, figuratively speaking, the rough construction with the electrical installation. Accordingly, it will be able to combine, say, water supply and sewer parts with fine completion and painting activities. A similar type of division should be able to be appealed because otherwise such division will give a very strong instrument in the hands of contracting entities, with which they will be able to prepare in advance exactly which contractor to take over which lot, as they will adjust them according to their capabilities and, naturally, according to what they have agreed in advance under the table. If this thing can be appealed before a court, it will save a lot of money to the treasury because at an early stage such a type of upcoming participation in competitions will be cancelled by the court such decisions and contracting entities will have to comply with the court's decision. Otherwise, what's threatening us? To rotate the entire procedure, to win the pre-set by subjective discretion of the contracting authority, then to appeal for the whole procedure, to drop the whole procedure and to return to the outgoing position. If you drop the t. 2 of para. 2 of art. 195, this opportunity will end, at a very early stage, we will be able to appeal the upcoming almost procedure and thus, and much more flexiblely we will be able to complete the procedures under the Public Procurement Act, otherwise they will become endless, after successful appeals we will have to repeat again and again, which is not at all in the interest of business turnover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u97	Any lines to Mr. Karadjov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Kadyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u98	(non-member) Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to ask you to support a proposal that I have made. The scope of this Law is the so-called public procurement through a public advertisement, however, they cannot be appealed at the moment, as they do not fall within the scope of the contested procedures, according to this article. 195 of the Law. If you are currently appealing them at the KPC or in the SAC, they return them to you with the argument that they are not being appealed. Public procurement through public adverts amounts to between 60 thousand. And 270 thousand. lv. in construction and between 20,000. And 66,000. lv. in services, which means they're small. For the last year "2015," these were 11 384 public contracts. Even if they are at the minimum amount of 20,000. BGN, which I mentioned, they still make a total of about 30 million. BGN, and most likely more, probably more than 1 billion. lv. It doesn't make any sense that they shouldn't be appealed. Each of you at the moment as a natural person, if any punishment is imposed on any of the laws of 50 BGN, for 100 BGN, even he can appeal, and at the same time you cannot appeal a public contract for construction for example 200 thousand. lv. When I spoke with the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, stating his arguments, Mr. Kirilov, his argument was: "Well, we will block the courts." That's not an argument to me. You cannot have the refusal of someone's right to appeal because you do not have enough administrative capacity. By this logic, we should, for example, ban the appeal of any criminal convictions within five years, as these courts are clogged as well. Everyone has the right to appeal. That's my argument, which I'm putting out, and I don't see any argument in the opposite direction. I ask you to support this thing, because it concerns precisely the small and medium-sized business he participates in these orders for 100 thousand, 200 thousand, 50 thousand, 30 thousand. Big companies don't care about that. If we want to show small and medium-sized businesses that we care for his rights and give him the opportunity to appeal when he believes he has the desire to appeal, we must accept this text of the Law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-28.u99	Any lines to Mr. Kadyev? I won't. Do other MPs wish to participate in the debate on this article? There aren't any. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Lachezar Nikiforov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 22, Against 9, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 17 against 29, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Georgi Kadiev's proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 98 MPs: 29, against 32, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for an editorial change in art. 195 by importer, which becomes art. 196 of the text under discussion 3 made by Mr. Slavov, who offers instead of the words........ for protection of competition........................................................................................... 3 to be replaced by the Court of Commerce at the permanent address or seat of the applicant. We vote on Mr. Slavov's proposal. They voted 101 MPs: 24, Against 7, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the name of Part Six; Chapter twenty-sixth, which becomes twenty-seventh; Section I, supported by an importer with art. 195, which becomes art. 196 in the version of the Commission Report. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 2, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted. Colleagues, this is where we interrupt the second reading of the Public Procurement Bill. Communication of Parliamentary Control on 29 January 2016 on Friday 11.00 1. The Minister of Culture Vezdi Rashidov will answer four questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; Slavi Binev; Borislav Iglev; and Stanislav Stanilov and one question from the MP Slavi Binev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; and Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov 3. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer five questions from the MPs Atanas Stoyanov; Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions; Milen Mihov; Ivan Ibrishimov and two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev, Emil Raynov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, and Hasan Ademov; ask Michael Mikov, Emil Raynov and Philip Popov. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from MPs Filip Popov; Svetoslav Belemezov; Manol Genov; and Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. 5. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer five questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov general; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov general; Zhelyo Boychev; Slavi Binev; and the question of Georgi Bozhinov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov general. 6. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Slavov; Miho Mihov; and Boris Stanimirov. 7. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov will answer ten questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Mihail Mikov; Rumen Yonchev; Georgi Kuchukov; Velizar Enchev; Stanislav Stanilov, two questions; Dimitar Dubov; and Christian Vigenin. 8. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Tasco Ermenkov and a question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 9. The Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev will answer two questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Mariana Boyadjieva. 10. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer a question from the MP Chavdar Georgiev. 11. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer nine questions from the MPs Cornelia Ninova; Georgi Kadiev; Velizar Enchev; Ivan Stankov; Svetla Bachvarova 12. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer seven questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Tasco Ermenkov; Stanislav Stanilov; Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov in general; Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov in general; Petar Kadiev; and Mikhail Mikov and Filip Popov in general. 13. The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer three questions from the MPs Slavi Binev; Petar Kadiev; and Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov. 14. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer one question from the MP Martin Dimitrov. 15. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer 15 questions from the MPs Manol Genov Two; Dzhevdet Chakarov; Mihail Mikov; Yavor Haytov; Mariana Boyadjieva; Georgi Kadiev; Velizar Enchev; Borislav Iglev; Dimitar Tanev; Georgi Tarnovalyski; Ivan Penkov Ivanov; Filip Popov; Tasko Ermenkov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of asking by the National Representative Slavi Binev; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Kuchukov and Svetoslav Belemezov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova, on a question from the National Representative Petar Kadiev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - three questions from the National Representative Antoni Trenchev to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and the Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova; to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; and to the Minister of Education and Science Todor Tanev; - four questions and one question from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva; and to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov, one question and one question. Due to the expiry of the time of this plenary session, I announce tomorrow a regular plenary session with the starting time "9 o'clock," I close the plenary day.
