ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u1	There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, we have left the big Bulgarian lawyer, politician and public figure Guinho Ganev. He was a remarkable parliamentarians and statesman, a man of strong charisma, with a vivid presence in the political life of the country. Our society will always remember with gratitude the wholehearted activity of Guinho Ganev as a longtime MP. Until his last breath he remained devoted to parliamentaryism and the rule of law. His work as the first Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria will not be forgotten. Let's with a minute's silence honor the memory of Guinho Ganev! [[Everyone's getting straight. One-minute silence.]] Worship will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, at 11.00 in the east wing of the National Assembly. This is the other building of the Bulgarian Parliament, which is why the rest of the plenary session tomorrow will be from 11.00 to 11.30, and not as usual by half an hour later. Dear colleagues, for only hours yesterday, terrifying events shocked us with brutal violence. A senior Russian diplomat was shot in neighbouring Turkey. In a bloody act in Berlin, dozens of people were killed and injured. In a shooting in Switzerland, citizens were injured. Let us condemn these ineligible barbaric attacks against the lives of innocent people, against values and freedom! Please, with a moment of silence, honor the victims' memory! [[Everyone's getting straight. One-minute silence.]] Today we are holding an extraordinary plenary session on Friday's programme. I would like to remind you: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. 2. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. 3. First vote on the Bill of Supplements to the Civil Procedure Code. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. 5. A bill ratifying the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. In relation to the request made by the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov to give permission to arouse prosecution against the People's Representative Iliya Yankov Iliev, the same with an application dated 20 December 2016 informed the President of the National Assembly that he consented to arousal of prosecution against him at the request. By my letter, I have informed the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Iliya Iliev to arouse prosecution against him at the request, by applying a certified copy of the application. Moving on to point one: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. (General report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.) Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a general bill amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 653-08-47, drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on the basis of the bill adopted in the first vote amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 602-01-60, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2016, and the Draft amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 602-01-79, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the import text for paragraphs 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u3	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Bill and paragraphs 1 and 2. Vote 137 MPs: for 136, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u4	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 3 is replaced by "Communication and dispatch of workers and employees within the framework of the provision of services Art. 121a. (1) Posting of workers or employees in the framework of the provision of services is available where: 1. Bulgarian employer posting worker or employee in the territory of another Member State of the European Union, country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or of the Swiss Confederation: (a) on its own account and under its own authority on the basis of a contract concluded between the employer and the service user; (b) in an undertaking of the same group of undertakings; 2. employer registered under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, country of the Agreement on the European Economic Area, of the Swiss Confederation or of a third country posting worker or employee in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria: (a) on its own account and under its own authority on the basis of a contract concluded between the employer and the service user; (b) an undertaking of the same group of undertakings. (2) Sending of workers or employees within the framework of the provision of services is available where: 1. registered under the Bulgarian law undertaking providing temporary work sends a worker or employee to a user enterprise in the territory of another Member State of the European Union, a country under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or to the Swiss Confederation; 2. an undertaking providing temporary work registered under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, a country country under the Agreement on the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation or a third country shall send a worker or employee to a user undertaking in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) A worker or employee may be seconded or dispatched under the conditions laid down in para. 1 and 2 where, for the entire period of secondment or dispatch, there is an employment relationship between him and the posting or sending employer. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 at least the minimum working conditions as established for workers and employees performing the same or similar work in the host country shall be provided for the period of secondment or the dispatch of the worker or employee. (5) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 and para. 2, p. 2 at least the minimum working conditions as established for workers and employees performing the same or similar work in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be provided for the period of secondment or dispatch of the worker or employee. (6) Where, in accordance with the requirements of para. 5, the employer under para. 1, t. 2 and the enterprise providing temporary work under para. 2, p. 2, do not provide a basic wage of at least the minimum wage established for the country and/or at least the minimum amount of additional overtime and night work remuneration, the worker or employee shall be entitled to: 1. the unpaid wages payable under the conditions of para. 5; 2. benefits or other claims relating to the employment relationship due under law; 3. recovery of taxes and/or social contributions unduly withheld from the remuneration; 4. reimbursement of excessive costs compared to the wage or the quality of accommodation withheld from the employee's wage for accommodation provided by the employer. (7) A worker or employee who has brought an action for non-compliance with the minimum conditions of work under para. 4 or 5 shall not be adversely treated by the employer on that basis. (8) The terms and conditions of secondment and dispatch under para. 1 and 2 shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. No proposals have been made under paragraphs 4 and 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u5	Colleagues, speeches on the reported paragraphs with numbers 3, 4 and 5? I won't. We vote enblock three paragraphs. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u6	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs the proposal has been made. Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs: Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: "§ 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154, para. 2 the words "days for gratitude" and to move weekends during the year are replaced by "days for gratitude." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 154 the following amendments and additions are 1. A new para is being created. 2: When the official holidays under para. 1, except for Easter holidays, coincide with Saturday and/or Sunday, the first or first two working days after them are not present. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers may declare a one-off and other days not present for public respect for important historical, political, cultural or other particularly significant events, as well as the days for the celebration of certain professions and for the consideration of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u7	Statements under § 6? Mr. Chetin Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u8	Thank you, Madam President. I support the Commission's text, I just want to ask the question: what do the days mean for expressing appreciation and what is the difference between expressing appreciation and paying tribute? Somehow, it doesn't sound like a very good way of expressing appreciation to me. Obviously, it aims to distinguish the paying of tribute as a day that the Council of Ministers can declare unattainable and gratitude, which may not be absent, that is, to be in honor of something. The expression of appreciation somehow does not sound to me, I have never heard such an expression before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u9	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev, Kanev, Saveklieva, Boychev and Bajraktarov. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 128 MPs: 23, Against 6, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 6 in the version of the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: for 93, against 4, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u10	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 187 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.), Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on improving securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories and amending Directives 98/26/EC and 2014/65/EU and Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 (OB, L 257/1 of 28 August 2014.), or of implementing acts, by a worker or employee, is not a violation of para. 1, t. 8 except in cases where the same person intentionally communicates false information. In paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10, including the Commission, shall support the text of the importer for § 7, 8, 9 and 10, respectively, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u11	Statements on proposals from the Commission new § 7 and paragraphs by importer from 7 to 10 including, respectively, 8 to 11, are there? I won't. We are voting on paragraphs 7 to 11 on the Commission report. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer under § 11 and shall propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ..................................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. A t is created. 2a: It's 2a. The group of enterprises under art. 121a, para. 1, t. 1 point (b) is a concept within the meaning of Paragraph 1 point. 5 of the additional provisions of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. 2. Point 16 is repealed. 3. A t is created. 21: ..21. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009). PRESENT CECCA TSACHEVA: Statements under § 11? I won't. Please vote. Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u13	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u14	We vote on the name of the division, § 12 by importer, with its new numbering of § 13. Vote 113 MPs: for 112, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u15	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The administrative criminal proceedings for infringement of art. 121, para. 3 and 4 are finished in the current order. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15, and the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u16	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the section of the Office of Transport and Final Provisions, § 14, § 15 and § 16 in the numbering of the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u17	Proposal by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs: § 16 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 5, item 2 of the subsp. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG...) in art. 55 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2: When the official holidays under para. 1, except for Easter holidays, coincide with Saturday and/or Sunday, the first or first two working days after them are not present. 2. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers may declare once and other days as not present for public honor to important historical, political, cultural or other particularly significant events, as well as days for the celebration of certain professions and for gratitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u18	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 17 in the version of the Commission. Cancel the vote. First, we must vote on the unsupported proposal of Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. They voted 103 MPs: 14 against 8, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 16 by importer, which shall become § 17 in the version of the Commission on its report. They voted 101 MPs: 92, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u19	Paragraph 17. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Delyan Dobrev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 17. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u20	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. They voted 97 MPs: 13 against 4, 80 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 17 by importer, supported by a new numbering of § 18 by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u21	Paragraph 18. Proposal by the Members of the National Assembly Delyan Dobrev and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 18. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u22	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs. They voted 102 MPs: 12, against 3, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 18 by importer, fully supported by a new numbering of § 19. They voted 101 MPs: 95, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u23	Paragraph 19. A proposal from Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs to drop paragraph 19. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Galya Zaharieva and a group of MPs, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 5, t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on pre-school and school education (DV, No. 79, 2015) in art. 105, para. 2 is amended as follows: In the case of art. 154, para. 2 and 3 of the Labour Code The days that are not present are unteachable to the students.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u24	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the unsupported proposal of Mr. Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs They voted 97 MPs: 12, against 7, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 19 by importer, which becomes § 20 by version of the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u25	Proposal by the National Representative Diana Yordanova on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2th sentence third of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. The proposal has not been discussed and voted on. Proposal from the National Representative Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuse of Financial Instruments (en. DV, No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October Art. 17. (1) The persons working in the employment relationship who have submitted a notice of infringement shall be entitled to protection against disciplinary dismissal in accordance with art. 187, para. 2 of the Labour Code. (2) The procedures for the exchange of information and cooperation between the public authorities involved in the protection of the persons under para. 1 filed reports of infringements shall be determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Act shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 5, 6, 17, 18, 19 and 20, which shall enter into force on 1 January 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u26	Statements on the last two paragraphs of the Bill? I won't. We are voting in paragraphs 21 and 22 in the version of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u27	Please suspend the vote and show the result. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted, with which the Draft Law at second reading is finally adopted. Honourable Members, we are moving to item two of the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RADIO AND TELEVISION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016. Firstly, I see that there is no report from the Committee on Information Technology and Communications, but the other committees have proposed reports. The host is the Committee on Culture and Media. Here you are, dear Mr. Atanasov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that Mr. Boil Banov be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u29	A reverse opinion? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the procedural proposal for admission in this House. Vote 77 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please have the Deputy Minister come to the court. Continue with the report, dear Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u30	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment and Supplement Bill the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016. At its meeting held on 8 December 2016, the Committee on Culture and Media examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November. In accordance with The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Culture Miglena Katsarova, Chief Jurissult and Vesela Shtereva, Secretary of Parliament; Council for Electronic Media "Emilya Staneva," Chief Jurisconsult; Bulgarian National Radio "Milen Mitev," Senior Jurissult; Bulgarian National Television "Stoyko Stojkov," Legal Consult; Bulgarian Association of Cable Communication Operators "Galia Marinova," Chairman of the Governing Council. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Miglena Katsarova. The proposed Bill in the national legislation introduces the provisions of art. 3 paragraphs 2 and 4 of Directive 2010/13/EU by amending and supplementing art. 5 of the Radio and Television Act. The draft aims to refine the provisions governing the rights and obligations of radio television operators relating to the freedom of distribution of programmes under the rules of the Directive, as well as the possibilities for derogation in the event of non-compliance with the requirements and conditions for the creation and dissemination of media content. The bill also provides for the annulment of art. 116 of the Law on Radio and Television, as well as the related annulment of art. Art. 47, Art. 48, para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications. This would enable media service providers to actively finance the construction of multimedia platforms and the creation of additional media services to a radio-television operator. In the course of the discussion, support for the bill expressed the MPs Slavcho Atanasov, Irena Sokolova, Mariana Boyadjieva and Ivan Ivanov. Positive opinions on the draft are presented by: Council for Electronic Media, Bulgarian National Radio, Bulgarian National Television, Association of Bulgarian Radio and Television Operators, and the Bulgarian Association of Cable Communication Operators in some of which editorial notes have been proposed. Following the debates held, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u31	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Before we hear the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds, a statement on behalf of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you are, dear Mr. Zablyanov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, yesterday we witnessed a series of terrorist acts again the assassination of Russia's ambassador to Turkey, the peaceful citizens of a Christmas bazaar in Berlin, the shooting of citizens in Zurich. Despite sharp reactions and security measures taken in Europe following previous attempts at violence, terrorist attacks have not ceased. Peace is under threat. There's a war going on in Europe. The audacity of the attacks once again raises the question of the need to overcome the contradictions and synergies of countries in the destruction of the sources of terrorism. It is obvious that today we need a single policy based on the principles of international law, which takes into account the interests of all countries and thus provides guarantees for the lives of citizens, freedom and democracy. The events of recent days prove once again the need for a new policy based on global cooperation to combat terrorism and political extremism. The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party expressed its position that Bulgaria should continue to be part of these efforts to prevent all forms of violence and to achieve lasting peace, economic and social development, not only in Europe, but also in the Middle East. We express our condolences to the families and relatives of those who have died and strongly condemn the assassinations of human life.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. We are continuing with a report by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Tanchev, the President of the Commission seems to be not in the Chamber... People's representative Daniela Panayotova you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you: This Regulation on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 December, In 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Miglena Katsarova took part in the Commission meeting in the Directorate of Legal Service and Public Procurement at the Ministry of Culture. I. This Bill aims to address several discrepancies between national legislation and the requirements of Directive 2010/13/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down in laws, regulations and administrative acts of the Member States relating to the provision of audiovisual media services. This is necessary in connection with a letter sent by the General Secretariat of the European Commission to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the subsequent initiation of infringement procedure No 2016/2034 concerning incorrect transposition of art. 3 paragraphs 2 and 4 of Directive 2010/13/EU. II. The European Commission has found that art. 5 of the Law on Radio and Television (MET) is not entirely synchronized with the requirements of art. Article 3 (2) (d) of the Directive. The provisions in question concern the circumstances under which the transfer of television broadcasts from other EU Member States may be restricted to Bulgaria. With the amendments proposed in this Draft Law of art. 5, para. The possibility of a derogation should only exist if the following conditions are met: 1) the program openly, seriously and severely violates art. 17, para. 2 and 3 of the ZRT; (2) at least two similar infringements committed by the television operator have been identified for a previous period of one year; (3) The Electronic Media Board has notified the operator and the European Commission in writing of the infringements identified and of the measures it intends to take; 4) consultations with the Member State under whose jurisdiction the television operator falls and with the Commission have not led to an acceptable settlement. III. The proposed bill also provides for the creation of a new para. 7 and para. 8 in art. 5 of the HRT, which concerns the possibility of a derogation with regard to media services on request. The conditions for this are listed in item 1. 1 of para. 7: preserving public order and public health, ensuring national security and consumer protection, including investors. In turn, al. 8 regulates a procedure for mandatory notification to the Member State under whose jurisdiction the provider of the media service falls, as well as to the European Commission, of the intention to take measures under para. 7. At the same time, in art. 5 is created and para. 9 concerning the occurrence of emergencies in which the conditions under para. 8 may not apply. IV. Last but not least, the Bill includes the annulment of art. 116th of ZRT. According to the same undertaking authorised by the Communications Regulation Commission for the use of individually defined resource, a spectrum for carrying out electronic communications through terrestrial digital broadcasting networks cannot be a radio and television operator. In addition, the Final Provisions propose the annulment of Articles 47a and 48 para. 3 of the Law on Electronic Communications. In this way, synchronization of the two special laws should be achieved. The Law on Radio and Television and the Law on Electronic Communications. In view of the above and as a result of the vote taken, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 12 votes for the European Parliament and 2 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, No 602-01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Panayotova. Dear colleagues, before announcing the beginning of the debates, I would like to announce that on the balcony our guests are students from the Professional High School of Aleko Konstantinov, Mezdra, as well as their lecturers. I'm asking you to say hello. [[Applause.]] Are there any on behalf of the importer? I won't. I'm opening the debate on the proposed bill. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. I request that all Members of the National Assembly be guided to the House. We'll vote and see the results. Honourable Members, I am voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 602 01-71, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 November 2016. I'm calling a roll call. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - here Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - absent Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - here Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - absent Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - absent Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - absent Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u36	Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - absent Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - here Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - absent Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - absent Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - absent Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - absent Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - here Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - absent Rumen Dinev Zhelev - here Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - absent Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - absent Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - absent Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - absent Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Georgiev Todorov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hüseyin Hasan Hafuzov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - absent Tsvetomir Tsvetkov Mihov - here Tsetska Tsacheva Dangovska - here Chavdar Georgiev Georgiev - absent Chavdar Slavchev Peychev - absent Chetin Hussein Kazak - absent Shabanali Ahmed Durmush - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Iliev Haytov - absent Yanaki Boyanov Stoilov - absent Ianko Alexandrov Iankov - absent Additional login: Ayhan Etem, Georgi Kadiev, Aliosman Imamov, Mikhail Todorov, Erdinch Hajrula. We have a quorum. I put to the first vote the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u37	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the time limit for written proposals between the first and second votes on the adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television be three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u38	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 101 MPs: 97 against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROECT FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE CIVIL CODEX, No 602-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers. A report from the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova will introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! I request permission to enter Mrs. Vergenia Micheva's room. Deputy Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u40	We vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u41	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Bill of Supplement to the Civil Procedure Code, No 602-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016. At its meeting held on 7 December 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law supplementing the Civil Procedure Code, No 602-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Vergenia Micheva. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Vergina Micheva. The bill introduces the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 655/2014 for the establishment of a European freezing order procedure for bank accounts in order to facilitate cross-border recovery of claims in civil and commercial matters. It is settled that the applicant's right to request the issuing of the European order prior to the substantive dispute before the Court of First Instance, during all the proceedings and after a judgment has been given. It is envisaged that a competent authority for issuing the European Bank Account Preservation Order will be the first instance court competent to examine the substantive dispute if its issue is sought before the substantive dispute is brought. Information on inquiries from foreign courts is proposed to be provided by the Ministry of Justice. It shall be possible for the debtor to request the revocation or amendment of the order issued and to restrict or terminate its execution by the court which issued it. It is envisaged that the receipt, surrender or service of the Preservation Order will be carried out by judicial contractors who are also the competent authority for the execution of the Preservation Orders. During the discussion took part the MPs Chavdar Georgiev and Christian Mitev. In response to Mr. Mitev's question regarding the designation of the Ministry of Justice as an information body, Mrs. Micheva pointed out that the Ministry of Justice is a centralized body at national level for receiving requests for bank accounts and has the expertise needed in the administration of electronic registers and information systems. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-68, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u42	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the first vote the Bill of Supplements to the Civil Procedure Code. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted. Next item: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY PROTECTION LAW. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Alexandrova!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. At its meeting held on 7 December 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev from the Commission for Protection of Competition, Vice President and Mr. Teodor Georgiev from the Executive Director of the Department of Law and Competition Policy. From the Ministry of Economy Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova from the Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy. The bill was presented by Mr. Kyumyrdzhiev, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules for settlement of claims for damages for distortions of competition. He noted that the provisions of the directive should be introduced into the Bulgarian legislation by 27 December 2016. The bill provides for measures to enable all natural and legal persons to receive full compensation for the damage suffered as a result of a breach of the antitrust rules under Chapter 3 and fourth of the Law on Protection of Competition. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law lay down provisions on the transfer of the mark-up, the time limits for seeking protection from the injured persons, and the assumption that the cartel is causing damage. In accordance with the Directive, it is proposed that the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition enter into force be binding on the civil court on the fact of the infringement and the establishment of the violator, as well as on the establishment of rules facilitating access by injured persons to evidence, including those collected in the proceedings before the Commission on Protection of Competition. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 11 votes for the competition law, without the opposition and 4 votes for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill of amendment and supplement to the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u44	Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: This Regulation on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. At its regular meeting on 7 December 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev "Vice-President of the Commission for Protection of Competition." It complies with the requirements of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules for the settlement of claims for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of the law of the Member States of the European Union in the field of competition. The measures provided for in the Directive aim to effectively exercise the right to compensation for damages caused by infringements of national antitrust rules and of art. 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It shall be possible for injured persons to receive full compensation for the damage suffered and to optimise the interaction between public and private law enforcement. The introduction of Directive 2014/104/EU into the national laws of the Member States will also help to address differences with regard to applicable rules. A special order has been provided for the submission of evidence collected on a file of a competition authority. This is dictated by the need to maintain the effectiveness of administrative proceedings in the application of the right to competition by the national competition authority. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. We will now also hear the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Hubenova will introduce him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u47	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 December 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition submitted by the Council of Ministers. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy took part in the meeting of the Commission: Mrs. Silvana Lyubenova Director of the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy and Mrs. Desislava Georgieva. On the part of the Commission for Protection of Competition (KPC) attended Mr. Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev "Vice-President of the KPC," as well as Mr. Teodor Georgiev....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I. This Bill is aimed at the harmonisation of the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive 2014/104/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 November 2014 on certain rules for settlement of claims for damages under national law for infringements of the provisions of the laws of the Member States and of the European Union in the field of competition. The aim is to achieve an effective exercise of the right to compensation for damages caused as a result of violations of national antitrust rules and of art. 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). II. The amendments proposed in the Bill provide for the right to all natural and legal persons to claim compensation for damage suffered by infringements of antitrust rules, insofar as both competing companies and end-users, counterparties and others may be found among the affected circle of persons. At the same time, the Draft Law included provisions on the amount of possible compensation and the transfer of the excess on the supply chain. In order to provide sufficient time for victims to submit a claim for compensation, rules on the application of limitation periods shall be proposed. In this regard, the Bill also introduces the rebuttal assumption that the cartel is causing damage. In this way, it should be made easier for injured persons to prove their claims for compensation and, on the other hand, to ensure the right of offenders to defend their position. III. In order to address the difficulties in proving antitrust infringements, the draft law proposes binding force for the civil court to the Commission's decisions on the protection of competition in force in respect of the infringement and of the infringement found, as well as in the case of a Commission decision which has not been appealed or where the action against it has been withdrawn. In addition, the Bill shall settle the issue of liability where the infringement has been committed by two or more undertakings. In such cases, persons should be jointly liable for the damage caused. This Draft Law also provides for the introduction of rules to facilitate access by the persons concerned to the necessary evidence in order to justify their claims. At the same time, the civil court will be able to impose fines and property penalties on natural or legal persons when they fail to comply with an order of the court to provide evidence or have destroyed them. Last but not least, the proposed Draft will amend the Additional Provisions of the Law on Protection of Competition by adding new legal definitions in order to achieve uniform and non-controversial application of the rules of Directive 2014/104/EU. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed to the National Assembly by 14 votes to adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition, No 602-01-74, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Hubenova. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who would like to take part in the draft discussion? I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection of Competition. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The bill was passed in the first vote. Coming up next: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT ON ENFORCED PARTNERSHIP AND COOPERATION BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been submitted by the committees to which it has been allocated, with the exception of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the lead. Mrs. Hubenova, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u49	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, No 602-02-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 December 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, tabled by the Council of Ministers. The Commission's meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mr. Gancho Ganev, Director of the Directorate of Eastern Europe and Central Asia and Mrs. Kalina Cholakova, specialist in the same Directorate. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this Draft Law is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement signed on 21 December 2015. This Agreement should replace the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union (EU) and the Republic of Kazakhstan, which has been in force since 1999. The amendment aims to achieve a new contractual framework which fully corresponds to the beneficial partnership between the Parties and the growing political and economic role of Kazakhstan in regional and international terms. The agreement consists of nine shares covering three key elements: political dialogue and cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy; trade and business; and industrial cooperation. In addition, an institutional framework establishing a procedure for settlement of disputes in the event of non-compliance with the Agreement shall be established. The implementation of the Agreement is expected to follow a number of benefits such as promoting political, economic and energy relations between the Parties, strengthening cooperation on migration issues, as well as exchange of goods, services and investments. This will represent an important step towards a greater political and economic commitment of the European Union in Central Asia. It should be borne in mind that the Republic of Kazakhstan is a priority partner for the Republic of Bulgaria in the region of Central Asia and the relations between the two countries are traditionally good. In this regard, ratification of the Agreement will contribute to the further development of these relations, which is fully in line with our national interests in the field of politics, trade, economy and energy in the region, as well as with the common framework of the European Union Strategy for Central Asia. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed (with 14 votes for the European Parliament) to adopt in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, No 602-02-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u50	Thank you. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, come in. You seem to be on duty as rapporteurs today. You're prepared, all right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u51	Thank you, Madam President. I'm presenting. ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, No 602-02-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016. At its regular meeting on 14 December 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. The bill was presented by Gancho Ganev "Director of the Eastern Europe and Central Asia Directorate" at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Agreement was signed on 21 December 2015. As a mixed-type Agreement, it is subject to ratification by the Member States of the European Union and Kazakhstan and to approval by the European Union. Its implementation is expected to promote political, economic and energy relations between the Parties, as well as contribute to their cooperation on migration issues, the promotion of investment, the exchange of goods and services. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt, at first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, No 602-02-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u52	And a report by the Committee on Foreign Policy, Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u53	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, No 602-02-45, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016. At a meeting held on 7 December 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed on 21 December 2015. The reasons for the bill were presented by Mr. Gancho Ganev "Director of the Directorate of Eastern Europe and Central Asia" in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Kazakhstan is the first country in Central Asia with which the European Union negotiated a similar type of Agreement. It should replace and update the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the two Parties, which has been in force since 1999. The Agreement consists of your key elements Title II contains provisions on political dialogue, democracy and the rule of law, foreign and security policy, space security, serious international crime, conflict prevention and crisis management and the fight against terrorism. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the Supported cooperation: Title IV. "Cooperation in the field of economic and sustainable development". Title V. "Cooperation in the field of freedom, security and justice........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, the Agreement establishes an institutional framework (Section VIII "Institutional Framework') consisting of a Cooperation Council, a Cooperation Committee and a Parliamentary Cooperation Committee. It also introduces a dispute settlement procedure. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Ratification of the Agreement by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will reaffirm Bulgaria's lasting political commitment to one of its priority partners in the Central Asia region. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 11 votes for.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u54	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP) will support the proposed Draft for ratification of the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and Kazakhstan. We think that this is a very good opportunity for Bulgaria, for the Bulgarian business to develop its relations with one of the key countries in Central Asia, with a growing role in both the economy and politics in the region. We support the Agreement. We also believe that it can become a good model of possible cooperation between the European Union and the Eurasian Economic Union. The very fact that such an enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement is signed between the European Union and a member of the Eurasian Economic Union shows that there is a way to clear the contradictions, to move towards levelling the technical standards, to strengthening the opportunities for greater trade, respectively investments. Of particular importance, I think, for us is also the fact that an important share in this agreement is also tourism - a sector in our relations, which is not sufficiently developed at the moment. With these arguments we support the Agreement and hope that after its entry into force the next Bulgarian government will make it possible to take full advantage of it, which, I say again, opens up serious opportunities for us, for the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u56	Any lines to Mr. Vigenin? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. First attempt to vote. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber, there is a vote. There's a second vote coming up. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The ratification of the first vote has been unanimously adopted. [[Reply from BSP LB: "Even with the votes of BSP!." Proclaims: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] That's a lot of support. Your contribution is crucial. Here you go, Mrs. Hubenova procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] And to make the support even more firm, if you invite your colleagues to this House, I think we'll be more relaxed. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u57	Madam President, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 December 2016, be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u58	We vote, fellow Members. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We're listening to your second vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u59	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, Sole Article. Ratifying the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Kazakhstan, of the other part, signed on 21 December 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u60	Statements? I won't. We vote ratification at second reading. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted and with this ratification and the second vote. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE LOCAL LOCKS. Report on the second vote of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I request a procedure for admission on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure for Mrs. Micheva "Deputy Minister of Justice."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u62	We are voting on this proposal. Colleagues, there's a second vote. You're on the verge of a quorum. Such free movement around the hall!? I'm talking, they're going out! Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister if there is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u63	A draft amending and supplementing the Special Bets Act, No 602-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2016 The Act for amendment and supplement of the Special Bets Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... significance of a pledge and form of the contract Art. 2. (1) The bet shall be established by entering in the Central Register of Special Bets or in the intended other register on the basis of a specific bet contract. (2) The special pledge contract shall be concluded in writing and, in the cases expressly provided for in this law, shall be signed in writing with a notary endorsement of the signatures. (3) The requirements for form under para. 2 also apply in the case of amendment and addition of the special bet contract. Any consent of the hostage creditor shall be given in writing with a notary endorsement of the claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Under § 6 the Commission shall support the text of the importer by proposing to create a title of art. 10 ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 10 ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u64	Are there any statements on the name of the Law and paragraphs with numbers 1 to 8 including the Commission's proposal for § 6 to art. Is there a title for the hostage debtor's rights? I won't. We vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u65	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9 and propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it are created sentences second and third: "For the entry of each subsequent pledge on the same property, the agreement of the previous pledge creditors is necessary. This rule shall also apply to the establishment of a pledge on an asset included in a pledged commercial entity under the conditions of art. 21, para. 3. 2. The creation of para. 2: The order of the special bets on property formed as a result of the processing or accession of pledged items shall be determined by the order of entry of the bets on the raw materials and parts from which the processed or transferred goods are obtained. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u66	Are there any statements on paragraphs 9 to 15 included? I won't. We vote. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u67	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 16 and shall propose the following wording: ......... 16........................................... Article 22 is amended as follows: Central register of special bets Art. 22. (1) The central register of special bets shall be an electronic database containing circumstances and acts entered or declared under this law. (2) Each entry, deletion or announcement shall be made in the Central Register of the special bets per individual pledge account in an electronic form to which the applications and the documents attached thereto shall apply. (3) The central register of special bets shall be kept by the Registry Agency of the Minister of Justice, hereinafter referred to as the Agency. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 18 by proposing to create a title of art. 24 "Publicity." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 20 and proposes the following wording: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "for the granting of a claim' shall be replaced by "for the making of a claim'. 2. In para. 3 after the words the corresponding register shall be added by art. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3. A new para is being created. 4, 5 and 6: For electronic applications, the amount of the fee shall not exceed 50 per cent of the relevant fee provided for the submission of applications in paper form. (5) The Agency shall provide specialised services for automated access to the register for a fee under para. 2. (6) Access to the register by official means of the court, public authorities, local authorities and other persons referred to in law shall be free of charge. 4. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 by proposing in para. 1, t. 6 words................................................................................. 2, p. To be replaced by............................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 28, proposing to create a title of art. 28 "Study of applications." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 31 by proposing to create a title of art. 29 "Appeal of refusal." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 34, proposing to create a title of art. 32 "Introduction of the implementation'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 37, proposing to create a title of art. 35 "Customs of Force." The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 38 by proposing to create a title of art. 36 "Dispute." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 40 by proposing to create a title of art. 38 "Depositaire." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 45 by proposing to create a title of art. 46 Accommodation by a commercial enterprise. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 46 by proposing to create a title of art. 47 "Cooperation and Responsibility ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u68	Colleagues, statements on paragraphs 16 to 48 included? I won't. We're voting Anblok. Vote 80 MPs: for 80 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u69	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49. Paragraph 50 "A proposal from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50: .................................................................................. (1) The registration proceedings initiated by 1 September 2018 shall be completed in the current order. (2) The proceedings for appeals against refusals before the Minister of Justice shall be dealt with in the current order until 1 September 2018. (3) The proceedings for appeals against refusals of entries in the Central Register of Special Bets shall be dealt with in the current order before the court and which have not been concluded by 1 September 2018. Paragraph 51. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 51 be rejected as it is reflected in a new § 52, para. 2. The Commission proposes to create a new § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) The Registry Agency shall be the successor of the activities, assets, liabilities, archives and other (2) The employment and service relationships of the employees in the Central Register of Special Bets to the Minister of Justice shall be transferred to the Registry Agency under the conditions and under the terms of art. Article 123 of the Labour Code and of Article 123 of the Labour Code. 87a of the Civil Service Act and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Registry Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u70	Statements on the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions" (paragraphs 49, 50 and 51)? I won't. We are voting on the three paragraphs in the version of the Commission's report together with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The name of the division, § 49 § 50, in the version of the Commission and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 51, have been voted on. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 51 by importer will be reflected in a new systematic place. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 52 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u71	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 52 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u72	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 73 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Lodges at the bottom, Mr. Grudev, watch what we vote. Paragraph 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u73	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall align the Rules of Procedure of the Registry (2) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Justice shall issue the ordinance under art. 23. (3) Until the entry into force of the acts under para. 1 and 2 shall apply the regulations in force in so far as they do not conflict with that law. (4) Until the entry into force of the changes under para. 1 the activities of keeping, maintaining and keeping the register shall be carried out by the Central Register of Special Bets of the Minister of Justice under the current order. (5) Since the entry into force of the changes under para. 1 by 1 September 2018 the entries and refusals shall be ordered by the Executive Director of the Agency for the Entrepreneurship. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 54 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 51, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u74	That's it. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 52 in the version of the Commission by importer that is § 53 on the Commission's report is § 52. Vote 78 MPs: 75, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 54 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u75	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 53. Proposal by the National Representative Svilen Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 18, 19, 20, § 21 concerning art. 26, para. 4 § 23 concerning Art. 27a, para. 1 and 2, § 24, § 27-31, § 33, p. Art. 1 and 3, § 39 37, para. 3, 4, 5 and 6, § 41 and § 43, p. 1 and 2 which enter into force on 1 September 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u76	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 55 by importer, fully supported, which becomes § 53 and § 56 by importer in a new version of the Commission, which becomes § 54. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The proposals have been adopted, and with this the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Special Bets is voted on at second reading. Moving on to the next point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. There are three reports from the committees: the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Then at 3:30, we'll make an interruption at 2:00. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u77	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would first like to make a proposal for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 46, para. 2 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Hristo Angelichin Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Plamen Georgiev Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Plamen Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u78	Please vote. On this draft, the reports belong to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Cancel the vote. Continue with the reports, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u79	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 602-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2016. At its regular meeting on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Hristo Angelichin Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Plamen Georgiev Executive Director of Plamen Georgiev, Emil Karanikolov Executive Director of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency and Rusi Statkov Member of the Supervisory Board. The bill presented by Deputy Minister Angelichin is drawn up in connection with the inclusion of premises by..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The company itself has been included in the list since 2015. The amendment is dictated by the fact that "Agency of diplomatic properties in the country" is a commercial company with a hundred state participation in capital, the rights of the state are exercised by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and this ensures that the Republic of Bulgaria is able to fulfil its obligations arising from art. 21 and 22 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. In the course of the discussion the Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control Emil Karanikolov supported the Bill, noting that this amendment of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act does not prevent future sales of separate parts of the company, but that the company will be able to carry out executive transactions with them after a decision of the Council of Ministers, i.e. their sale will not be made through privatisation. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 602-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u80	Thank you. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Foreign Policy. Mr. Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u81	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 602-01-73, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 November 2016. At a meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control No 602-01-73. The motives for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Hristo Angelichin. The draft Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control is designed to prevent the sale of certain parts of the country's diplomatic property. "Agency diplomatic properties in the country" is a commercial company with 100 per cent state participation in capital. In 2015, the company was listed in Annex No 1 under art. 3, para. 1 of the ZSK. The capital of the diplomatic property agency in the country is included also units that are important for its activities and serve the needs of diplomatic missions in Bulgaria. This bill lays down those entities by the company which will be included in the privatization ban list.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The adoption of the proposed changes will ensure the implementation of the activities of the Agency diplomatic properties in the country..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 21 and 22 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and under art. 30 and 31 of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 16 votes.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. The debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u83	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My speech contains an element of procedure, Madam President, so I will ask you, perhaps, to take an attitude. It seems to me that we had to look at another bill today together with the one we are currently looking at at at the Council of Ministers. This is the so-called "interpretational law" or a bill for an interpretive draft of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, which we have introduced with our colleagues Dimitrov and Andreev. It was reviewed together with this Draft Law of the Economic Commission. It's strange to me that we don't look at it in this room even though it wasn't supported by the Economic Commission. It is logical, however, that it should be discussed, and if it considers plenary to support it or reject it, that is, the procedure does not stop with the consideration of a bill in committee. Even more so, it was imported during the previous month of September, while this one was imported, I think, in October. So this is something that made an impression on me at first reading, listening to committee reports. Secondly, now as a position on the bill that we are looking at, fellow Members, I think we are setting a very dangerous precedent with this bill. If you look closely in it, you will see that in practice all so-called "special parts" are described, already as separate properties, which must be entered on the ban list on a proposal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In other words, it is accepted that every office almost does not except for the enterprises that are included in the Prohibition List, should describe all parts of them, but as you can see, in the form of a bill to be voted on by the National Assembly. This, first of all, will turn the law into a rather voluminous volume with the application of various properties inside, separate parts, property and so on. Secondly, it will be extremely difficult for the work of both the legislator and the agencies themselves. For me, the correct approach was, let's say, basically, that once an undertaking was included in the Prohibition List, it was considered to be included in the Prohibition List and all its compartments. Not to play, or rather to play, a cat and a mouse with the National Assembly, I refer the case to the Diplomatic Club, which we all remember well. This was actually the meaning of this interpretive law that we have tabled, namely to say that the will of the legislator is clear. If an enterprise is on the Forbidden List, all its assets and compartments shall be considered as prohibited for privatisation without the National Assembly. The contrary would mean allowing, if a particular part or property is not included in this precautionary list, which is part of the Law, I pay attention to it being sold out by itself tomorrow and these enterprises by appetizing and attractive enterprises, to become hollow structures that have only liabilities and everything appetizing is sold out. Thank you. [[Replications between MPs Petar Slavov and Krasimir Velchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Since you have had a question for me, why is the Interpretation Law not included in the program, I inform you, if you are listening to me right now about your question, why is the Interpretation Law not included in the programme, in the last month of December the Programme is being formed according to the priorities that each committee has presented to me and I have submitted to the parliamentary groups. The relevant committees have not received such an eloquent bill that the committee chiefs, the chairmen, are proposing on the agenda of Parliament. [[Reply of MP Petar Slavov.]] Interpretation law, we can't believe it's the same matter with another law, a whole new order and a kind of law, that's what it is. Any lines to Mr. Slavov? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! I strongly support the Law of the Council of Ministers. But I will try to point out to you that the problem is bigger. What happened to the Diplomatic Club? Parts of ADIS have been sold, although the enterprise itself is on the Prohibition List. The Privatization Agency makes such an interpretation and says: "Nothing that an enterprise is on the Prohibition List, we can sell any parts without the consent of the Bulgarian Parliament. That is, honourable Members, we or our colleagues at previous national meetings are putting certain enterprises on the Privatization List. However, the Privatization Agency without any concern and without asking anyone sells separate parts of them. It may at last be that on the Forbidden List it remains on the Forbidden List, and the most appetizing parts have been sold. Unfortunately, this is the example of the Diplomatic Club. A very interesting question I asked in this regard to the privatisation agency and asked them: It's east. They couldn't explain to me how they grouped these properties and how they sold them. In order not to continue these practices, we have two approaches. One approach is all ministries, like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to describe all possible compartments so that they cannot be privatized in this way. That's one approach. Only so far, we only have one ministry that's done it. That is, all ministries to the last to describe the divisions and to say that they are not subject to privatisation, but we do not have that. The other possible approach is to say that since the Bulgarian Parliament, after you, colleagues, after you, Madam President, voted for a particular enterprise to be on the Prohibition List, it is an incorrect interpretation of the provisions of the Law to be able to sell separate parts of it. Simply put, we have said that this car is not for sale, and the Agency says yes, it is not for sale, but I will sell the tires, the engine, the compartment and will remain the registration numbers on the Forbidden List. Let us support this Law, but it does not solve the problem fully. He decides it for the Foreign Ministry, who have seen that certain properties are sold without their consent and people have taken measures. We support them, we believe you will support them. People are right. What do we do with all the other ministries? If they don't react the same way, the Privatization Agency could sell them tomorrow. He won't ask you, colleagues, and you won't understand. Now I'm going to ask you: do you know exactly what are the properties that are sold under the code name of the Diplomatic Club? You know, a lot of them are in square one. - East, Sofia? I'm sure you don't know. This approach, honourable Members, is incorrect. Therefore, we, as the National Assembly, must resolve the matter in a final manner, not just for the properties of the Foreign Ministry. We have to solve the matter in principle for everyone. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u86	Replices to Mr. Dimitrov? Mr. Bayraktarov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Dimitrov, I agree with one part of your speech, but because you are a member of the Economic Policy Committee and you have attended this debate, I strongly disagree that you have not explained to the MPs how these parts are defined, as you have received a precise and clear answer. I, in the form of a reply, would like to give this response to fellow Members of the National Assembly. The answer is at the request of the buyer. That's what fellow MPs should know. More than that. It was only right to explain to fellow Members that this is not really a matter of draining state property by law. I am saying by law that because we have had a serious debate on the Bill, we have explained precisely and clearly that, in fact, when the valuation of the properties under the methodology is made, it cannot even be appealed. He can't even be appealed! According to this methodology, the assessment is usually several hundred times lower than the market price. And the most interesting thing to remind our colleagues is, colleague Dimitrov, that a publicly known fact is ultimately who is the buyer? And we need to know whether we should encourage the 20-year-old millionaires in Bulgaria. Another question is that some other institutions should immediately carry out a check, aceba, how do these 20-year-olds become millionaires?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u88	Second line? A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u89	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, what you said is absolutely true. I asked the Privatization Agency: explain to us simply, so that we understand how you have surrounded them in a separate part of the property that is located in Boyana with properties located in the district of East? We didn't get a clear answer, but we did get an interpretation, which I quote by memory that the buyer almost wanted to, which is what the buyers want, that's what the agents do. That's how you know the answer. Which, honourable Members, is unacceptable, immoral, improper, and we, as Parliament, cannot play crazy and leave such practices behind. Tomorrow they will sell other units, the day after tomorrow the third, and this bill solves the problem only for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What happens to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? They understand that, without their consent, various properties have been sold and see that if they do not take and record each part separately on the privatization ban list, this will continue. Okay, we support, people are right. What do we do with the other ministries, honourable colleagues? Tomorrow, the next sale will be in the next ministry. This issue has not been resolved, and therefore, my colleague Slavov and I have introduced an interpretive law and unfortunately, only Bajraktarov supported us. All other colleagues either were not in the Chamber, had preferred not to be there, or voted abstentions. We said so.. our bill, which is not included in the parliament programme, says the following thing: about an enterprise which is included in the privatization ban list, cannot be sold and parts thereof. Well, how do we record an enterprise being banned from privatization and the agent selling separate parts as he sees fit? Is that the spirit of the law? Is that what we all voted for? Such examples are very bad for Bulgarian parliamentaryism and because I know that there are people in this Parliament who hold their name and their dignity, I call on you to support this Law, but to think about the systematic resolution of the issue, and it is to vote and support the bill that we have tabled. Here again, colleagues, no left, no right opinion. There is a principle of opinion, and it can only be one thing to let this mouse continue, to do whatever it is they want to do, to society to make it seem that these businesses are on the privatization list, and to sell them, or to say that this can no longer go on! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u90	Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor to speak. Any other MPs? After the break, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I think that this Law, which we are discussing today, that is, the proposals for amendments to the Law, reveal or at least give us an occasion here, to talk a little bit about the vicious practices that have gained a particularly insolent expression with the sale of the Diplomatic Club in Boyana and, respectively, the few additional properties that the buyer liked and wished to buy. Firstly, I would like to start by saying that this privatisation is an absolute mockery of the Bulgarian Parliament. In 2015, on my proposal and on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, two separate Laws, the diplomatic property agency in the country was included in the country's ban list. In other words, then the relevant committees and the Bulgarian Parliament included this enterprise on this list with a clear understanding that including it includes all the properties it owns. It is absurd only a few months later or about a year later, the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, without taking into account the will of the National Assembly on an interpretation which I call it a criminal interpretation of the law, they decide that, although this enterprise is on the list, individual parts of it and individual properties that someone has liked can be sold. This is an absurd logic of CEO Emil Karanikolov, which he could never adequately protect. I have heard, for example, because there is a precedent based on this precedent with other businesses, we can apply it wherever and for whatever we want. I find it absurd when you commit one crime, then you refer to it and it practically enables you to commit new and new crimes that are somehow justified because you have already committed one another. I think it is very desirable to look into the practice of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control not only specifically for the Diploma Club and for other properties which have thus been privatized by other companies on this list, in order to see in what way state ownership, which the National Assembly itself felt must remain so and, if it has to be privatized and must be done by a decision of the National Assembly, how during this period, one or several people in the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency were ordered. I fully support the logic of the two colleagues - Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, with the Law they have proposed, but I, frankly, have the feeling that this Parliament will not accept your law because if it does, it will put an end to such vicious practices. And although, to tell you the truth, I see no reason to accept this Law, given that it is quite clear now. The interpretation that the Agency is doing under the current law is incorrect and, I would say, criminal. They're trying to find a loophole where she's not there, but if that's the way to deal with this problem, let's do it. And here I would appeal to colleagues from GERB to support this initiative. Our parliamentary group will support it, indeed, to close this door for future abuse. But the strangest thing about the whole thing is that in addition to breaking the will of the National Assembly and this privatization of the Diplomatic Club in Boyana was carried out without the knowledge and without the consent of the principle the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I've asked the minister a question here and I have a written answer in which he says that ADIS at no time informed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that he was planning this deal. I have no other qualification for this kind of behavior but a desire in a criminal way to literally steal property from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to give it to someone who likes this property. That, again, is ridiculous to me. Could the principal not know that someone is selling parts of the enterprise he manages? Well, I don't see what it's about except for a prosecutor. If I have to send a signal there, but I think the question has become so public and it should be checked not only the legality of this deal, but also where are the money of these people who bought it, and why and in what way the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control agency and its executive director Emil Karanikolov decide that they are selling something without even informing the principle. I would say that the Ministry itself has some guilt because, after all, in April, the Executive Director of ADIS informed the Minister of Foreign Affairs that such a deal is being planned and I do not remember the Minister of Foreign Affairs making a fuss, seeking assistance from the Foreign Policy Committee, telling publicly some campaign, informing the Prime Minister that something is being prepared that is detrimental to the interests of the Ministry, and I think he should have done so. I end up with this. There's a list of ADIS properties here, which I hope we'll include on the ban list, although in itself the idea is absurd that we should do it this way. However, there are other properties that are not on this list, but are generally on the property of ADIS. Without these properties, the company itself cannot function normally because it is a commercial company, operates on the free market and generates profits. If we ensure that these properties are not sold out, then if the others are sold out, the company will not be able to function effectively and adequately. Personally, I intend, as absurd as it is, that we have to do so, to submit a proposal between first and second readings with all the other properties in this company to ensure that the will of the National Assembly, as expressed in 2015, will be respected and all these properties will be prohibited for privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u92	First line Mr. Slavov, second line Mr. Bojinov, third line Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u93	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr Vigenin, you have defended a principled position, but I am obliged to give you a reply and to note that the Economic Commission, even though we have appealed for support of the Bill, which solves the problem permanently, the representatives of the BSP did not support it, even I think they were all absent from the meeting, which is not a good sign. However, the commitment that you have made here to submit between the two reading proposals for changes to the draft, which may be adopted at first reading, with which to supplement the list of missing properties, deserves support and I personally would support you. However, I would like to hear your attitude at the time when he enters the Chamber, because I hope that he will eventually get there, the main bill, which is trying to solve the problem in general and we have tabled together with colleagues Andreev and Dimitrov, I would like to hear your opinion whether in your personal capacity you would persuade your parliamentary group to support us when it is actually the important vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u94	Second line, Mr. Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Vigenin's position is correct, principled, and I support it, but there is one inexcusability I cannot ignore. There are documents at the Privatization Agency that show the following chronology. As has already been said, there is an investor's interest in this particular site and in the precisely constructed properties and assets of the company, first. Second, there's a file from the Agency at the Ministry. You are talking about the Minister. This may be true, but in the file it says that the Deputy Minister was first responsible for the responsibility of the Deputy Minister and for reasons explained in the documents of the Agency it said that the Deputy Minister had said..................................................................................... the Deputy Minister............................................................................................................................................... The minister may have replied that he didn't know and wasn't informed, and what you're saying is true, but there is an answer in the documents. Then there is a reply from the Deputy Prime Minister of this tribune that the deal is legal. The deal is not legal because by law there should be a decision of the Council of Ministers for a proposal to the National Assembly and only after such an act can there be an instrumental deal. So, the deal is illegal, it should be handled by the prosecution as it has already begun. If there is a parliament, it really needs to make an inquiry committee that understands what was created in the Privatization Agency not only on this, but also on other transactions. I graduated, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u96	Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u97	Dear Mr. Vigenin, I also believe that what you are doing is useful. In order to be useful to the end, however, we need to be more impartial and more critical of everything that has happened in this strange way! I do not know if you know that there is another deal, which was also listed in the Parliament's ban list at the time "This was the Plovdiv Fair." But you know that there the member of your High Party Council Mr. Gergov and his companies made another scheme in which this property also passed into private hands. If there is a committee of inquiry here, Mrs. President will confirm, there is a specially sent letter from Spas Gurnevski to the National Assembly, describing in detail how this deal took place. If we're going to go looking for all the deals on the ban list, and that's the right thing to do, it's the right thing to do. He's a member of your High Party Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u98	It's a hole, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u99	Thank you. Mr. Slavov, I will say that I see no reason why our parliamentary group should not support your bill. Of course, we'll discuss it. It is not exactly to say that our representatives did not support it, but were simply absent for some specific reason.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u100	All three of them?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u101	It has happened, and you're probably not always on the relevant committees. But we don't have to explain ourselves here. When this bill enters, we will discuss whatever is necessary and you will know our position. I stress that I fully support the initiative that you have made. With regard to what Mr. Bojinov said, it may be possible. I have no information because my communication is directly with the Minister. Here I have a written reply saying that the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control did not want an opinion on the possible privatisation of the Diplomatic Club by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. All it says is that the manager of ADIS has notified the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the upcoming privatisation. If there is really correspondence with the Deputy Minister who is in charge of these issues, it will be interesting to get it, because in the end, I still have a bitter taste of the overall activity of financial and other issues in the Ministry lately. Let's also see how this works. As for the idea of a committee of inquiry, yes, why not! I do not know if within this Parliament we will have time to do so, we can draw concrete facts. I don't think politics should be made of that right now. Rather, we need to look at the matter in principle, and if we consider that violations have been committed, it does not matter what color those who have committed such violations are. Let's not throw them into space and customize them before such an inspection is carried out. I claim that the interpretation of the Law is wrong at the moment, it is criminal! I hope that as long as we adopt the interpretive law, no transactions will be carried out in this way and that from now on the activities of the Agency will be lawful and appropriate and will not satisfy investor interests without the knowledge and behind the backs of the institutions concerned and against the will of the Bulgarian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u102	Mr. Bayraktarov will make his speech after the interruption. We interrupt until 2:20 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u103	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, please take our seats, the meeting continues. The word for speech is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, it is a pity that this room is empty when it is necessary... [[GERB lines.]] When I say: the hall is empty, the accusation is absolutely to all of my colleagues, and to those on the left, center, right, that is to all. But more interesting is something else. Before the break, one of the colleagues from BSP called for this bill to be supported, and especially the Bill, which we do not consider today, of colleagues Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. In fact, this was another form of hypocrisy, because in the Commission it was the BSP that got sucked up and did not support these legislations. I mean, as always, you get into some political situation where you can't really explain what the opinion is. This bill is important for several reasons, colleagues. The first reason is that the money from privatization is clear and accurately scheduled where it should go. I say this to pay attention to you and to light a lamp, for it is clear that the forty-third National Assembly has numbered days, but there will be a forty-fourth National Assembly, forty-five, and these questions must be resolved anyway. The money from privatisation comes into the so-called Silver Fund, that is, the money of our mothers and fathers, whom we are obliged to take care of. Because then it is very easy to say:.. There is no money for the pension and at the same time it is very easy to drain this money through the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. I would like to remind you that last year, in a hurry, on the knee was withdrawn and repealed § 8 of this Law. Paragraph 8 then deprives us of 200 million and today it is a fact. Now we must decide in the Law, which the Council of Ministers offers us, how to proceed with the properties of one of the ministries. Excuse me, but we have ministries that own a lot more properties. For example, this is the case with the Ministry of Health, with the Ministry of Defence. I can even give you specific examples. Have any of you been interested in what happens to an enterprise of the Ministry of Defence located in Borovets? This is one of the unique bases for recovery of the air force, and I will now pay attention to the footage of the air force, i.e. the pilots. We've already got a pilot president, we'll see how interested he gets. Keep in mind that this base was restored to the so-called "Asses" by the Air Force.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u105	And the divers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u106	Yeah, and the divers. Thank you, Vice Admiral Manushev. But this base is currently in a miserable state for a reason. It has unique facilities in which Bulgaria's Olympic hopes were once prepared and restored. This base is in a miserable state right now, but it's being thrown by crazy security equipment. And at some point the separate parts of this enterprise will be sold out, notice, in Borovets resort and will probably remain only the wire network with the sign, as the colleague said, the inscription of the enterprise itself. Is it normal for us to let that happen? Is it normal, given that perhaps the market value of this base, I suppose General Miho Mihov knows her very well and may take the floor to say more than I say, but is this base normal...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u107	This base is outside the subject of the debate today, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u108	This base is right in the subject of the debates, because it is an outstanding example, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u109	Give examples of the items included in the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u110	This is a visual example of how this bill focuses only on the property of a Ministry, and property, which is equally state-owned, is not at all taken into account, i.e. today I can safely ask myself the question: is this a service for someone who will take power to continue this vicious practice that we are talking about today? 'Cause that's what's gonna happen, guys. Therefore, I call between first and second readings, if we have time to adopt this Law, to approach responsibly and to include all these assets so that we can protect property. And when it starts to privatize, to fill the Silver Fund with funds to help Bulgarian pensioners. Here's what I want to tell you. The way it was responsible a few days ago and is under the Waste Management Act, and thanks to a constructive situation and with dialogue we returned 100 million to the budget and saved Bulgaria from an environmental disaster. It was easy to make fun of, to mock, but when the experts called and entered the dialogue, the right decision was reached. So this is my request and my appeal to you, honourable Members, and especially to the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u111	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. The vote tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. Coming up next: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ASSISTANCE AND THE STANDING OF THE GENERAL. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management Mr. Nenkov, we are listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 602-01-67, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 8 December 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, No 602-01-67, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 November 2016. The meeting of the committee was attended by Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Zdravko Zdravkov, Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality, Mrs. Silvia Hristova, Chairman of the Committee on Structure of the Area, Architecture, Accessible Environment and Housing Policy in Sofia Municipal Council, Ms. Lorita Radeva, Chairman of the Committee on Environment, Agriculture and Forests in Sofia Municipal Council, Mr. Borislav Ignatov, Chairman of the Board of the Chamber of Architects in Bulgaria, experts from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and from Sofia Municipality, representatives of professional and civic organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the political cabinet of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and Mr. Zdravko Zdravkov, Chief Architect of Sofia Municipality. The bill aims to solve recent socially significant problems in front of the structure and construction of Sofia Municipality and to remedy some legal and technical shortcomings in the texts in force. The investment pressure, which has a generally beneficial impact on the economy of the municipality, requires solving issues with the limit of eligibility for loading the territory with buildings in different areas of the capital, as well as ensuring the infrastructure necessary for their operation with the means of planning. The bill proposed changes related to the conservation of the green system of Sofia Municipality. A replacement of the framework programme for the implementation of the General Development Plan and the specialized programmes to it was proposed with the Municipal Development Plan, because in the practice of the implementation of the General Development Plan it is established that the municipal development plan in practice also performs the function of a programme for the implementation of the General Development Plan, which is an appropriate solution for the Sofia Municipality given its specific status between the other Bulgarian municipalities. An extension of five years has been proposed for the launch of the new use of the far-perspective territories. The cases in which the use of such territories is acceptable as well as the responsibilities and commitments of the municipality and investors are explained. Particularly important for the development of the city when applying the proposed requirement for the transport eligibility of specific constructions. The application of this provision requires a large-scale work on the creation of a transport model for the whole municipality and rules for the development of limited transport simulations of future traffic, which also requires the envisaged postponement period for the entry into force of this provision of one year. During that period, the municipality should entrust the development of a transport model and the implementing regulation to this requirement. The Sofia Municipal Council is scheduled to adopt a regulation on the urban environment that lays down rules and regulations for the face of buildings, architectural ensembles, as well as rules for determining the location of buildings. This is also related to the proposal, according to which the Sofia Municipal Council will be able to define areas with maximum permissible load with moving objects and promotional elements, as well as to introduce restrictions and bans for placing them. A number of other changes of a legal and technical and editorial nature have also been proposed relating to the clarification of separate provisions of the current law. The opinions presented by the representatives of the Chamber of Architects and the Union of Architects in Bulgaria were expressed in principle support to a large part of the proposed changes, while proposals for additions and clarification of individual provisions were also made. In the opinion of the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, a number of comments and proposals on the submitted project were made and objections were made to some of the texts related to the introduction of minimum and maximum indicators, the change in the regime of some of the green areas, the unjustified extension of the time limits for alienation and others. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes in principle. At the same time, attention was paid to the need to further refine individual provisions, as well as to dropping some of the proposed changes relating to the introduction of different alienation periods and their unjustified extension with the proposed changes, the introduction of an obligation for investors to build public infrastructure at their own expense and others. A disagreement was also expressed regarding the proposed change of land borders between Sofia Municipality and Samokov Municipality, as this is contrary to the Cadastral and Property Register Act and the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. In conclusion, there was confidence that between the two votes the contested texts would be refined and consensus would be reached to find the appropriate solutions necessary for them. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The importer can't argue because I don't see anyone in the room. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to you. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Lilkov, please welcome the first statement on the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few words before I get to the bottom of the law. This Law on the Construction and Construction of the Sofia Municipality on December 27th this year will be 10 years since it was adopted, and not once has it been amended, other laws have been amended that have been reflected in it, that is, it is a kind of record holder, it has not been touched 10 years, but now there is an attempt at a very substantial redesign and change of the Law. How much this Law is necessary in principle is another matter because it brings the capital before brackets in front of all the cities and introduces specific norms of building the city. I say that this Law is not in principle necessary because the General Planning Plan has a graphical part, there is a descriptive part, a framework programme, and all it has to do is implement the General Structure Plan and the Law on Structure of the Area in line with these programmes, and there will be no problem. But this Law is in fact related to the history of the old days, good or bad, we have it. Now, however, these changes that are being introduced into the Law change his philosophy to a very large extent. Colleagues, look, more art. 1 In the Law, what does it foresee? At the moment he provides that the Law treats basic indicators and norms of construction, and now what is proposed is to introduce a whole new objective of the Law, so to speak. The rules and specific rules of construction are dropped and replaced by municipal development plans. The general structure plan is not subject to specific rules and framework programmes adopted by the Council of Ministers, but is replaced by municipal development plans, which are in fact the budgetary part of the General Development Plan. By the way, I am opening a clamp here and I would like to tell you that until now the Sofia Municipal Council has not made an assessment and has not reported the implementation of municipal development plans since they started to apply. More than that! Sofia's general development plan has not once been discussed publicly in the Municipal Council and has not been discussed in the course of its implementation. I'm talking about the performance! Although even in the Rules of the Municipal Council there is such a norm that every year the first session of March is discussed the course of implementation of the General Planning Plan. If such a discussion is made, it will be seen how Sofia far, far away, has strayed from what is laid down in the General Planning Plan. And in my opinion, what is currently being proposed in the Bill is unacceptable. On the other hand, there is something very disturbing. It is written that for the central urban area the height of construction is without limitation, as long as the distances to neighbouring buildings are respected. Here we already have to answer a fundamental question: do we want skyscrapers in the center of Sofia? This is an important political issue. And with this Law, we give the opportunity to build buildings with no restrictions. That's also disturbing. In addition, the Law provides that when a draft amendment of the General Planning Plan by the Sofia Municipal Council is adopted, the general planning plan in force shall cease to be implemented. What do we do until this amendment project is adopted? In other words, we can work two and three years in a deviation of the rules of the adopted General Planning Plan. These are fundamental issues which, in my opinion, if we accept the bill, we will make a very big mistake. Of course, there are good things in the Bill. That the municipal council is obliged to adopt a Regulation on the urban environment is something I have appealed for, and something for which the municipal council has adopted a decision is another issue that is not being implemented. Moreover, there should be a regulation for urban design, not only for the urban environment adopted by the municipal council, which regulation should be implemented on a competition basis. Colleagues, there's something else positive. For the far-perspective territories, it is intended to be built when the main activities of building the basic infrastructure are carried out, i.e. not to allow what happened in the "Manastirsky meadows" in the "Krstovada" in other areas to be built, then to look for a way to build the basic infrastructure. That's good, but the things I was just talking about, namely the replacement of regulations and rules with municipal development plans, the eligibility to be built in the central urban area without restrictions, are very dangerous things and should not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Lilkov. - What's the line? The next speech is the public representative Radoslav Stoychev from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, first of all, I would like to say that I agree with the arguments Mr. Lilkov put forward. I think he rightly praised the things that are good in this Bill, and criticised those who at the same time were not good and would have a bad influence on the territorial structure of Sofia Municipality. There are a lot of good things in the proposed Bill amending the Law on Construction of Sofia Municipality and its construction. At the same time, I would like to say that, as a Member of the National Assembly from Sofia, I also objected to in the Commission that I am opposed to § 29 in the proposed Draft, which aims at the settlement of property borders and disputes between Sofia Municipality and Samokov Municipality. Disputes that are normally settled in court have Law on Cadastral and Property Register, Law on the management and use of agricultural land in which laws settle these disputes. We should not, by adopting this Law, set such limits and allow precedent in practice. Perhaps other municipalities, such as Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, would benefit from a similar way of solving their territorial borders, but we must bear in mind that above all and above all is the Law on Structure of the Territory. As Mr. Lilkov said, Sofia Municipality and the municipal council must comply precisely with this Law and with any additional laws governing the structure and territorial division of a municipality. Between first and second reading, we will propose changes to this Bill, namely a change in the wording of § 29, and we will keep the text for settlement of the borders between Sofia Municipality and Samokov Municipality. Dear Members of Parliament, with the adoption of this Bill, let us think about what we are doing and whether we are setting a precedent in the history of the structure in the territory of the municipalities?! As I said before, Mr. Lilkov mentioned that there are quite good proposals. Some of them we will support, make adjustments to other proposals related to the structure of Sofia Municipality. Between first and second readings, we will table proposals to amend this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoychev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. As former district manager of Sofia, you are in your matter. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u118	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, since the speech of colleague Stoychev was specifically focused on an issue that has its history, and it really concerns a dispute between municipalities, I would like to emphasise the following. If he's left with this conviction, it's completely false. Paragraph 29 in this version, in which it is given, and in paragraph 29 thereof. 7 contains a general description of the definition of the area of urban area by describing settlements that are included in the concept of the area of urban area. This does not concern that border dispute, which is between Sofia Municipality and rather the originator - the challenging municipality of Samokov. This enumeration shall not correct or resolve the dispute in question. You know that for more than 20 years, unfortunately, the dispute has not been resolved and between the two municipalities remains an area which is rather managed by the municipality of Samokov. The question of this governance is ultimately: what will be the consequences for individuals who, through one or other acts, are trying and helping to obtain rights from the particular dispute? Rest assured, this Law does not concern the problem in question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u119	Thank you. Second line? There aren't any. Mr. Stoychev's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, I hope that's not true. I will always have the doubt, I suppose, of my fellow Members that this is exactly what this bill aims to resolve. Regarding what Samokov municipality would do for the management of these properties, she proved it with her practice. There's nothing to comment on. Nevertheless, it would not be right with a bill that is not even a major one to settle disputes about inter-property borders. As a lawyer you know, they are decided in court and there are laws that govern these rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u121	Any other speeches, fellow Members? Mr. Alexander Nenkov of the Parliamentary Group of Party GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to be as brief as possible. The reasons for the submitted Bill, although the importers are not there, started from there, as you know that the last years in Sofia Municipality have been made a lot of investments for hundreds of millions, not to mention billions, which, of course, was favorable from the point of view of the economy and the economic power of the city, which is obvious to everyone. On the other hand, this clearly led to a very serious investment interest, especially in some parts of Sofia, where investments are really significant. A few months ago, the case in "Mladost" was a cause for serious tensions and demand of the intersection between the investor's interest and the civic interest of people who did not want to build up. Since we are still at the first vote and we do not need to enter the Bill with so much detail, but I believe that it is a step forward not only because, as my colleague Lilkov said, it has not been touched for 10 years and has its need for updating, but it is a step forward to defend the so-called green territories. Specially in the Bill is well described exactly what a green system is, because in the dispute and the common name of the green areas, it is somehow not everyone who gives an accurate assessment of what it is and what it is not a green area. Here, with this precision which has been tabled in the bill by importers, I believe that a good formulation is achieved of what a green system is, how to protect it. In this regard, it is very important to note that this is in the Bill and we have to go in this direction. The other great motive for the adoption of the Bill is that more powers are given to the Municipal Council by giving more functions to the Municipal Council, namely that it is being set up regulations relating to the municipal plan, which should actually be a function of the adopted General Development Plan. More transparency will be given if we assume that the Municipal Council is the most direct expressor of the will of the citizens. Certainly the adoption of such a regulation, as well as the regulation that will determine what the shape of the buildings will be, what will be architectural, to define such areas where there will be maximum construction from the point of view of moving objects, as well as the possibility of maximum restricted areas for placing promotional facilities. Although colleague Lilkov is most likely right about what he said that such regulations and such discussions from the point of view of the implementation of the Development Plan should have been there, but they were not there, this is not an obstacle to adopting such a Law, which would involve these even more serious functions of the Municipal Council. I think it will be a step forward on having more transparency, more publicity from the point of view of the implementation of the spatial plans. That's why we have to go this way. There are also good proposals for limiting construction. A novelty is introduced, namely the creation of transport schemes, especially for large buildings with public use, which are over 20 thousand. kv. m, which in the project must be together with a transport simulation.. how the construction of such a building and its use will affect the transport infrastructure, in general, on the movement around the building. Another thing I think is in the right direction. You said the skyscrapers. Here I will disprove you to some extent, because the Bill very accurately states that when there is a partial modification of the Detailed Planning Plan and when there is to be a building that is over 50 meters, there must certainly be a solution of the Municipal Council, with more than half of its members. Not from the quorum, but from its members. Any such building, which is embedded in the detailed planning plan, will pass through the Municipal Council and I think there will be maximum transparency there. After all the things I have said as an opinion in favour of the Bill, I appeal for its adoption because it is in the right direction. Of course, and in the opinion I read a little while ago, there were opinions of different branch organizations on the precision of some texts. Together with the branch organizations, with the representatives of Sofia Municipality, the importers will be able to complete the texts and adopt this Law. I cannot agree with Mr. Lilkov here, who said that Sofia does not need such a Law. On the contrary, I believe that the specifics, the size of Sofia city is very different compared to all other cities in the country and there should be such a Law. We need to try to make it as precise as possible so that we can find the right balance between public and public interest, which is already due to the development of the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u123	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nenkov, whenever you talk about local self-government, I listen carefully and respect your opinion. My proposal to all Members of the National Assembly is as follows. Let's take the good things proposed in this Law with regard to the green system, I just neglected to say, in terms of transport schemes for construction of such objects that burden infrastructure and territories. But let us first, Mr. Nenkov, together with those institutions that you mentioned, do an analysis together with the Municipal Council on the progress of the implementation of the General Development Plan of Sofia, let us analyze how the municipal development plans have been implemented so far. And you will see, Mr. Nenkov, as I have done this thing, Sofia has firmly deviated from its European vision and from what is enshrined in the Common Planning Plan. He's not bad, he's good. I voted for him. Of course, for the 2009 amendment, together with my colleague Kadiev, we had a particular opinion on But you will see that it is not being implemented, and therefore I urge you to take your time. Many of the MPs will also be in the next National Assembly. Let's have this serious discussion about how the planning plan is being implemented, where we have strayed. I'll tell you this. A few years ago, I asked the mayor a special question and asked: "How is the idea implemented in the Development Plan for the construction of secondary city centers? " - Do you know what answer I got? Do you understand the idea in the General Planning Plan for secondary urban centres and for the breakdown of the city, and for its easier functioning in the eyes of the administration and its understanding has become malls?! Can you do that?! Finally, you will probably come to the conclusion that I have come to: there is growth without development in Sofia. This will be the final assessment. Take your time, we're gonna get in trouble! To respond to investment interests, we'll ruin the urban environment. I would like to come here the mayor of Sofia or the chief architect and describe the simple vision of the city we are seeking. As Ivan Ivanov did 80 years ago and said: "Sofia must develop as a garden town, which orchestratedly disintegrates to the periphery. "And this was the simple vision he gave Musman to make the plan. We've done the opposite. We've circled it, we've increased construction to the periphery, and we've closed our city to nature. I can talk a lot more. My request is, if we want to do good to Sofia, to get the good things out of these proposals, but to call people who know about urban planning, there are not so many, and to talk to them about how Sofia should develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u125	Thanks for the line. Hole, Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Lilkov, I think today's debate is not related to your personal assessment of what the city looks like or not. I can't agree with the fact that the municipality almost left behind the green look you've been talking about over the years. A little more is, in my opinion, the subject of construction is being re-exposed because I think that Sofia, especially in recent years, has put a lot of effort, a lot of funds, and the Bill itself is in this direction to preserve these green systems. The city is perhaps, if not the most, one of the greenest capitals in Europe. Every colleague who had the opportunity to visit some other capital in Europe could see for himself. The other thing I cannot agree with you is that you are saying: "To analyze the way and what is the stage of development and implementation of Sofia's development plan. Even if you are right, it is not the National Assembly's job to do so, nor the parliamentary committees. Whether the plan is being implemented, at what stage is the whole work of Sofia Municipality. I do not think that we, as a legislative body, should see whether the proposals that we are voting as appropriate, will take a step forward in spatial planning, in regulating the public interest between investors and citizens. From there on, the implementation of the Law and of the plans depends entirely on the Sofia Municipality. You have been a city councillor for many years and you must be more familiar with what you said earlier, but it is not Parliament's job to do such an analysis. This is the work of the administration of Sofia Municipality, of the Municipal Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u127	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, outside the motives that are in the bill, and what my fellow Members have said, I would like to make one more thing clear. One of the reasons why we are looking at the proposal for amendments to the Law on Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality is the work of Sofia Municipality on the implementation of this Law and in particular the work of the specialized administration of urban planning and the construction of Sofia Municipality. There are a number of weaknesses that have led to this uncontrolled construction in Sofia, so that certain neighborhoods of the city look this way to me insanely. We are now facing the threshold of looking for legislative solutions to essentially try to limit the failures of the Sofia Municipality's previous policy relating to the construction of the city. Perhaps in our time the legislative restriction is the only mechanism that works because practice has shown that whatever other written rules there are, they allow to be circumvented in one way or another. I would like to state that if this Bill is adopted at first reading, we will make proposals between first and second readings. I will say the direction in which our proposals will be, as well as those who will have our support, since you have seen that there are a number of recordings that are disturbing to us and which do not allow us at first reading to support this bill. At the same time, we are aware of the state of the city, of the expectations that people have, and that the ball is currently being transferred from Sofia Municipality to Parliament, as our city is the only one to adopt the General Development Plan by Law. We must meet these expectations. Support will have these proposals that limit the sealing and construction of residential neighborhoods. Support from us at second reading will have these proposals that prohibit redeployment of green areas and keep them safe. Support will have such a type of provisions that bring order to the city. I give an example of the Regulation on urban environment, which must define the rules and regulations for the face of buildings in the capital. You see what the facades are like, you see what the state of our city is like. We desperately need to regulate this as well. At the same time, support will be given to those powers entrusted to the Municipal Council in the case of certain investment projects for certain areas in Sofia to prove transport and communication services, because we are witnessing how certain areas of the city have become extremely burdened. This largely made the living environment worse for people who live in these neighborhoods. It is necessary to prove this type of communication and transport service for all larger sites that are built in Sofia. There is no harm in the Municipal Council to rule on the spatial indicators such as height, density, building intensity for certain areas in the city. At the same time, however, no new administrative chaos or administrative obstacles should be allowed to be created in this activity in the capital. We will behave wisely in the debate in the Commission and in the vote at second reading, so that in view of the unfinished work so far on the implementation of Sofia's Common Constitutional Plan, we can try to do as far as we can in the competences of the National Assembly, it will be useful for the citizens. I agree with what was said here. Unfortunately, the major debtor in this debate is Sofia Municipality, and that we do not currently have an analysis of the implementation of the General Development Plan 2007 and its amendments since 2009. So far we have come here because most of the areas in Sofia still do not have planning plans, and all the deadlines for their approval laid down in the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality have expired. There were very clear commitments and very clear periods of conservation of green areas, which were also not fulfilled. Now once again, when a problem occurs, it goes as a problem to the National Assembly. The BSP Parliamentary Group will be guided by the interests of the majority of the capitalists. Where the records limit the sealing, the building, and they're for the conservation of the green areas, for the good form of our city, they'll get our support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u129	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Boychev, I am very sorry that you quite politicized the bill, which should be much more specialized. I believe that we, as MPs, do not have such a deep view of each of the changes proposed by the Council of Ministers. I want to ask you: what does the ridiculous appearance of the city of Sofia mean?! Mr. Boychev, do you remember that ten years ago, and for years no park was built, no boulevard was made, no estacade, no new gardens...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u131	The children's gardens had picked them up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u132	They took them in, privatized them. There was no ring road, no northern tangent. It wasn't all those improvements. A guarantee of what I say in my support is the huge investor interest. If you don't have these things, you won't have this investor interest. I cannot agree, and I would very much like you to tell me what you are referring to under the ridiculous appearance of the city. You live in it and you think it's ugly and that it no longer looks like a normal capital and a normal city?! I'm sure you have many acquaintances who work and live abroad. When they come back here, as well as my personal acquaintances and relatives, people who have not come for example in the last 6 years, when they come to the city, are amazed at how the city has changed with new infrastructure, new transport, ecologically clean. It's not just the subway! You are using all the goods of this city and you have no right to say that this is not good and that it is not developing in the right direction! I would very much like you to say what you mean by a ridiculous way of looking. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u133	The word for a line is Mr. Daniel Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, according to your application for the measures you will support in this bill, I am now calm, because in practice it turns out that you will support the entire bill. I would like to stress that the real, practical, effective for the first time, and for the first time, and with regard to this legal act, the municipal policy in the capital is being implemented to solve a welded, heavy problem with the restitutions in the properties, which I will not call them, are public municipal property, but they should have the character of public municipal property. And here, in order to comply with the meaning and meaning of what is being proposed, please make a difference: The 40th National Assembly imposed a moratorium on the district of Studentsky, which covered everything. Practically blocking legal life in a Student City, no matter which of the transactions were legal, which were illegal, which restitutions were correct, which were incorrect. Please note that this bill gives a correct legal outcome. The legislative step is being taken to arrange for the first time in more than 20 years the legal consequences................................................................................................. Colleague Lilkov will probably object, he will say: "This motto had it before, and we have promised as municipal councillors that we will compensate. Yeah, but we don't compensate. This bill gives practically the opportunity to do so. I could develop many details on this subject, which you know well, but my time is up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u135	Another line? Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Some old reflexes got excited by the municipal council. What I want to say to my colleague Boychev is that before we start discussing a change in the Law on Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, we need to do two other things. First of all, let's review how the common design plan is being implemented. Secondly, how municipal development plans are implemented and accordingly the political vision for the development of the city. There is a question before this: does this administrative division of Sofia Municipality correspond to the political vision that we have bet? Twenty-six years of Sofia Municipality is here I will use the word madly, insanely administrative device. The way Sofia Municipality is managed purely administratively does not meet the major political goals it has set in its strategic documents. That is why I am telling you: we need an analysis of all these issues before then, and then we need to think about amending paragraphs and paragraphs in the Law on Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. Colleagues, please understand that. I know it's not the National Assembly's business, but the municipal council, I assure you, does not have that capacity. Until now, he has not once discussed the course of implementation of the General Planning Plan, which will run out of its horizon in a few years. Not once has a municipal development plan been discussed, how it was implemented. And we are now adjusting to investor interest. Please, I say, the motto of Sofia today is: [[Noise, shout and lines from GERB.]] I can prove it. Think about what I'm saying! [[Replying and shouting.]] Look at the documents we've accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u137	Thank you. A hole, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't allow it, and I wouldn't politicize such a specialized law. I don't get away with what my colleague Lilkov said. He's right. Before we go to change anything in the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality, which is also Sofia General Development Plan, there are colleagues who know that it is the work of several hundred people, collectives, years of work. It was serious to do an analysis of his performance. So I took the liberty to say, Mr. Nenkov, that there are a number of things that are clearly recorded, established legal deadlines that the specialized administration of Sofia Municipality had to implement, one of which is the detailed planning and each individual important, vital activity in the city to be regulated. None of this has been done so far in the implementation of the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality. I didn't allow it, and I'm never gonna say it's not a good city. I said we allowed certain areas to become insanely built and developed. I think this is the objective assessment that shares every impartial citizen of the capital and a person who had to reside in some of these neighborhoods. You know how they were built, you know how infrastructure was built or rather not the infrastructure was built, at all such public and public needs in certain districts of Sofia are hardly available for citizens. With the idea of solving several problems that the capital administration currently has, we are faced with patching up the Law without opening the big talk about the state of the city from the adoption of the new General Planning Plan and are these the only changes that need to be made? However, this National Assembly is with little time until the end, I say again, we will be guided only by the interest of the citizens in examining the proposed changes. Expect us, where he dominates, to receive support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate on the current bill. I take advantage of the law of art. 69, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to announce the vote for tomorrow morning at 9:00. Moving on to the last item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION Importers: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 19 October 2016 There is a single report by the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mr. Nenkov, as they say, today is your day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, No 654-01-128, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Mr. Alexander Nenkov. The Bill proposes that the presidents of municipal councils and mayors, who were civil servants before their election, should take unpaid official leave for the time during which they hold the respective election position. In this way, they will be given the opportunity to take up their former post after their term of office as presidents of municipal councils or mayors. The proposed amendments to the Bill are supported by the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and by the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils. During the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes, expressing their views on the need to refine the texts proposed in the Bill. It has been noted that with regard to the mayors, as well as for all other electoral posts, Members of Parliament, President and Vice President and elected Members of the European Parliament, the matter is settled in the Election Code. In this regard, it is appropriate to settle the matter of the chairmen of municipal councils in a similar manner, and between the two votes of the draft it is necessary to align the proposed texts with the provisions of § 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 13 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u141	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and I do not see from the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u142	I'm an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u143	You're an importer? You want the word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a bill proposed by the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Presidents of Municipal Councils. We had a working group between almost all the parliamentary groups a few months ago, and we all united around putting in a bill like this. I am an importer, but also representatives from almost all parliamentary groups too. The bill covers civil servants, when elected presidents of municipal councils or mayors of settlements, to use the so-called unpaid leave. I also said in the Commission that I think two aspects should be considered. Assuming that the mayors who are elected, because it is majority choice, have a mandate of 4 years, there can be disputed whether it is necessary to have this thing or not, because they have much more serious sustainability in the next four years, we need to make a difference with the chairmen of municipal councils, as ultimately they depend entirely on the majority in the respective municipal council, there are many such cases where the presidents are elected for several months, then, you understand, the majority is changing and, accordingly, the chairman of the municipal council is also. In my opinion, it would be good to think about this with the agreement that, between the two readings and votes, if there are, of course, proposals, I would be happy to discuss them and find the right section, because, on the one hand, indeed this discrepancy and the possibility of a frequent change of the chairmen of municipal councils would be a particular problem and would not cause civil servants to occupy such positions. Since each of the political parties broadcasts during elections, especially for local self-government and local authorities, its candidates for local administration, for mayors and municipal councilors, we know very well how difficult it is to find suitable candidates with good education, with experience in different administrations or businesses. Therefore, such a measure would cause an ordinary civil servant to take this step, since he still knows that his place is guaranteed if things do not work out as at the beginning there was an idea. So this in various settlements where it is difficult to find suitable candidates, to make these people, as they have experience and expertise, be useful to local administration and to the settlements themselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u145	Thank you. We have heard from the report that the Commission's bill is supported unanimously. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate, fellow Members. This is where I take advantage of my rights under art. 69, para. 1, to announce that the vote on this bill will be tomorrow at the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-20.u146	Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's meeting, honourable Members. Tomorrow a regular session of parliament starting 9:00 a.m. I wish you a successful afternoon. [[PHONE RINGING]]
