ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] A proposal came in from Valeri Simeonov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front: Dear Madam President, in connection with the sudden death of Mr. Vanyo Tanov, Director of the Customs Agency, on the basis of art. 50, para. 7 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the plenary chamber of the National Assembly honor its memory with a one-minute silence at the meeting to be held on 2 March 2016, that is to say today. The Conference of Presidents has also been informed. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we were suddenly left by the Director of the Customs Agency. We will remember him as a worthy and honorable man, an undisputed professional, committed and consistent in our work. He gave strength and energy to strengthen the European principles and practices in Bulgaria. Please, with a moment of silence, honor his memory. [[Everyone's getting straight. One-minute silence.]] We were left to vote yesterday on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. The vote was scheduled by the Presidency for today on the basis of art. 69 of our Rules. I put to the vote the bill, which is under No 502-01-92 and is tabled by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015. Vote 155 MPs: 132, none, abstention 23. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, submitted to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015, was adopted on the first vote. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, allow me to present to you a Project for the National Assembly Work Programme for 2 March 2016. Proposals of the parliamentary groups under the order of art. 50. ) (a.k.a. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: First in a row is the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Ataka" and it proposes a draft decision to condemn the genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire in the period 1396. It was introduced by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. Next in a row is the Parliamentary Group of Alternative for Bulgarian Revival, from which a group has not received a proposal. We also do not have a proposal from the political party GERB. A proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and a group of MPs on 14 October 2015 should be included as a second item. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Next is the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, from which there is no proposal received. A proposal from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group to include the First Voting of a Bill amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act as a third item. The representatives of the National Assembly are Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 27 November 2015. Following is the order of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and of the Bulgarian Democratic Center, from which we do not have any proposals. As a fourth point in our Programme Project, we are proposing the First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation of Victims of Crime. The Fifth Point of the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2016. The sixth point of Article 6 (d) shall be the control referred to in Article 4 (2) (a) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulations (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and (EC, It's scheduled for today at 12:00. Please vote on the draft programme in its part to be voted on, points 4, 5 and 6. They voted 149 MPs: 131, none, abstention 18. Our program has been accepted. A proposal has been made under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by Prof. Svetla Bachvarova MP from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the First Voting of the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Arenda Act, No 554-01-52, of 13 March 2015 should be included on the agenda of the National Assembly. Importers are Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova, state your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We also propose that the amendments to the Landing Act be considered on the agenda of Parliament. As has been mentioned, the bill on the lease of BSP left Bulgaria was submitted to parliament on 13 March 2015, with what we propose related to the number of problems that appeared especially after 2007 regarding the implementation of the Law. I would like to remind you that the Law itself was adopted in 1996, as one of the bases and possibilities for development of land relations and stabilisation of contracts which create prerequisites for stable agricultural production, but after 2007, when we received European support, and per unit of area, there were extremely many problems that the protection of agricultural land owners was not ensured. You know that according to the procedures that were introduced, Bulgaria has restored ownership of the agricultural land of two million Bulgarian citizens, respectively with the heirs they are much more. At this time, these owners are creating difficulties and problems in solving the issues related to the management of contracts. In practice, in many areas of the country we have problems related to feudalizing those who manage and manage the land. Therefore, our proposal is to discuss this Law, to allow rent relations in Bulgaria to develop, but with equality between owners of agricultural land and also between those who hire them. I hope with the discussions in Parliament, because in the committees they have passed, that a legal framework will be established to ensure the possibility of equality in these relations, which are the most severe at present in the agricultural sphere in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u3	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. I put to the vote the proposal to include the item on the agenda, namely the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Landing Act, No 554-01-52, submitted by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and a group on 13 March 2015. They voted 149 MPs: for 73, against 7, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. You've got procedure. Come in, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u4	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u5	They gave the procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u6	We've given another procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u7	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u8	You have the floor, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u9	Mr. Chairman, please, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to extend the deadline for proposals by MPs under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November 2015, with another seven days or 14 days in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u10	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Diana Yordanova to extend the deadline by another seven days or a total of 14 days for proposals on the initial draft vote in today. Vote 146 MPs: 137, against 4, abstention 5. The deadline for proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners is 14 days. Mr. Kirilov, and you want the procedure.....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like an extension of the deadline for submitting proposals between the first and second readings of the bill adopted last week at first reading to amend and supplement the Penal Code with importer Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs to the maximum possible under the Rules, i.e. by three weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u12	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov to extend the deadline for proposals under the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code to the maximum possible, i.e. one month or four weeks as soon as possible. Vote 152 MPs: 142 against 7, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. I appeal to you that in the previous vote you were rushed and we failed... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u14	Please be quiet in the hall! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u15	In the previous vote, you very quickly stopped looking at the left side and failed to request a re-vote. The importance of the problem and the fact that some Members have failed to vote do not diminish the issue. Please, when you know what this is about, look more at the left-hand side so that we can make a procedural proposal for revoting and other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I barely take a look at the left side. I think I'm slow enough and calm enough to lead the meeting. It's also a matter of your reaction. It wasn't trendy. Messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 24 February 2016 to 1 March 2016: On 24 February, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act was adopted. They are: Menda Stoyanova, Danail Kirilov, Georgi Kovachev, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Yordan Tsonev and Petar Chobanov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On February 25th, a bill was introduced to amend and supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers are Daniel Kirilov, Peter Slavov, Christian Mitev, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Lazarov and Yavor Haytov. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. Also on February 25, 2016 a draft decision for giving consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was received. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 26 February 2016, an Annual Report on the Commission's activities on the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest for 2015. The Commission is the importer for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest. The report is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics. On 1 March 2016, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted. The importer is Ivan Valkov, together with a group of MPs. It is yet to be allocated to a committee responsible. On 1 March 2016, a Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act was adopted. The importer is Georgi Kadiev. Once again, we are about to allocate a leading committee. Decision No 143 of 25 February 2016 on the file No 403 of the Commission for Protection of Competition, which adopted a sectoral analysis of the markets for the production and realization of petrol and diesel. On the basis of the sectoral analysis, the KPC has initiated proceedings to establish possible infringements under art. Article 15 21 of the Law on Protection of Competition and Art. 101 and 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The material is provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. It is also available electronically on the website of the Commission for Protection of Competition. On 1 March 2016, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 March 2016 to 31 March 2016 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 1 March 2016 to 31 March 2020. No 633-00-01 was received by the National Assembly by the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 21 January 2016. "25 February 2016 and Protocol No 11 of a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Budget and Finance Committee. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the 2015 Ministry of Culture's programming budget and a Report on the implementation of the programming budgets as of 31 December 2015 of the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks. The reports are made available to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Assembly received material from the National Statistical Institute, containing results of statistical research on the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic and international market prices for January 2016, business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in February 2016. The material is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. They've finished the messages I was supposed to introduce you to. Moving on to today's agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO DISCLOSURE GENOCIDE AGAINST BULGARIAN IMPERIA (1396 He's in. No 4540-02-7, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Krasimir Velchev. You have the floor, dear Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Decision on the Condemning of the Genocide of the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire (1396), No 454-02-7, submitted by Mr. Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. At a regular meeting held on 18 December 2014, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed the draft decision on the condemnation of genocide against the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire (1396), No 454-02-7, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Milena Ivanova, Senior diplomatic officer in the Directorate of Human Rights and Human Rights at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Atanas Slavov, Advisor to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Daniela Belchina, State Expert in the Directorate of Justice, Normality and Projects at the Ministry of Justice, and Mr. Svetozar Filipov from the Foundation of Bulgarian Monasteries and Churches. On behalf of the importer The draft decision was presented by the MP Stanislav Stanilov. According to the motives of the importers, the civilized world recognized the holocaust of the Jews in the German Reich, most of the modern countries recognized the genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, but no one, even the Bulgarian state itself, has acknowledged, through their institutions, the genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire. It is expressed: first, in the physical destruction and mass killings of a large number of Bulgarians, in a change of religion (the value system), respectively a change of ethnicity of an extremely large number of Bulgarians and in the exhaustion of the genefund of Bulgarians with the so-called blood tax; second, in the restructuring of the Bulgarian community in the lower class of the empire with limited rights and excessive obligations, the destruction of the medieval culture of Bulgaria and the annulment of the European Renaissance for the Bulgarians. The crimes against the Bulgarians are condemned by European and Russian politicians, public figures, intellectuals and public organizations, which is duly documented. The proposed draft decision of the National Assembly to recognise the genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire (1396 is an attempt to stop the destruction of Bulgarian identity as part of the identity of the peoples of Southeast Europe. The extremely difficult historical fate of the Bulgarians cannot be denied, as the consequences of it continue to plague the modern development of the Bulgarian society. Mr. Stanilov recalled that the same draft decision was submitted and examined in both the 41st and the 42nd National Assembly and was rejected by a large number of abstentions. Representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stressed that genocide was codified as a crime under international law in 1948, with the adoption of the UN Convention on the Persecution and Punishment of Crime genocide. The Convention entered into force in January 1951 and has effect in the future, i.e. for events that took place after its entry into force. It has no retroactive effect on events that occurred before 1951. In its opinion, the Ministry of Justice accepts that the submitted draft decision contains moral and political assessments and therefore cannot be provided with a legal and expert assessment of historical events. Even if it is formally adopted, such a decision will not have legal significance. In the course of the discussion, opinions were expressed both in support of the draft decision and against it. The majority of the Members of the National Assembly expressed their opinion that for the modern moral and political interpretation of events of national and especially geopolitical importance is necessary not only public but also historical consensus. There is a need for expert opinions and discussions between historians, lawyers, politicians and scientists. It was also expressed that the adoption of the draft decision would be a moral act to the Bulgarian people by the MPs. An agreement was expressed with the opinions of the two ministries and opinions were shared that it is not right for the National Assembly to deal with historical facts and to assess historical events that took place in Bulgaria in its recent or distant past. Following the debates held and the opinions expressed on the draft decision Committee on Religions and Human Rights, with 4 votes.......................................................... and 9 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. On behalf of the importers you have the floor, Mr. Siderov, to present the draft solution.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u19	Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. You're very kind to give me the floor. I will not forget your fellowship and human attitude. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! For the sixth time we propose in this National Assembly today our proposal for recognition of genocide against the Bulgarians during the Ottoman Empire. We propose the date of May 17 to become the day for honor to the destroyed Bulgarians, as well as to assign the government to build a memorial complex in a suitable place in the center of the capital. Since Mr. Velchev read part of the decision to condemn genocide, I will read the decision itself, then the reasons. I'll read them verbatim. You know, I don't usually read when I go out on this stage. This time I'll read like everyone else does. The National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria appreciates the policy of the Ottoman Empire as genocide against the Bulgarians and on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. Announces May 17 (the day of the massacre in Batak) for a day of worship to the victims of genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire and entrusts the Bulgarian government to build a memorial complex in a suitable place in the capital. 2. The listed historical crimes cannot be minimized and denied in public documents, in spoken and written words by state and private media, in textbooks and teaching aids. I will also read you the reasons why we are making this decision: The situation of the Bulgarian people is documented, not only by historical facts, but also by works of Bulgarian culture and art. The beginning of the spiritual life of modern Bulgarian society is based almost entirely on the ideas of the Renaissance, Liberation of Bulgarians and the restoration of our country. Through the denial and oblivion of the biggest blow ever struck on the Bulgarian community, the motive for its future actually disappears. Information about the crimes committed is also provided by the perpetrators themselves. Official and personal Ottoman documents from the period of conquest on the Balkan Peninsula testify to large massacres in the conquered cities and fortresses, after which, the rest of the living are sold into slavery or forcibly migrated to Asia Minor and lost their ethnocultural identity. The analysis of Turkish tax registers shows that in the 15th century of the Bulgarian lands 2600 settlements disappeared, the rural population decreased by 560 000 people, and the urban population by 90 000 people. The sum of 680 000 represents 43.5% of the entire Bulgarian community, which inhabited Southeast Europe at the end of the 14th century. Mr. Tsvetanov, listen, please! This applies to Bulgarian history. The entire elite class and the elite culture of Bulgarians has been completely destroyed, which brings an irreparable blow to their identity and legitimacy in Europe. The subsequent centuries of Turkish slavery continue to cause exceptional damage to the biological and ethnocultural structure of the Bulgarians. Throughout all Turkish slavery are held forced, with economic or physical threat, the destruction of Bulgarians, individual and mass, in which many others lose their lives. From 1395 to 1705 they were taxed by the tax............................that every 3.5 or 7 years one in every five boys from the Christian families in the empire is taken away. In this way, generations of Bulgarian children were introduced into the Turkish administrative and military system, where they were crushed and thus, forever lost to the Bulgarian ethnicity. According to the Sultan's orders were taken the smartest, the most beautiful and the best, which means that the empire sucks out of the Bulgarian ethnicity the best part of the genofund. The losses of the Bulgarian society increased due to the massive exoduss in lands not under Turkish rule. Some of the exoduss were provoked by Turkey's constant wars against Austria and Russia, as well as by Serbian and Greek independence uprisings in the 19th century. Where the displaced Bulgarians were not a compact mass, they dissolved in the foreign ethnic environment and thus remained completely lost to the Bulgarian nation. This process is a continuation of the destruction of the Bulgarian community in the Ottoman Empire. New victims give the Bulgarians in the riots and uprisings against the Turkish tribulation. The April Uprising in 1876 was particularly cruel when the brutal slaughter of the Bulgarian civilian population of Batak, 17 May, stunned not only all Bulgarians, but also provoked the outrage of the entire world public. Even the creation of the free Bulgarian state does not end the genocide over the Bulgarians of the Ottoman Empire. During the 1903 Ilinden-Preobrajian uprising and after it, during the Balkan wars of 1912-1913 by the regular Turkish army and the armed Muslim militia (bashibozuk) were killed over 150 000 and more than 500,000 Bulgarians were banished from their lands in Macedonia, Asia Minor, Eastern and Western Thrace. The moving and real estate of the forcibly displaced Bulgarians was destroyed or seized by the Turkish authorities. You know that Turkey still owes more than 10 billion. dollar compensation only for the stolen properties in Eastern Thrace. A brief chronicle of evil in 1913 alone looks like this: - July 2 in the village of Bulgarkoi 1100 women and children and 350 men were killed; - July 8 in the village of Enice the entire population was killed; - July 9 in Adrianople 521 Bulgarians were killed, previously beaten with iron poles and cut with knives; - July 10.. all captured inhabitants (unknown number) of the village of Mustafa Pasha (now Svilengrad) were killed in the slaughterhouse for animals. The teacher Grandpa Vauvarov is beheaded along with the mother of the priest Slav... Mrs. Karayancheva, don't laugh at these tragic pages.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u20	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u21	How can you laugh when I read tragic pages of Bulgarian history? That's cynical!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u22	Mr. Siderov, please continue. I ask for order in this Chamber and respect for the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u23	All women have been dishonored in the village of Osmanli; - September 13 in the village of Devedere 80 men, women and children are tortured, raped and killed for 3-4 days; - September 23rd - in the village of Arnautkoy 75 people were killed and most women were cut off and 13 of the children were between 1 and 9 years old. More sadistic murders have been reported during the period. In the village of Gyotchki Bunar 40 people were burned alive in the Chitalishte, 400 women and children were raped four or five days by the regular army and Bashibozuk. 90 people were killed in the village of Chernichevo from 1 to 80 years of age. In the village of Pokrovan 20 people were killed with bayonets, 45 were shot, women and children were tortured in three large houses. The bodies are on fire in the church. 42 people were killed in the village of Huhla. The church was bombed. The village is burned. In the village of Gorno Ibriyuren, a regular army kills 52 people. In Dedeagachko, Gyumurdzhinsko, where 18 thousand Bulgarian Christians and five thousand Bulgarian Muslims lived, there were terrible massacres against the two communities of the regular army dressed as Bashibozuk. A refugee column of 12,000 people was exterminated on site, and previously, by eyewitness testimony, the eyes of living people were pulled out, thrown half alive into wells. During the crossing of the Arda River, about two thousand mothers with children were shot and drowned. Some 800 people were killed in the Armagan Valley, mainly women and children. In Western Thrace, several thousand more Bulgarians were killed, mainly women, children and old people. 22 Bulgarian villages were burned. The crimes against the Bulgarians are condemned by European, American and Russian politicians, public figures and intellectuals, public organizations, which is duly documented. The proposed Project for a decision of the National Assembly to recognise the genocide over the Bulgarians in the Ottoman Empire? 1396? 1913, is an attempt to stop the destruction of the Bulgarian identity as part of the identity of the peoples of Southeast Europe. The extremely difficult historical fate of the Bulgarians cannot be denied, as the consequences of it continue to plague the modern development of the Bulgarian society. The civilized world recognized the holocaust of the Jews in the German Reich, most of the modern states recognized the genocide over the Armenians in the Ottoman Empire, but no one, not even the Bulgarian state itself, has recognised the genocide over us, the Bulgarians, through its institutions, in the Ottoman Empire. We believe that this injustice must be abolished and there is no better date than today's date, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, as tomorrow is March 3rd
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Filipov. We have a request for a statement from Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we postpone the examination and vote on the proposed Decision, as we have seen that there is no full agreement. I propose that we examine it first in the Committee on Foreign Policy by inviting scientists-historists, scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and reaching an acceptable proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u26	You're suggesting a reverse opinion? Mr. Karakachanov, are you proposing that the debate and the vote be postponed?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u27	I'm making a reverse offer. There's nothing to delay for 25 years. We can't delay our dignity as a nation, and we can't...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u28	Why 25 years?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u29	I've been talking for twenty-five years. Twenty-five years, Mr. Atanasov, this topic of 500 years of Turkish slavery is placed under the carpet. That's what I mean by "25 years." That's what I mean! So we can't keep procrastinating. After all, it is parliament that will decide. Now again in the Commission this proposal is from November, it is not the first one, it was proposed by me and other colleagues, and by Ataka. There's nothing to delay this question. One conversation on the subject is not unnecessary at all, and I do not see why we should postpone it on the principle: putting it off................................................................................... There's no way we can close this page until we're done talking about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Kancho Filipov to postpone the debates and vote on our proposed item on the agenda. Please vote. Vote 152 MPs: 105... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u31	We failed with the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u32	Which one of you couldn't vote? You didn't get a vote when you were sitting there and I asked a minute ago... [[Noise and lines.]] We've suspended the vote! Vote 152 MPs: 105, against 42, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. See if Mr. Bayraktarov was able to vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u33	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u34	Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov, you failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want a re-voting procedure. I didn't get a vote. What's more, colleagues...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u36	That's enough. You didn't ask for a procedure. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u37	Wait a minute. It's a shame to postpone such a vote. It's embarrassing!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u38	Please vote. Vote 159 MPs: 110 against 46 abstentions 3. The motion is accepted. It's the way it's supposed to be. First Professor. Stanilov, then who's next? The next one can be prepared in the manner of conduct. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u39	Mr. Glauchev, please don't make fun of the National Assembly! I also asked you for the word in the manner of conduct, and you should have given it to me after Mr. Bayraktarov. You pretended not to see me. Second...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u40	He wanted a re-vote, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u41	Please don't interrupt me when I'm talking. Then you'll say something. You're not a mentor! The National Assembly is not a infantry company! You can't do that. You can't do that! [[Noise and lines.]] Don't yell at me, guys! Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Is this a National Assembly? What is it? Or is it a convention? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u42	Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you and the entire leadership of the National Assembly... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u44	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u45	Our Project Decision has been introduced six times, and what does that mean that we are now going to see it in the Foreign Commission?! That's the first one. The second, Mr. President, especially to you: when you sit in this seat behind me, you are the first among equals and you have no right as such to interrupt the MPs. For this reason, I appeal to the entire management of the National Assembly: very well look at all the proposals. Having passed through a committee, it is unacceptable for me to request that it be returned to the Foreign Commission, regardless of the political transactions currently taking place in the Chamber by telephone from the chairman of one group to another group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u46	Thank you. I strictly adhere to the rules. [[Loud noise and lines.]] If you turn the tape back, you will see that Mr. Bayraktarov asked for a re-vote, not in the way of conduct. And then I gave it to professor immediately. Stanilov's word in the manner of conduct, then Mr. Alexandrov's. [[Heckling]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. This is a proposal from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria on the basis of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.. propose that the first reading of the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, No 554-01-165 of 14 October 2015 be included on the agenda of the National Assembly on 2 March 2016. Importers are Dragomir Stoynev and a group of MPs. This is a continuation because the report of the committee responsible has been read. Now there's a presentation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there should be two more reports on two more committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u48	No reports have been submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u49	You mean, since October 14th, both committees haven't had time to look around?! [[Noise and lines.]] No, I didn't! Now I remember: the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports has been watching the Bill. And that's where I introduced him and defended him. What do you mean, no report? How is it that the Budget and Finance Committee of 14 October has not yet found time to deal with the Bill concerning Bulgarian children?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u50	Mr. Stoynev, you have the floor for the presentation of the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u51	I just don't get it. Are we really in the National Assembly? Are there rules? Is there a rule that needs to be followed? And this is indeed unacceptable: from October 14th, we have proposed a bill that is not seen in committees. Yes, and I don't understand what you're afraid of, colleagues. Here it is about increasing the compensation for raising children from 1 to 2 years of all these 39 thousand working Bulgarian mothers who pay their taxes, which are provided and this compensation to be equal to the minimum wage. You couldn't say, "Yes, we accept or reject it." Or you don't care at all if we have the biggest demographic collapse in Europe, that Bulgaria is the nation that disappears the fastest without a war without an epidemic. And when we have to show attitude to Bulgarian mothers, to Bulgarian families, we de facto do not even bother to examine this bill in the Commission for four months. Or someone should come out and disprove it and say it's not right. Because when I was defending this bill...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u52	You're two minutes out of the way, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u53	No, I understand you, but, Mr. Glauchev, agree that it is not normal for a major priority not to be of the leading political power, because already people understand that when BSP manages the benefits are raised and GERB freezes them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u54	Mr. Stoinev, I'm going to take your word for it in the manner of conduct! Will you present the bill? I take it this was a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you are to present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u55	Thank you, but please agree that this is not normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u56	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u57	One bill at a time, when our country is in a severe demographic crisis, we do not have a report, and it is by a leading committee, one of the leaders, such as the Budget and Finance Commission! However, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, this bill really aims to put in place an order on child benefit from 1 to 2 years. This is about Bulgarian mothers who regularly pay their taxes and insurance. These mothers have contributed, and almost roughly, have insured themselves for this happiness and when their child reaches 1 to 2 years of age, they can receive the minimum wage. Always until this time when BSP has managed, whenever the minimum wage is increased and when it was the government of Plamen Oresharski, twice the minimum wage, this compensation increased twice. GERB, however, when they manage, Borisov's first cabinet is freezing all social payments. In the second cabinet, we support the increase of the minimum wage, but at the same time we also need to show attitude towards the Bulgarian families. And that is why we propose, instead of freezing this compensation again, that you equalize it to the minimum wage. Moreover, I remember when I presented the Bill, colleagues from GERB said to me: The World Bank does not allow us to bind this compensation to the minimum wage. Well, you like to be told from the outside what you should do and possibly listen to the World Bank, only then one of your MPs said: We also suggested that in absolute value this compensation be equal to BGN 420. What happened? And then you rejected it. With your unwillingness to watch the Bill, with your unwillingness to raise this compensation, you de facto tell the Bulgarian mothers and the Bulgarian people: You are not a priority for us, get better, watch your children, but the Bulgarian children are not a priority! I believe that here we must have a united position, whether we are on the left, on the right or on the center. This is about Bulgarian children! These kids don't vote. These children want the state to have a bearing on them, and the least we can do is really raise that compensation. Moreover, the Bulgarian mothers were also at a protest, only you do not hear them, because maybe they are not strong, they are unable to block roads, they cannot fight the police, they want peacefully and peacefully You're leaving them behind, ignoring them, but now that there's a police protest ahead, you're already shivering about what's gonna happen. Why? Why, given that it is, according to our estimates, approximately 19 million. lv.? So we can draw 16 billion debt, we can use it for all kinds of infrastructure projects and whatnot or, rudely speaking, for large public procurements with a vague purpose. This is especially true of the health care where this minister does not know who keeps it, but he makes a public procurement after public procurement, and, of course, the big infrastructure projects and, when it comes to the children of Bulgaria, and I repeat, for those mothers who have contributed to the social security system, let there be order at least once and for all and every government that comes to power, know that when increasing the minimum wage, for the Bulgarian children the compensation will be equal to this minimum wage. It is a matter of once and for all we to bring order, because it is not normal for people to sit and wait, when BSP comes to power, to raise this compensation, and when they are GERB, to really freeze it. It's nice that you freeze it. Thank God you're not slowing it down! Ladies and gentlemen, when we are still waiting for Minister Kalfin to present his measures for the demographic crisis, we are still waiting for a decision of the National Assembly to be implemented, we are all talking about short-term and long-term measures, and we are not talking about a strategy that is large to read, which is yet another strategy, but to really tell us from here in two years the compensation is increased or supported in any way by young families. We have almost a few words, some fairy tales that will in no way improve the condition of Bulgarian families. And I say again, this bill is really important. It is a pity that GERB has such an attitude towards it that they do not respect the opinion of Bulgarian mothers, that even the Commission allows itself not to look at it, another Commission that has looked at it is also allowing it not to write a report that can be read here. This is scandalous to me personally, but clearly shows your attitude towards Bulgarian children. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u58	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Before I opened the debate, Mrs. Dukova wanted to conduct herself. You've been giving signals since the previous point that this is going to happen. Mrs. Dukova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make you a sharp remark on the indistinct attitude towards the high tone of my colleague. And to ask him: In the Sorbonne, do they teach you to make speeches and arguments from the tribune? [[strong noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP LB]] who are not noticed by the President,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u60	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u61	...with a loud scream and sign gestures?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u62	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u63	She's developing a thesis on my indifference. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u64	It struck me, Mr. Chairman, what my colleague said that we at GERB are shaking. My memory is very close. Who was shaking from the white bus?! [[Loud noise and lines from BSP LB.]] A loud tone doesn't mean a strong argument! I'm asking you to make some remarks! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Just because I'm verbally not interfering doesn't mean I'm emotionally unrelated to the subject. [[Laughter and excitement from GERB.]] I'm just keeping my cool and my cool. Thank you. Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor to speak on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Patriot Front Group will support this bill. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] There are far more serious motives than those which Mr. Stoinev put forward in his opinion. Dear colleagues, the official declared poverty threshold in Bulgaria is BGN 300. I suppose many of you understand that with 350 leva. It is difficult to raise a child between one and two years of age. I think even the accounts that colleague Stoinev outlined about 19 million are not that much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u67	Annually.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u68	They're not that many a year because it's less than 50,000 kids. If we subtract from that 50 grand and the mothers who go back to work, the exact number is about 20,000 children, or we're talking about about about 9 million. lv. Nine million leva are not a huge amount for the Bulgarian state to help raise Bulgarian children. There shouldn't even be a debate here, because this measure should have been taken long ago. You know, I keep saying that nothing has been done about this for years. The minimum wage will be increased from 1 July 2016 to 420 BGN. Even they are insufficient to help Bulgarian mothers, and here, if I have to include another argument, we are talking about young people. Colleagues, youth unemployment in Bulgaria, unfortunately, is still at a very high level. It varies between 23 and 28%, in some areas goes already more than 40%, and here we are talking about young people who even want to go to work, there is no way to realize and at the same time have to raise children. So my appeal, culturally and politely to all Members of the National Assembly, is to support this Bill because it makes sense for the state to finally look with a face to the Bulgarian mothers, to raise the future of the state, and these are our children. I would like to stress here that it is, however, about the people who worked before going on leave to raise a child, they paid insurance, they paid taxes, and then, at their request, I repeat, they decide whether to continue this leave for a second year to raise a child, which is the future of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u69	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? There are no lines to you. Next statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A simple addition to the Social Security Code we have imported with the MPs Stoynev, Merdjanov and Dobrev, but it is fully supported by the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. It is also supported by our entire society, by the mothers who went to protests in December and January before the National Assembly. Few of you MPs have gone out to talk to mothers, to see what they want, what they are excited about, what their problems are and to hear how with 340 BGN, at a poverty threshold of 300 BGN, a small child is raised. I'm saying it's a simple proposal because we're trying to tie the compensation to the mothers who raise their children from 1 to 2 years of age to the size of the minimum wage. Why are we doing this? We are doing this because from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria we are consistent in our policy towards Bulgarian mothers and Bulgarian children, and people see it, and the children understand it. They run socialists, raise social payments. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] They are tied to the minimum wage to take account of the dynamics in the economy. Coming to power GERB, untie them from the minimum wage and freeze them at levels reached by the Socialists. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This has become so simple and clear for the Bulgarians that I do not know why they still vote for the political party GERB?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm saying you're also completely consistent in freezing. This is not very positive, but it is a fact, because a whole mandate from 2009 to 2013, you did the same: you froze these benefits at the levels achieved by the previous management. Now, for the second year in a row, with a second budget, you are doing the same again: you have frozen them at the levels reached by the Oresharski cabinet. The compensation is already falling behind the amount of the minimum wage with 80 BGN. I ask myself: why do you deprive Bulgarian mothers, especially their children, the future of the nation, of BGN 960. A year of funds that can bear the cost of, for example, their child's food? I have no answer, but I appeal to you: do not make us accomplices in this crime! We submitted the proposal for this change and for the commitment to the minimum wage even before the examination of the State Budget Act and the Budget Act of the IPO in October of last year. Then you didn't accept it. Then we proposed when adopting the budget for state social security the benefit of the insured mothers for raising a young child in the second year of maternity from January 1, 2016, without being tied to the minimum wage, to become equal to it: BGN 420. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] We explained where the money would come from. Again, you did not accept it, without motives, without thinking about the future, led only by your view of fiscal stability at any cost, or simply put, with the simple motive there is no money! And otherwise, you're borrowing $16 billion. Both our children and our grandchildren will pay for it. But which children and grandchildren will pay them I do not know, because in the near future they will not remain as they catastrophicly reduce the number of children every year from your management. Now, on several occasions, it is good that there is such an opportunity in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. We propose to legally bind the amount of compensation for raising a child from one to 2 years of age to the size of the minimum wage. We do so with the clear thought that this is not social assistance, but compensation for mothers who have conscientiously and responsibly provided for this event - the birth of a child, and when it does, they are waiting for an adequate attitude of the state towards them, with an expectation of adequate compensation. Moreover, as the minimum wage rises, the revenues in the state social security budget are also raised. That's where you predicted that more 8.5 million would come in with his admission. BGN, and you retain the benefits at the levels of 2014. The mothers who will receive it were on employment contracts and regularly paid their insurance, so we owe them this change. We are making this proposal because, as a result of its implementation, security and predictability will be introduced in terms of the amount of benefits, it will end with the practice of subjective determination by those in power and acting according to their moods and views on the subject. We will allow mothers and families to better plan their expenses and receive additional support for raising children in a family environment, not to fight with you every year to get what is due to them because they have been provided. We are making this proposal because the amount of this compensation will be fixed permanently in the legislation and it will be in line with the economic dynamics in the country. According to national statistics, I do not want to enter into a dispute with Mr. Bayraktarov or with anyone else, the number of insured persons receiving child benefit from 1 to 2 years of age is about 39,000 mothers. The additional contribution to the public social security budget needed to implement this change is, in my opinion, 37 million. lv. However, no matter what the amount is, it is negligible and one such amount can be secured without any budget corrections. Dear Members of Parliament, support our proposal, because I would like to say it is timely, but it is not. It's late. It is late because of your stubbornness and disinterest with the demographic problems of Bulgaria. It will not solve these problems because they are complex and they need complex measures to solve them, but it will give a breath of air to people who in difficult times have decided to give birth and raise children. It will help Bulgarian mothers and families. Thank you for your attention and I hope you will support our proposal. I am waiting for the MPs from the parliamentary groups of the Patriotic Front, of the Bulgarian Democratic Center and of Ataka. I am particularly looking forward to the MPs from the ABB Parliamentary Group because it is not enough to claim that you are a left-wing political party. You have to at least once in a while prove it with action. And what better moment than now to show this with today's vote that you are a left-wing party?! Thank you for the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. I expect your support. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here's your first line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Gyokov, I deliberately do not take personal explanation, but I do not know what your expectations are, provided that I clearly and categorically stated that the group of the Patriotic Front will support this Law. What expectations do you have more?! At least be correct in your speech. Secondly, we do not need cheap political populism on this subject. You could simply, clearly and briefly address Miss Svetlana Angelova and ask her as a representative in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy why she would not support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u73	It's Madame.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u74	You could simply and plainly address the Chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy Mr. Hassan Ademov and ask him why he would not support the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u75	You can list them all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u76	At least let some debate happen. There's a debate on that. There's no need for political populism. We do not help Bulgarian mothers with populism. I hope you understand. Once again, I say clearly and categorically that the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u77	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Second line. "The People's Representative Mariana Todorova."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, you are not the one who will demand and will set the criteria for the left of ABB. We're proving it with policies. That's what ours and your constituents will decide in the end, not you here. So you have no right to test us. As a mother, I have a different view of the matter. I want to increase social payments and social benefits aimed at the policies for the birth of children and young families, but unlike you, I think that this money should be aimed at opening more kindergartens and kindergartens, and not at encouraging the longer stay of young mothers at home, because especially when they have a second child and merge motherhood, they remain very long outside the labour market and this prevents them from returning, adapting, having a good career and good income throughout their lives, so as to support their child until they grow up and become 18 years old, and not only during the second year of rearing. So from ABB we will work, as well as Mr. Kalfin, to discover more nursery and kindergartens, even if they become free for children, not to encourage staying at home and deprofessionalizing young mothers. We believe that the subject is being exploited here, and populist at that, because when we tie a minimum wage to social pay, we also condemn the freezing of minimum wages and the rise of workers who are poor. Is that a left-hand measure? Think about it and look at these measures very much, not just populist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u79	Way to go, Marianne! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. Third line? I won't. Mr. Gyokov, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov and the Patriotic Front! Thanks for your support. I think if people think like you in this room, it would be good for Bulgarian mothers. This populism, which started by Mr. Bajraktarov and continued to Mrs. Todorova, let it be populism, as long as we solve the problem of Bulgarian mothers. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]] Let's give them a breath of air, even if it's populism. God, more populism in this room. I will pay special attention to Mrs. Todorova's line. Of course I am not the one who will determine the policy of the ABB, but you say in the public domain that you are a left-wing party. And what's left of increasing retirement age and required internship? I've heard the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Kalfin, when he ran political campaigns, say very different things. I don't know what went wrong with him now. I ask myself, is he left, is he right, what is he? I do not require this from you, neither from the Patriotic Front, nor from the BDZ, nor from GERB, nor from the Ataka. This is what Bulgarian mothers require. They came to parliament, and not for the first time in the management of GERB. You didn't go out to meet them, did you?! [[Strong noise in GERB.]] We went out to meet. That's why we're offering it. No matter how much you say it's populism, these are the realities. And don't tell me moms are going back to work and I don't know what your theories are. Talk about how you're gonna get these moms a job. When you offer them a job, they will come back without telling them to come back or not. I see I'm running out of time. Otherwise, I could talk to you forever. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u82	You have one more minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u83	Thank you. I thought it was two minutes, but it doesn't matter. I want to tell you that by providing work to the Bulgarian mothers, they will not stay home for 340 BGN, which you are offering them right now. They won't stand for even BGN 420, which we offer to give them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u84	But you can't! But you don't give these mothers jobs because you don't think about them. Listening to your line, I was under the impression that on this occasion you wanted to reduce the term of motherhood. Well, let's take it off and go back to work after 40 days of paid motherhood, as it was in the past, and strip them of their benefits. Do I need to remind you who made the biggest contribution to these acquisitions? The Socialist Party! Bulgarian Socialist Party [[crowd cheering, cheering, and shouting]] in order to enjoy the Bulgarian mothers of some of the best benefits in the European Union. Thank you. (BSP LB.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u85	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. The next speech is from the MP Mr. Peter Petrov from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I expected the speaker to answer the questions Mr. Bayraktarov put before that. Why doesn't he put them on, I don't get it. That is why I would like to raise the question: "Whether the parliamentary parties GERB, DPS and ABB will support this Law or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u87	Thanks for the focus. A line? I won't. National Representative Ilian Todorov of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Ataka. You have the floor, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u88	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! The parliamentary group of "Attacka" will support the bill of BSP left Bulgaria. I don't understand why we're going into detail, digging down. Let's look at this a little higher. After all, each of you must agree that Bulgaria is currently in a demographic accident. It is also a fact that the lack of funds, the lack of financial resources in the Bulgarian families play a role for the Bulgarian women to simply not have children. I do not see what is the problem with the budget to separate 20 million to stimulate Bulgarian mothers, to offer them better raising of their children. I don't see what the problem is with spending 20 million, given that this year alone the state spends nearly 60 million. lv. for military missions abroad. So we have 60 million to protect world peace and security, and we don't have 20 million. lv. for Bulgarian mothers who give birth to children we are talking about children up to the age of two and mothers who have worked and paid their insurance. We are not talking about those who exist parasitically, unfortunately, in Bulgarian society. We see that round, rectangular and all kinds of tables are being made to discuss the demographic situation in the country, the negative growth. Yeah, but we're just talking! Here in the end, no matter who this proposal comes out of, we must support it because it is good for the demographic positive growth of Bulgaria. Otherwise, we all see what happens in ten, fifteen, twenty years. Bulgaria is the country that melts most quickly worldwide! The greatest mortality in the world! Figure it out! That 20 million won't be so heavy on the country's budget. I say again, we spend hundreds of millions, billions of dollars on bullshit. It's bullshit! Twenty million won't weigh you down. I ask you all to support this in the name of the Bulgarian mothers, in the name of the Bulgarian children - many of you are parents. I think you know that with 340 leva. It's very difficult to raise a child. You all know it. With £420. It's hard too, but at least it's a little easier. I will even ask the ladies' part of the room as mothers to get into the position of mothers who are not in this building and do not receive 3,000 leva each. And a bad paycheck a month. Thank you. [[Voices by "Attacka": "Bravo!"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u89	Thank you, Mr. Todorov. Don't ignore fathers, of course. [[Radio.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u90	Honourable MPs of the ruling majority! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of GERB! Can one of you come out and say why you're not, why you're against it? Any reasonable argument why you are opposed, other than discussing Drago Stoynev's statement in another sense and not with arguments which is insignificant on your part. You have no serious argument but to insult colleagues! Why not? We say why this has to happen. We all agree that we have a demographic problem, don't we?! If none of you are going to get up to speak it, to ask you, and answer from the place, because the grunting from the place and the smiles that you are putting on is not a position. [[Sighs and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u91	Please do not comment on the conduct of the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u92	Okay. Do we agree that we have a demographic problem? We're unanimous! Do we all agree that these people were paying their insurance while they were working, and that's their money?! They didn't come from the sky. An additional argument to what is being said, without being said so far, since 1 January 2016, you have increased the employee's insurance, but you have not increased the compensation when they become parents. That is, since 1 January 2016, you charge them more money as insurance, and you froze their compensation at the same level. What difference does it make? To cover deficits at the National Insurance Institute. That is, your goal is financial and fiscal, not human and designed for the demographic issue of Bulgaria. Since obviously none of you will stand up to say why not, let me tell you what arguments you have put forward so far. That is, from now on, I am starting to speak on behalf of GERB. So far, they've said, "We're not going to do it because there's no money in the budget." Nineteen million won't be there. Only in January, you have 900 million. More revenue, said the Prime Minister. Well, well, of that 900 million over the forecast, isn't there 19 million for mothers? The second argument: we are not going to do this because the budget needs to be changed. It is written in the budget a compensation, you now want to change the budget in February. What if we have to and this is to help the Bulgarian families, what is the problem with changing this budget? Is he fixed for ten years and we don't have...? We're the people who accept it, we're the people who change it. The third argument now spoken by ABB, but within the framework of the budgetary procedure, is spoken by representatives of GERB: instead of mothering this money we will give it to the construction of kindergartens. Dear colleagues, you know that money for kindergartens is not recorded in the state budget, but in the budget of municipalities. This is not a state job, it is a municipal job, and it is the duty of the local authorities. So does any of you remember, or if you don't remember, open your 2016 budget and tell me how many municipalities in Bulgaria there are for kindergartens? I'll tell you it's okay. You're just talking! This argument is fiction: we will not give it to mothers because we will give it to kindergartens. But the numbers are not written in the 2016 kindergarten budget. Get up and tell me how many kindergartens and in which cities will you build in 2016 and how much money? Whether that 19 million is enough for some kindergarten, I rule out that it's not in the budget at all. I mean, you demagogize, you growl from a place where we speak, you don't give any meaningful arguments. The conclusion really is, you say to these people, "You're not important!" Demographic problem is only a matter of words. Children are not important for Bulgaria. Young people are not important to Bulgaria. You're kicking them out of Bulgaria. And all of this, without any meaningful and logical argument. So for the last time, I ask you to go out and say why not. You heard us tell you why yes, why should it happen. You have a temper to say why you're against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u93	Thanks for the speech. - What's the line? Mr. Bayraktarov, you're the first line again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ninova, I agree with much of what you said. However, one thing I do not agree with. I can't figure out why you didn't turn to your coalition partner from the DPS, get an answer from them whether they will support you. For a reason, I even tried to challenge Mr. Hasan Ademov to take the opportunity to mention his name again in the form of a personal explanation as President of the Commission, but I cannot understand why you did not. Count how many people are here from the DPS. Look at the size of five people on the cross. Even the entire BSP group isn't here, unfortunately. Clearly, there must be some reciprocity in these statements. When they get out, tell them why they won't support it. You know, if they don't support it, it's all about fairy tales.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u95	Thank you. Second line? A hole, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u96	Dear colleagues from GERB, Reformation Bloc, BDZ, DPS We already know how they will vote, please come out and express a position on this bill. We will see how you will vote on the board, but please tell us from the stands why you will vote like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u97	Thank you. Any other speeches? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, we are going to vote. We are voting at first reading the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code with importers, the People's Representative Dragomir Stoinev and a group of MPs. The proposal was submitted on 14 October. This Decision shall They voted 137 MPs: 52, against 2, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. With this, this item on the agenda is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u98	Ask for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u99	I don't have to ask. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Members of the National Assembly have the free will to state it. Another question is whether it is heard well enough. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u100	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, from Ataka, we are proposing a re-voting. Please think about it. I'm telling you again, that 20 million. they will not weigh in any way on the state budget. Think of the mothers, Bulgarian mothers and the demographics of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u101	Mr. Todorov, you voted, didn't you?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u102	I voted, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u103	Dear colleagues, re-voting regime. We are voting on the bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Vote 139 MPs: 57 against 2, abstention 80. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the third item of the current agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COMMISSION LAW FOR FINANCIAL HEALTH. Importers are Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov 27 November 2015. I see no reports have been received from three committees to which it has been assigned, so we will not hear any reports. I suggest to the importers that they argue with their proposal. Mr. Slavov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u104	Mr President, honourable Members, I am also surprised that the committees have not found the time. It has been nearly three months since this Bill has been introduced, and we think it is quite important that it concerns a very vicious day-to-day topic, I would say, about bonuses and remuneration ceilings in state regulators. What we are proposing is, above all, that there are any restrictions, that there is some ceiling of the possible salaries and bonuses that are obtained in regulators, because you know that most of them are created on the basis of a separate elementary law, and that gives them the right to determine their own remuneration. Unfortunately, there are cases of regulators where there is only a lower limit of remuneration, but not an upper limit. Of course, the question arises: will they not abuse the need that they actually have to determine their own remuneration and bonuses? The suspicions that such things could happen are also fueled by the case with BNB, which has gained publicity in recent months in connection with the court case that we led with colleague Dimitrov against the previous leadership of the BNB, because they strongly refused to announce the remuneration and especially the additional remuneration, the so-called "bonuses" which they were passing out on the eve of KTB's bankruptcy. If you remember, we then very specifically asked: is it right to receive bonuses after a regulator has failed to do his job, especially when a bank is bankrupt? I mean, he obviously didn't do his job, his job. As the court obliged them, these additional remunerations became public and it became clear that they were nearly 50% on the basic salary and these were not small wages at all. Given that there was no limit on the restrictions, they actually received some rather serious salaries of nearly 20,000. lv. I'm talking about the previous manager in total per month. That's the logic of the bill we've introduced. It concerns mainly the Financial Supervision Commission, but during the Transitional and Final Provisions, it makes identical changes both in the Energy Act, in relation to the KEWRC, and in the Electronic Communications Act with regard to the Communications Regulation Commission. There is no problem, if supported, between the two readings to be added to the Commission for Protection of Competition, and the CEM, of course, under the Law on Radio and Television, for which we have submitted separate bills, which are also more or less dated since then and aged somewhere in the proceedings of the National Assembly. I really call on you to support it at first reading, to think about introducing rules on these remunerations that are distributed in regulators, to link remuneration with publicity and transparency, and especially with the results of these regulators' work. That is, we say: when the work is really good, society gives a high appreciation and there are visible good results of this work, and not bankrupt banks for example, then let there really be additional rewards that reflect this well done work. However, these additional salaries, along with the salary, may not exceed twice the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly, for there must be some reasonable ceiling after all. In our country, you know, most salaries in the public sphere are oriented precisely on the salary of the President of the National Assembly. These are, in general, the things we offer. I call for support and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov. After him, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Financial Supervision Commission Act submitted by colleague Petar Slavov and a group of MPs is a good bill. Moreover, honourable Members. From the point of view of the facts presented, which became public after a court case, we understand that the Chairman of the Board of Directors of BNB received grossly 19 thousand. lv. A little while ago, a large part of here rejected the opportunity to support Bulgarian mothers and look at the cynicism we are talking about. Nineteen thousand leva for the fact that now the entire Bulgarian people have to pay 4 billion for the bankruptcy of KTB. Not 20 million, as the colleagues and everyone who supported the previous bill spoke here, but 4 billion. I ask you, honourable Members: Is it normal in Bulgaria with such an economic situation, a group of so-called employees, because here we speak, we only have information about this direction... However, we have no information on what salaries they receive in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, for example, what are the salaries in the Financial Supervision Commission, for example? However, I will ask you: do you know how many people are employed in all this administration and how in these administrations there is always no expert potential and expertise, and the salaries are huge for the conditions of the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian economic circumstances? Can you imagine a moment ago what cynicism was created against the backdrop of these huge salaries? And just so someone doesn't come out now and explain that, you see, these high salaries correspond to the responsibility that's being borne! We've seen the responsibility, we've seen what we have to pay and, unfortunately, we've paid it. We have seen that there is still no punishment for receiving these high wages. Not a year and two. Here I have to open a clamp and add that none of us knows what the extra fees are for participating on different boards, who knows how many there are. I wouldn't be surprised if it turns out that one part of these gentlemen gets 50 to 60 thousand a month's income. Fifty-sixteen thousand! I wouldn't be surprised. It's a question of extra. It's a check-up. I therefore call on you to support this bill, although I see that when it comes to confusing in such areas, the banking lobbies, where the money comes from when it comes to interfering with the monopolies, suddenly the House is empty. I wonder why this room is being cleared out. Is there any chance that a large part of the political parties are attached to the black party cases and are now conveniently evicting themselves from the plenary? That's what we're talking about. That's why! And when we talk that there should be at least a small dose of justice in this country, this is the first step towards that justice. So we will support this bill. I hope there are people who are sane and they are more, again I say, hopefully, to support this measure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to express my regret that a small part of the MPs have remained on this extremely important subject and to thank those who remain in this House and who will participate in the vote, to take a very important decision from now on. The regulators, honourable Members, are part of the state. Yeah, they're independent. Independence means that they make their own decisions. Independence does not mean that they determine their own wages. The criterion for an independent regulator is he freely, independently, according to his conscience, according to his expertise to make his own decisions and not to determine his own salary. Think about how absurd it is to impose two MPs on us to bring a case before the Supreme Administrative Court and to decide that the salary at the BNB should be public because they are still a public body to understand that before the bankruptcy of the CCB the manager of BNB had taken 19 thousand. lv. salary. And because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic, understand one thing: if we, colleagues, you who have now remained in the Chamber, do not put order in the state, no one will do it, no one has the mandate and the powers to do so. We must answer the following questions: after everything that happened in the banking system, after CCB, is it right to let these people determine their own salary? Is that right? And if they ask you if your constituents are right, what will you tell them? You'll tell them: we didn't do anything, we left the BNB as before they set their own salary. Well, I'm sorry, if not 19,000, tomorrow they decide to be 100,000 a month or 200,000? Or do they decide to be 1 million? Why not? Then who will be responsible? At that time, they were independent, who made that decision, would not be fair, honourable Members! We have to put pay ceilings. The question is that independent regulators should be placed on the relevant ceilings. These ceilings must be adopted for all regulatory authorities. The bill we have proposed is open to debate. Make all your suggestions. Maybe there's smarter than ours. There may be a smarter model, but we can take the approach to have clear ceilings for the salaries of regulators in Bulgaria. For example, the fact that the BNB has only a minimum salary, but does not have a maximum salary, is absolutely unacceptable, improper and should be decided as a case by the National Assembly. And, again, colleagues: I do not see any interference in their work here. I don't see any interference with the independence of regulators. Let's put wage ceilings on them, which in no way means interfering with their work. And, you know, colleagues, I am convinced that if we don't accept this bill today, the next scandal will come. Will it be BNB or any other regulator where it will be paid, give her bonuses when people will ask the National Assembly again: you people, where did you sleep? How could you allow a regulator to receive money, salaries that are not justified and not logical? Should we wait for another big scandal, as it was with the salaries with the BNB, to resolve this issue? Must the National Assembly always pronounce and make important decisions after the scandals? I should not and I am convinced that most of you who are in this Chamber do not want to have any more such scandals in the Bulgarian society. You want us to set up our garden and have a debate on the wages of regulators. If necessary, we will extend the period between the first and second reading of the maximum period to be one month, each group to tell each other their ideas. Again, there must be smarter ideas than ours. Let's make the best decisions after all. So I call on you, colleagues: you have two choices at the moment. One choice is to place ceilings and limit, to have clarity about the salaries of all regulators in Bulgaria. If we've missed a regulator in this bill, we'll add it between first and second readings. As the BNB is gone, we add them because there was a separate bill for them. If there's anything else we've missed, we'll add it to it. Let's get our yard in order. That's one way to go. The other option is to reject it and say that it will be like we've been doing so far, even though there have been scandals, even though we've seen bad practices. We haven't learned anything from what's been going on so far. That's the second option I don't want to go to. So, by acting very constructively and well-intentionally, I say to you this way: let's together, without dividing ourselves into opposition and ruling, without dividing ourselves to the left and right, without dividing ourselves on this subject, Parliament together and constructively putting the wages ceilings of regulators so that there are no more scandals and asking us how you did? So I'm asking for your support. We may be a little bit in the room, but we can do smart and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Dimitrov, I agree with everything you've said, but we are a state of absurdity. Why do you want this proposal to spoil the absurdities of the state? The prime minister of the state gets five times less salary than the head of BNB. This is ridiculous! There is no other country in which it is. Well, the President of the National Assembly, well Mr. Glavachev, who is behind me, takes five or six times less than the regulatory authorities in the country. Is that right? That's right! This is it, Mr. Dimitrov, state of absurds and right now with your bill that is exactly what you want to change the absurds in the country!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u112	Dear colleagues, the people have said for a reason that they are not mad, the one who eats the cabbage, but the one who gives it to them. Those who eat the cabbage, dear colleague, are not the crazy ones, and we are the crazy ones that we have not adopted clear regulations on the salaries of regulators in Bulgaria. It really does not make sense that the President of BNB should take four times the salary, for example, from the Finance Minister. Let's compare the responsibilities of the Finance Minister and the President of BNB, especially in the terms of the Currency Board and without mentioning names, the names do not matter, the principles matter here. The Finance Minister obviously has much more commitments and much more responsible work than the President of BNB. It is therefore important that this debate be held and that this debate should not be held one-sided. That is why I propose a very long period between first and second readings, so that all parliamentary groups can propose their approach and offer a fair approach so that we can tell society yes, there has been a problem here, but after a serious debate Parliament has offered justice, has proposed that there be wage ceilings for regulators and these large disproportions, these major differences are resolved from here on out. Once again, my fellow Members, I call on you to support you to vote on this and not to wait for another major scandal that will force us to adopt this bill. Let's get ahead of ourselves this time. Let us not wait for another regulator to see incredible absurdities in order to adopt such a bill. Let us all show together that on such topics we can work and achieve results. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 554 01 182, submitted by Petar Vladislavov Slavov and Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov on 27 November 2015. 70 MPs voted: 42, none, 28 abstentions. Please announce the result by group, and then re-vote procedure. Re-vote please, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u114	Mr. Chairman, some of the colleagues are obviously not in the Chamber and could not vote. I would ask you, even if you had to, a very short five-minute break to be made or to find another suitable way to invite your colleagues. You can see that the votes for the vote were twice as many as the votes against the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u115	You may request a recess on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u116	On behalf of the parliamentary group, I propose a ten-minute break so that we can then vote more fully and more responsiblely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[F.F. and R.B. lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u117	Mr. Zelenogorski? It's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u118	He's okay with it. And, respectively, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u119	Half an hour's rest then.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u120	And re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u121	And then re-vote. Half an hour off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u122	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. The bill for amendment and supplement of the Financial Supervision Commission Act No 554 01 182, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 27 November 2015. The request was made before the break. I'm putting the bill on the table. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. [[Applause.]] The bill was passed in the first vote. Mr. Lazarov, please come to the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, prior to this vote, a break was requested from Mr. Dimitrov. He called on you to invite the MPs to come to vote. It seems to me that you have failed to fulfil this obligation by looking at the results of the parliamentary group, which wants the holiday.. They were less than half. Please, some other time fulfill these calls. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u124	The call was mutual. How did who take it... Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose that we extend the deadline for the newly adopted bill of maximum, as there are a lot of requests for proposals between first and second readings. Let us extend it to the maximum permissible term of the Rules. I also take this opportunity to thank my fellow Members for their support, especially the GERB Parliamentary Group, which in this case compensates for partial missings from the Block and from everyone else. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Petar Slavov to extend the period between the first and second votes to the maximum, to the amendments just passed and supplement to the Financial Supervision Commission Act, No 554-01-182, submitted by Peter Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 27 November 2015. They voted 98 MPs: 48, none, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPENSATION OF THE AID LAW AND THE FINANCIAL COMPENSATION OF FACILITIES. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. The bill has No 502-01-98 in the National Assembly. With the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we will be briefed by its President, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If I may, before I present the report, request a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Vergenia Micheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u128	We are voting on the proposal of the MP Danail Kirilov for admission to the plenary of Deputy Minister Micheva. Vote 81 MPs: 77, none, abstention 4. Please invite Deputy Minister Micheva to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u129	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. At its meeting held on 17 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Justice: Mrs. Vergenia Micheva-Ruseva, Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Aleksandar Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law, Mrs. Silvia Filipova, Senior Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs, and Mr. Georgi Spasov, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Justice. The bill was presented by Mrs. Vergenia Micheva-Rousseva, Deputy Minister of Justice. It noted that the Bill extended and refined the existing legislation on the rights of victims of crime, including by introducing provisions of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA. The draft law under discussion has the following objectives: 1. extending the scope of the authorities, organizations and persons who provide information on the rights of victims under the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation of Victims of Crime; 2. providing free access for all victims of crimes of general nature to organisations providing free psychological advice and practical assistance; 3. extending the scope of the serious intentional crimes for which the Law provides financial compensation; 4. improving the effectiveness of the financial compensation scheme, and 5. Regulation of the state's interaction with non-governmental organizations providing free psychological advice and practical assistance. In relation to the submitted, after the expressed support for the Bill, a question by the National Representative Christian Mitev concerning the availability of funds for the implementation of the Law, the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Micheva noted that the funds will be provided by the budget of the Ministry of Justice. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Issues with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015, proposed an amendment and supplement to the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. With the report of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, we will be introduced by the People's Representative Silvia Hubenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u131	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. At its regular meeting held on 10 February, In 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crimes submitted by the Council of Ministers. The following representatives of the Ministry of Justice took part in the Commission meeting: Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law and Ms. Silvia Filipova, Senior Expert at the Directorate of International Legal Cooperation and European Affairs and Mr. Georgi Spasov, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Justice. I. The draft law aims to expand and refine the legal framework in Bulgaria related to the rights of persons suffering from crime. In this regard, provisions of Directive 2012/29/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and replacing Council Framework Decision 2001/220/JHA shall be introduced in our national legislation. II. The above Directive relates to amendments and additions to the Law, including: - The editing of Al. 1 of art. 3, by which it is arranged for victims of a common criminal nature to have the possibility of free access to organisations providing psychological advice and practical assistance; - the amendments to art. 8, 9 and 11, they concern the provisions of the Directive, according to which family members of a person whose death is a direct consequence of a crime and who have suffered harm as a result of the death of the person, to obtain free access in the context of confidentiality to services/support organisations for victims before and during criminal proceedings and within an appropriate period after their completion; - The new Al. 2 of art. 27 It is aimed at implementing cooperation and coordination with European networks dealing with issues directly related to the rights of victims of crime. III. Last but not least, by creating art. 6a, the overseas representations of the Republic of Bulgaria in the Member States of the European Union undertake to inform in writing the Bulgarian citizens who are present and who are victims of crimes in the territory of the host Member State, the competent authorities in the host Member State, to whom they may address the order for receiving assistance and financial compensation, as well as the opportunities for receiving assistance when they are located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. With the new article. 6b Appropriate measures to assist victims are proposed to understand and understand in the first and all subsequent necessary contacts with a competent authority in the context of criminal proceedings, including where that authority provides information. This must be done in an accessible language, orally and in writing, taking into account the individual characteristics of the victim. In view of the above and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 13 votes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs. Hubenova. There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime, No 502-01-98, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Assistance and Financial Compensation for Victims of Crime No 502-01-98 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 December 2015 was unanimously adopted at first reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GLOBAL FIGHTING FUND AGAINST AIDS, TUBERCULOSE AND MALARIA AND BULGARIA AND THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE CONFIRMATION FOR WITHOUT AID FOR THE FACILITY OF THE TUBERCULOSE AND THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The report from the Health Committee will introduce us to the People's Representative Kiril Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2016. At its regular meeting held on 25 February 2016, the Health Commission discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January In accordance with The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health: Dr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister, who presented the Bill, and experts. The Framework Agreement and the Guarantee for Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme have been signed by the Minister of Health under Decision No 758 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. The Framework Agreement shall enter into force as of 1 October 2015 and shall be signed by the Head of the Department of Tuberculosis and Aid Management at the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. According to the Guarantee for grant under the Programme No BGR-T-MoH, the sustainability of the National Tuberculosis Programme will be supported by up to EUR 5 822 822. The implementation period of the Programme shall be from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2018. In view of the achievement of the objectives set in the National Programme for Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in Bulgaria 2012, 2015 and in the draft National Programme for Prevention and Control of Tuberculosis in the Republic of Bulgaria (2016 - 2020).), the present grant constitutes additional funding for the implementation of the planned activities in relation to this socially significant disease. The main objective of the program is to ensure early diagnosis of cases of resistant tuberculosis and early start of treatment, especially among patients from the most vulnerable groups with specific focus among the Roma community. Through the grant for the next three years, the activities will focus on improving the control of tuberculosis in Bulgaria, applying approaches, guidance to the patient regarding treatment, care and prevention, ensuring active detection of tuberculosis cases with the support of teams of field assistants to NGOs, improving the adherence to therapy of tuberculosis patients. The main target groups of the program are patients with tuberculosis and their contact persons, persons from the Roma community, persons imprisoned, children at risk, homeless, persons with drug and alcohol dependence, people living with HIV/AIDS; patients with diabetes, refugees and migrants. As a result of the grant implementation, early detection of pulmonary tuberculosis is expected; improvement of the outcome of the treatment of newly discovered patients; reduction of tuberculosis incidence in children and others. In the long term, a reduction in morbidity is expected after completion of the programme. 2018 with a view to bringing the European Union average closer and a substantial reduction in the amount of expenditure on medicinal products and the costs of specialized tuberculosis treatment structures. The necessary funds from domestic financing, including the costs of taxes, duties, charges for supplies of goods and services, will be provided within the approved budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant year. The ratification of the agreement and the confirmation of the grant shall be required in the arbitration settlement of disputes provided for therein, exemption from customs duties, fees and taxes and the implementation of internal legal procedures for their entry into force under art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion held unanimously with 13 votes for the Health Committee, the National Assembly proposes to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs and its Chairman Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January In accordance with At its meeting held on 3 February 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed that ratification bill. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Health: Dr. Adam Persenski Deputy Minister, and Dr. Tonka Verleva Head of the Department of Specialized Donor Programmes. The bill was presented by Dr. Adam Persenski. He pointed out that the main objective of the Programme is to provide early diagnosis of cases of resistant tuberculosis and early start of treatment among patients of the most vulnerable groups. The main target groups of the programme are patients with tuberculosis and their contact persons, persons imprisoned, persons at risk, persons with drug and alcohol dependence, persons with HIV/AIDS, patients with diabetes, malaria, refugees and migrants. In the long term, after completion of the programme, a reduction in morbidity and consequently a reduction in the amount of drug expenditure and the costs of the activities of treatment structures for tuberculosis are expected. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs, with 12 votes for........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. It will be introduced to you by the Vice-President of the Commission, National Representative Diana Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its regular meeting held on 4 February, 2016 the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2016. The bill with an importer of the Council of Ministers was presented by Mr. Adam Persenski, Deputy Minister of Health. The Framework Agreement and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme were signed by the Minister of Health under Decision No 758 of the Council of Ministers of 2015, and entered into force on 1 October 2015. According to the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme No BGR T MoH "Sustainability of the National Tuberculosis Programme" the Republic of Bulgaria will receive funds up to 5 million. 822,000. 822 euros. The implementation period of the Programme shall be from 1 October. By 30 September 2018, the Commission shall submit to the European Parliament and to the The main objective of the program is to ensure early diagnosis of cases of resistant tuberculosis and early start of treatment, especially among patients from the most vulnerable groups with specific focus among the Roma community. The main target groups of the program are patients with tuberculosis and their contact persons, Roma community individuals, prisoners, children at risk, homeless, persons with drug and alcohol dependence, people living with HIV/AIDS; patients with diabetes, refugees and migrants. As a result of the grant, the achievement of: early detection of pulmonary tuberculosis cases is expected; improvement of the outcome of the treatment of newly discovered patients; reduction of relapses, retreatment and multi-resisting tuberculosis; reduction of tuberculosis incidence in children; reduction of disease spread in prisons, Roma community and other high-risk populations; improvement of population awareness of tuberculosis-related problems and attitudes among risk groups for the adoption of their proposed social and health services. In the long term, after completion of the implementation of the Programme, a reduction of morbidity is expected to 2018 with a view to bringing the averages in the European Union and a substantial reduction in the amount of drug expenditure and the costs of the activities of specialized treatment structures for tuberculosis. The necessary funds from domestic financing, including tax expenditure (including value added tax), customs duties, charges for supplies of goods and services, will be provided within the approved budget of the Ministry of Health for the relevant year. The ratification of the Agreement and the confirmation of the grant shall be imposed by the arbitration settlement of disputes provided for therein, exemption from customs duties, taxes and charges and the implementation of the internal legal procedures for their entry into force, according to art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held at which the members of the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed their principled support for the so-called draft. After the discussion of the Draft was followed by a vote which ended with the following results: 15 votes in favour of the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yordanova. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Jemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u139	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In summary: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for Combating against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme "Improving the sustainability of the National Tuberculosis Programme" between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 21 January In accordance with At a regular meeting held on 17 February 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Dr. Tonka Verleva The Framework Agreement and the Grant Confirmation under this Programme were signed by the Minister of Health under Decision No 758 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. The Framework Agreement shall enter into force as of 1 October 2015 and shall be signed by the Head of the Department of Aid Management at the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The main objective of the program is to ensure early diagnosis of cases of resistant tuberculosis and early start of treatment, especially among patients from the most vulnerable groups with specific focus among the Roma community. Through the grant for the next three years, the activities will focus on improving the control of tuberculosis in Bulgaria, applying approaches oriented to the patient regarding treatment, care and prevention, ensuring active detection of tuberculosis cases with the support of teams of field assistants to non-governmental organizations, improving the adherence to therapy of tuberculosis patients. In the long term, a reduction in morbidity is expected after the implementation of the Programme. 2018 with a view to bringing the averages in the European Union and a substantial reduction in the amount of drug expenditure and the costs of the activities of specialized treatment structures for tuberculosis. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which was proposed by 13...................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt the draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-02-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers to the 21 January 2016, first vote. Please vote. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Mr. Dobrev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I propose, as no proposals for amendment or supplement of the bill were made during the discussion, that the National Assembly decide by virtue of art. 77, para. 2 of its Rules of Procedure and the second vote shall be held in the framework of today's sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u142	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Kiril Dobrev for consideration of the bill and its vote and the second vote. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. Please present the Second Voting Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u143	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria A single member. It ratifies the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, signed on 2 October 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u144	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the second vote the Law presented to you. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria has been adopted. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY C.E. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova and Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister for Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will take part in it. In the parliamentary control of art. 104 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not have the opportunity to participate the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev and Deputy Prime Minister for Demographic and Social Policy and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Ivaylo Kalfin. They have notified the National Assembly pursuant to art. No. 104, para. 3. Participants in the Conference of Presidents were also aware. You have the floor for questions. First, the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u145	Mr. Chairman, ladies of honor, Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva as Deputy Prime Minister. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, Bulgaria has a commitment to sign and subsequently ratify the Council of Europe Convention No 210 on Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. This commitment is made by our country, at a high level both in the Council of Europe and before the United Nations General Assembly. Council of Europe Convention No 210 on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence is the first international legally binding document in Europe in this area. It is the most significant international treaty in Europe to deal with human rights violations, such as gender-based violence. The document provides standards for protecting and combating violence against women and domestic violence. Out of 47 Member States of the Council of Europe, 39 have signed it so far and 19 have ratified it. It is necessary and useful for Bulgaria to sign this Convention within the Presidency of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which is currently under way and will end on 18 May 2016. My question to you is: as deputy prime minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of the Ministry of Justice, and as a colleague of the other Deputy Prime Minister responsible for this Convention, Mr Kalfin, will you make sure that, within this period, the two ministries of Foreign Affairs and Justice understand on the question which of the two is the leading one which of the ministries will draw up the report and draft a decision to be presented to the Council of Ministers? Indeed, Mrs. Kuneva, it is important for Bulgaria to sign this Convention by the end of April 2016 and then work the so-called working group, which is currently being established in the Ministry of Justice, for its subsequent ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u147	Mrs. Grozdanova, you're right. I am also committed to you personally this Istanbul Convention, which is very important, especially in light of the fact that the Presidency of the Council of Europe will lead to a successful conclusion. The Justice Department is working on preparing for the signing, and this is my first concrete answer. Signing and ratification are important, but not enough. The Ministry of Justice is also preparing amendments to the Criminal Procedure Code for the introduction of blue rooms for the hearing of victims of violence. At the end of last year I also made a commitment to PACE President Mrs. Ann Brasseur that this would happen, all the more so that this is our mandate, as you said, to protect the most vulnerable groups in society. I would be more pleased to be able to tell you that today has been considered, for example, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers. The ministry, which is really very busy right now, will bring things to an end and will be discussed at a meeting in the Council of Ministers. I'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. A line? I won't. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. It will be set by the National Representative Yanaki Stoilov. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u149	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! The issue on behalf of our parliamentary group is to Vice Prime Minister Kuneva about the readiness and consequences of the implementation of the Law on pre-school and school education. You know, we have suggested that this Law enter a year later to prepare its implementation well. We know the positions of the majority and your intentions to introduce it from the beginning of the next school year. I would like to point out at least two of the sharpest problems that are emerging: the risk of a new series of closures of schools in secondary and smaller municipalities. There are at least two reasons for this. One is moving the end of primary education from the eighth grade to the seventh grade, which will bring down below the critical minimum number of students in a number of dozens of schools. The second reason is the transfer of professional high schools from the state to municipalities and there is already evidence that some of the municipalities are refusing to continue maintaining these schools in view of the greater costs they will have to make for their maintenance. Anxiety also triggers changes in history, literature, and other subjects. A number of round tables were held at which critical remarks were expressed, which give rise to legitimate expectations for their change. Madam Minister, do you collect information from the municipalities how many schools can be closed in the next one or two years? Will you review the content of the prepared basic study programmes? We await your response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. Let me remind you, honourable Members, that art. No. 104, para. 1 is used to ask up-to-date questions relating to the general policy of the government made by MPs. Mrs. Kuneva, if you could, from this perspective, reveal what you think of the government's common policy and current issues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u151	Just a few days ago, at the end of last week I received some questions in this direction from your parliamentary group and answered them all. I'll probably keep doing it next Friday. So these specific questions get specific answers. For the preparation I had such a question on Friday about relations with municipalities and their readiness. By March 31, we expect them to be able to give. They have 14 schools that need to be converted. Letters were sent to the municipalities. We expect them to answer by March 31st whether they can do it. Then we'll consult with the Ministry of Finance. No one is willing to create disproportionate difficulties for the municipalities. At the same time, it is the autonomy of municipalities to know exactly what they need in terms of vocational schools. In fact, this is the mind of the Law that you voted in this House. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Vocational Education and Training in connection with the synchronization of its texts is being worked on. A first raw version of a project has been developed, which is currently going through an internal discussion between the Directorates of the Ministry of Education. With regard to textbooks, I still do not have a full month as Minister of Education and Science. I told you when my choice was being discussed, that I would do my best to make sure that this Law entered as you voted in plenary. I want the executive to be executive, not to argue with the legislator, but to apply what the legislator, your collective wisdom, has decided. In the coming days, I will tell you what the options are, what the risks are, what the problems we need to deal with. We will choose a solution that is limited by: first, by applying the Law; second.. no chaos; and third.. children to have textbooks. Due to the increased public interest, I extended the period for the collection of opinions by my order until March 7th, that is, two weeks. He ran out on February 22nd. After summarizing the opinions received at the beginning of March they are about 120 in all 50 draft curricula for the three classes I will tell you what the notes were. Immediately after their validation, the draft order for the launch of a procedure for creating textbooks to be used in the second, sixth and seventh grade in the academic 2017 and 2018. I am not sure that I can guarantee it 100%, but one hundred percent of the efforts to discuss and make all the opinions in order to reach the best solution. Since March 1st on the website of the Ministry of Education, as well as on the portal for public consultation, is published for public discussion Project for State Educational Standard for pre-school education. I think he got some attention from the press. Seven round tables are to be held in different cities of the country with representatives of stakeholders from all 28 regions. We are planning a consultation with teachers who work in preschool education, on the most sensitive expert issues that should solve the standard, the number and the name of the educational directions, the place of the game in preschool education, as well as the nature of the programming system. We also foresee six regional round tables with representatives from all over the country to present the ideas of four state educational standards for information and documentation, for institutions, for inspection, for status and professional development of pedagogical specialists. Co-ordination has been established. There is intensive work in a working group that develops projects for the remaining 12 educational standards, and we are determined to subject all aspects of discussions. Trainings of experts from regional education inspections are planned in connection with the implementation of the new educational package, standards, curricula, curricula with emphasis on first and fifth grade. In short, many discussions before standards become a fact and many explanations and trainings for teachers so that the Law can be implemented in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u153	Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I hope that the cheerful tone with which you gave this information inspired optimism and proved by what people the teachers, teachers and parents will be able to check after the beginning of the school year. Your responsibility is to determine the content of the curriculum. The law has delegated these obligations to the executive. Therefore, I expect, as you have stated, especially in the subjects of history and literature, but not only that they will be filled with contemporary, Bulgarian-in-spirit content, reflecting the actual facts, so that students can best navigate in what their training is intended for. At the same time, I can give you examples. There are weirdities for example from the first classes to study strange disciplines such as............................................................................................ It seems that Bulgaria will be the first country in which entrepreneurs will be more than those involved in classical activities to provide their incomes and their lives. I give you this example because such fascinations will also lead to subsequent devastation in Bulgarian education. Such examples have abounded over the past 20 years. Therefore, once again, I appeal to you to seriously control this process, to attract a maximum number of specialists in the laws that are being adopted. This is now Parliament's responsibility, but not the opposition's, because we believe that this Law in a number of cases is deepening and not solving problems. And as long as laws are written on abstract minds or delivered from one place or another, the results will be these. With regard to schools that can be closed down with my colleagues, we call for active dialogue because this is a real danger and it will take place during the next or pó next school year. So talk to people, listen to their demands and take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u154	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. There was basically no line. Moreover, you, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, used your time the first time. You're giving up the backdrop. Thank you. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Ministers! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, my question is addressed to you as Deputy Prime Minister for European Affairs and is related to the Bulgarian preparation for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. First of all, congratulations on the start of the site from which we can inform ourselves very thoroughly. In this regard, I would like to ask you to give me more information about how the preparation is going? In particular, we are interested in a question. Under the diplomatic circles, we understand that Bulgaria is preparing for a European Union presidency in Brussels, i.e. the main part of the events, say 80%, to be held in Brussels and only 20% in Bulgaria. Is this proportion correct, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, and if so, when has the decision been made to change this direction? What prompted this change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u156	Thank you, Mr. Anastasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u157	Mr. Anastasov, I will take this opportunity to tell you a little more about the Presidency, because a lot has happened since our last talks with you. The site is one of them, but there are a lot of organizational things that have happened. They were discussed at a meeting of the Council of Ministers on January 20th. On the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency we already have a common vision. I think I've had a chance to discuss them with you, as well as with the Committee on Foreign Affairs of Parliament. On the 21st for the first time a meeting with the threesome was held, and at the meeting of the Trio were presented our priorities. However, given the situation in the United Kingdom, it has been clarified that at this stage they do not have a mandate to comment on specific topics and files. Our next meeting will be in May 2016. Then, based on the contribution of the three countries and the Commission's work programme in January 2017, we will start a very specific work with the Secretariat-General to specify the priorities of the Trio. The first report on the plan was reviewed on 2 December and a report on the second quarter is to be submitted. The team of the Presidency is appreciated and this is important and good news, meaning we have an assessment of all 800 people who are currently identified. On this basis is prepared a file for each employee what additional courses should pass, what is its preparation. There are currently talks about the modernisation and adaptation of buildings. A contractor has been selected for the preparation of an ideal project for the reconstruction and adaptation of the NDK building. We are preparing the first calendar of the Presidency for the events in Sofia. Perhaps here to avoid delaying the answer, see, for at least 10 years there have been Brussels-based presidencies, which means that the main part of the board since we entered the European Union has, in fact, been another form we have not seen and, of course, this does not mean that there are no events taking place in the country. They're going to be about 200. Between 150 and 200 have been for all the last presidencies we have checked since 2007. This means that here we are doing at least two large meetings, we are doing formal and informal meetings of ministers and that we are making working groups, directors-general and directors-general. This is what will happen in Bulgaria. Otherwise, most of the negotiations on the files are conducted in Brussels. The additional reason for this is that after the Lisbon Treaty has changed, the European Parliament is actually a completely equal actor in the negotiations on every single file. We understand ourselves that the European Parliament cannot negotiate in the Member State concerned. So now, in a conditional manner, the Presidencies of the village are all done in the same way. This will be the case for Bulgaria as well. Of course, the instructions come from Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u158	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Here's a line, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u159	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. I'm glad I got some new information from you, too. However, I call on you to have a really narrow dialogue relating to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, which has options for both Brussels-based and national causes and events. I was particularly impressed with the idea of tying events in Bulgaria to Varna's household for a European capital of youth, a household of Plovdiv for a European capital of culture, as well as of Sofia for a European capital of sport. I'm asking you earlier to negotiate these matters. I suppose a large part of the local authorities, but also the business, as was the Italian example, which was largely co-organizer of the Presidency, are interested in this and are looking for a way for this Presidency to bring a synergy really to all sectors of the state, government and non-governmental, as well as to business, so that they can make the most of it. Thank you. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u160	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, would you like to take advantage of the right to the doppelganger? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u161	Just a few more words. Since you mentioned business, I'm in the process of clarifying sponsorship rules. There must be rules and know what the conditions are. Otherwise, the Italian Presidency is also believed to be based in Brussels, which was a year ago. There will be little events in Bulgaria. We will have many informal meetings, as our budget, of course, gives us the opportunity. The other thing we need to consider is how expensive our presidency will be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u162	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Here you go, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mrs. Meglena Kuneva, Deputy Prime Minister, and is related to the last report of the European Commission regarding the economic development of Europe, of the countries in Europe and, in particular, of Bulgaria, where the Commission points out that corruption is one of the main obstacles to the development of business in Bulgaria. Although there are quite good conditions that can attract foreign investment, it is actually corruption that repels them. The aim of each right-wing management is to support the business of small, medium and large, and one of the main priorities of the Reformation bloc is the fight against corruption. In this regard, we have learned that at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers today was presented and discussed the Law on the Prevention of Corruption at the High Levels of Power. My question relates precisely to this new bill: what are the new moments in it compared to the old one that was tabled by the National Assembly? What are the basics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u165	Dear Mr. Delchev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, really at an operational meeting today the Council of Ministers examined the Anti-Corruption Bill presented by a working group. This Law is with consolidated texts of the experience that Bulgaria has accumulated through two main laws, which governs the conflict of interest, and the other is for the Commission to withdraw the illegally acquired property. What the working group has proposed today, the Council of Ministers has examined and approved at an operational meeting, is the collection of these two main directions in a very strong law that copes with the consequences of the conflict of interest and leads to a faster resolution of the case, including when this is necessary through the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property. The Authority is united. What probably interests the MPs is that he is elected by the National Assembly. I believe that there are arguments in this direction because it is a very strong body, combining the work of the two committees and is united, elected by the National Assembly with those foundations which were laid in the previous project, related to the verification of the conflict of interest of a wider group of people who are in high positions, connected with power and have access to public resources, and who are in risk groups. For example, the Prime Minister's explicit insistence on the scope of the Law added the senior military staff, for example, heads of agencies, which are key to our economy. The high-level inspection body, I stress, is of extended subjective scope, but it is also narrowing in terms of conflict of interest. Now KPUKI is checking over 100,000 people, but with very poor results. This law is what we deal with. Over 70% are now small cases. This will not be the case with the new texts. All other employees will be subject to inspection outside the high levels, but through the inspectorates. We have arranged the examination of the magistrates, we have combined the constitutional text which requires this to happen through the Inspectorate, but the deeper examination is sent to this body after a signal from the judicial inspectorate. One is the declaration. The declaration threshold is increased from 5,000 to 10,000. lv. The property is also declared to persons in actual marital cohabitation, but with a very precise wording of what this means. There is a new Chapter Signals, where alerts for mandatory prior verification are settled and only if sufficient data is established is transferred by a decision of the Bureau to a property check. I very much ask that this be well understood because there have been fluctuations and accusations that this body will be untied to do such checks on signals on its own. It is clear in the texts of the Law that this is done only if there is sufficient evidence and that this applies to both signed and unregistered signals. The property verification starts on the basis of what category are the persons. Audits for the integrity of inspectors are provided. I hope that this Law, which is distributed to all the parliamentary groups supporting the majority, will enjoy your attention and comments that we are ready to discuss.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u166	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Here's a line for you, Mr. Delchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u167	And thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for the comprehensive information, but the question always arises: who will check the examiners, who will control the controllers? In fact, the main success of the outcome of this Law will be that people who enter the future body that fights corruption are truly honest and follow their obligations by law. That is, to pursue corruption with this passion that we all want to see. In this regard, I would like to ask you, are there any checks for the loyalty of the employees in the body envisaged, and what will they consist of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u169	Yes, checks on entry are envisaged, periodic and sudden. The requirements for individuals will actually be able to organise in parliament when you vote, preliminary hearings. In fact, Parliament is most responsible for who will be the people who will take on this difficult task and for the management of the Bureau and, of course, for the inspectors themselves who will carry out the checks. Such techniques, which are related to the loyalty test, are envisaged. I have assurances from many partner services that we will have access to the best possible qualification courses so that we can actually be at a level that the ambitions of this Law, I hope, all in this House, deserve.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front and will be asked by the MP Krasimir Karakachanov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, we have learned from the media about a working meeting between the Prosecutor General and representatives of the Ministry of Interior on the topic of countering crime. We all see that in recent weeks, domestic crime has once again taken up some unpleasant dimensions, as examples again in areas where, like the Pleven region in the village of Mechka, there have been traditionally relations of some of the local minorities to the majority, robberies, beatings, and worse cases. The measures you have discussed are for more presence of police in cities and risk areas, for a more active presence of the gendarmes. These are good things. You remember that we talked about them last spring, when we once again commented on measures to combat domestic crime. In this regard, I would like to ask you on behalf of the Patriotic Front: is there already the new concept that you have commented on with the Attorney General, when to expect this concept and the new measures that have been identified, what are they and when will they take effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u173	Dear Mr. Glavachev, honourable Mr. Karakachanov, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yes yesterday we held a national meeting of the directors of the territorial directorates of the Ministry of Interior, the heads of the Criminal Police, the chief directors. This was a meeting following the reports of these Directorates to determine the main guidelines on which the Ministry of Interior will work next year and the main political priorities in the work after we have reported our activity. With regard to domestic crime, I will say something, suggesting what your reaction will be. The objective facts in recent months, not so much as relative figures, as an absolute number, show a decrease in crimes by about 24% in the last two months and an increase by 12.5 of their detection rate. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u174	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u175	I can assure my fellow Members, the honourable MPs who are currently trying to replicate me from a place that the most interested person in having an objective picture is me. What I can say is that the public sensitivity on this subject is extremely high and we are reporting it. I take it into account and consider it, but these are the objective facts. Registered crimes and disclosure rates are some indicators that have no reason to be manipulated in any way. This, I will just say, does not take the responsibility of the management of the Ministry of Interior, my personal responsibility for the general level of the criminogenic situation. That is why we have been discussing this process in the Ministry of Interior yesterday for the most effective measures that we can take. The first thing we do, and it's here and now, as soon as we can find out who did it. I can say that in most cases we manage to solve the perpetrators, it is harder to prove their identity and circumstance by the crime itself. As for a new strategy, this was set by the Attorney General. My personal opinion is that if the concept of the security system needs to be changed at all, it must be very active and the MPs. This is, after all, quite the competence of the National Assembly. We will contribute to this because we have already taken the first steps to discuss with representatives of private security companies, of which I may have asked about two months ago to consider the possibility of extending the perimeter of their action with regard to the protected sites. The main part of the robberies, which are so spectacular in Sofia, are actually protected sites by private companies. There the gaps cannot be compensated by the efforts of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior is coming shortly after them. It makes sense to consider this concept. We are making every effort, including today, to have such a meeting, in which to see how to make a new arrangement of forces so that we can, within the limits of our options, change patrol hours, patrol routes and so on, but there is a serious shortage of personnel that we are trying to compensate through internal reorganization. This is one of the objectives of the reform that we are proposing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Karakachanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u177	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, I asked this question because you know that the Patriotic Front supported the government. One of the things we insisted on entering the Programme was measures to combat domestic crime. You remember that in the spring, when there was an escalation of domestic crime, we had several meetings and we have targeted concrete measures, but there has not yet been a single concept. The fact is that the Ministry of Interior has taken measures, the fact is that in some areas of the country there is a success rate in preventing such domestic crime. Revealability is still not at a satisfactory level as far as people are still suffering. I would allow myself here to offer you a few things that could come into a similar concept and have you thought about it. Actually, on the first question I'm going to ask, I know you've been thinking. This is the redistribution of available forces as a composition of duty units in regional directorates to regional governments. That's already done. Yeah, there's resistance, it's obvious, but it's done. That's good, but you have to keep going in that direction. Secondly, we can use an old practice in Bulgaria, which will give its results, to think in one form or another to engage people on a voluntary basis, the so-called volunteer squads, who in the local areas, mostly in small towns, to support the work of regional inspectors, i.e. the police. The third thing that was done, but viciously done in a previous government, it's on the programs for temporary employment and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u178	What was the vicious part?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u179	Don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u180	I'll tell you what was wicked. The vicious thing was that over 5,000 people were hired. That's good, only they were appointed by the village mayors and the district governors of a family, a Shrubajan party principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u181	That's bullshit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u182	It's not bullshit. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u183	Please order in the court! Mr. Merdjanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u184	I think, Mr. Merdjanov, that you have not become Minister of the Interior and I am not asking the question to you. I'm asking him to the Home Secretary. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u185	Don't engage in dialogue. Please, Mr. Karakachanov, don't engage in dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u186	These people can be reassigned, i.e. a similar contingent of several thousand people under similar programmes can be appointed, but they must be reassigned by the members of former police officers, retired police officers, retired military officers and appointed by the rural mayors of a Shrubajan principle, as it was, to assist the election campaign when the time comes, [[BSP LB lines]] , or by the district governors of a party principle, and should be appointed by the district directorates of the police based on the footage they know, former staff of the system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Then we need to think about the range of inevitable defenses. People should have a greater opportunity to protect their property, their property and their lives. To eliminate the so-called minor crimes, which are practically insignificant for a person who takes 1000 BGN. salary, but for a pensioner with 150 leva. When you steal his chicken and two sheep, his year goes away.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u187	Mr. Karakachanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u188	And the cameras, the video surveillance here has a useful example, we've talked about it some other time. In the municipality of Cherven briag there was similar practice, it is with private companies and with the municipality. Pleven region is one of the most endangered by domestic crime, but in the municipality of Cherven Bryag this results. These are some of the things we've talked about, and I recommend that they get back into this concept.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, come in for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u190	Dear Mr. Karakachanov, thank you for the idea. Each one of them is being taken measures, discussed. In the proposal for a change in the Ministry of Interior Act, we have included the possibility of hiring employees who had police powers. We hope that this will greatly extend the scope of our capabilities, and as soon as this Law is passed here in Parliament, it will untie our hands as soon as possible. I agree with all the other proposals. With regard to video surveillance, yes, there are efforts, give results, but if this video surveillance is not built as it should, it will not do a good job. That's why we have two options -- we are actively using these cameras that belong to private security companies -- that's regulated by law, and we're giving methodical guidance in building new systems so we can guarantee the quality of the recording. This is a commitment that we have made by the Ministry of Interior. The only thing I wouldn't agree with is expanding the scope of the inevitable defense. The number of registered weapons in the country is too high. A very strict control system is needed, and I think that until we resolve this issue, we cannot solve the one contained in your proposal. [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Merdjanov, for a personal explanation. Please take this opportunity more often than not to call from the place.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u192	Thank you for your correctness, Mr. Chairman. My personal explanation is to my colleague Mr. Karakachanov, as he misleads the MPs with false allegations. Firstly, the programme in question "Secure" held with the government with Prime Minister Plamen Oresharski was a really good move, loudly enough and criticised by the representatives of the then parliamentary and extra-parliamentary opposition. It is also appropriate to say that not the rural mayors, but the district governors appointed the persons concerned after a thorough review and assistance with the directors of the regional directorates of the police. All this should be well-known to the representatives of the Patriotic Front, the representatives of IMRO, because they claim and give the highest support for the work of the Ministry of Interior, including the fence, which according to Mr. Simeonov we will see completed by the end of this year "if not," will follow the withdrawal of your parliamentary group from the government's support. [[Applause from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u195	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u196	Mrs. Bachvarova, I will ask a question on a topic that you commented on in the previous answer, namely the lack of personnel due to leaving employees at the Ministry of Interior. Over the past few days, we have started reading about threats about how tens of thousands would leave the system for social demands. What is really happening at police stations and complaints from employees in small municipalities is that there are really no people to assist them on shifts, many people are constantly on duty. My question to you, of course, I realize that I cannot ask for accurate data on the shortage of personnel, but what is the willingness of the Ministry to conduct enough competitions to hire new employees? What is the possibility that you can more quickly train new staff who would like to work at the Ministry of Interior and thus reassure the public that the Ministry can obtain the necessary personnel, the necessary employees of the Ministry of Interior, who will ensure the security of the population, fill the holes in the system and even in the negative development of this social dialogue that you are trying to lead, the population will be well protected and the security policy in the Republic of Bulgaria will be directed as it should be towards the citizens and voters, and not just to the employees in the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u198	Dear Mr. Glauchev, dear Mr. Kenov, ladies and gentlemen! Working with footage at the Ministry of Interior, especially police, has been a major concern lately. A fact I'd like to share with you. After the protests in November, the total number of people who left the Ministry of Interior was lower than those who left in 2014. That is, although such a stream seemed or was presented as a strong flow of exit from the Ministry of Interior in absolute figures, in absolute numbers, it is no different from what happened in the Ministry of Interior in the last three years. The last three years have left the Ministry of Interior sustainablely at 4,200-4500 people. What we are doing is a system for announcing competitions, which, unfortunately, guarantees better quality of selection, but requires longer time. As an example are the competitions that we had announced last year for border police along the border with Turkey. Only now can we include the elected employees because they went through training, which, by my personal request, was reorganized as a program shorter than it should be. After each contest, a period of six to nine months is required to train the staff. So, in order for us to have an effect at this point and be able to cope with this situation, we are taking a series of measures -- what we are talking about. First we tried to reorganize the duty units and where there was an opportunity to optimize the numbers to release certain numbers. There is currently a reorganization of the security activities of the sites that are of the Ministry of Interior. We plan with the completion of this process within a month to have 509 employees who can be redirected to the gendarmes and police in Sofia, because here is the biggest deficit, here is the biggest turnover. Only for Sofia are announced new 300 competitions, but will provide staff after the period I pointed out. I will repeat myself: we rely very much on these positions, which the official characteristics allow people to be appointed in employment, who already have such police powers. We have also given the opportunity to automatically, without going through a competition, people who are currently a first category, but are subject to transfer to a third category under the Civil Service Act, if they have the desire and the necessary power, to switch to police positions. These are the opportunities we have here, now and relatively quickly to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! Thanks for the answer. What led me to study this issue is precisely the state of the police station in the municipality, from which I am from the municipality of Karnobat, where there really is a big problem perhaps for natural reasons. But there were such problems. However, what was important in this reply was that there is really nothing by accident in the huge number of employees left. There's no way he could collapse the system. This, I think, at the moment, can give peace to the public and that what is being carried out in recent times will most likely not happen, as has not happened in previous protests. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Kenov. Madam Vice-Prime Minister, you will not take advantage of your right to duplicate. The next group in a row is the Alternative group for Bulgarian Revival. A question will be asked by the People's Representative Georgi Kyuchukov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question is to Mrs. Kuneva. Alphabetical truth is that the European Union is a community of equal citizens in equal countries. In some ways, although with some doubts, this within the Union has been achieved. However, these equal citizens and equal states are also intended to be equal to partners and countries outside the European Union. This is also the trend with some unification of the European Union's foreign policy, and we have a High Commissioner for Foreign Policy for nothing. Unfortunately, the inequality of some of the citizens of the European Union in front of an external state remains and Bulgaria is one of the countries most affected in this regard. The most visible is the visa problem, but it's not the only one. There are a number of discriminatory restrictions from the three countries for business projects, contacts and so on. While some of these countries, such as the United States, have certain criteria that we need to meet in order for them to drop, for example, visas, in many other places this has been done by momentum since the last 30 years or for some other reasons that have nothing to do with our membership in the European Union. On my question, Mrs Mogherini said that the European Union seeks full equality of all members in front of external countries. I don't know what that means as a practical event. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] During the presentation of the Dutch Presidency, they said they had no such idea. The question is: what are we, the Bulgarian government, doing to overcome these discriminatory practices from outside countries? I don't mean the big countries. I mean the ones like Swaziland, Lesotho and others. What is your opinion in this regard?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u203	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u204	Mr. Kuchukov, I can answer you specifically for visas because you know what the problem is. You know that there is, of course, an attempt for the European Union to package this issue for the new countries. But we must fulfill commitments that you know well. That is, those who have received visas and who, within the visa, have made this stay and others who have not returned. You know where our country is, that this happens quite often. Until this is overcome, we cannot succeed with a truly necessary important and reputational policy. About the other thing you told me, I'm sorry, but I couldn't understand your question. I don't mind answering if I can figure out what's behind it. This relationship, these countries, what are these relations, who are these countries? If this is about trade relations, it will probably be more a matter addressed to my colleague, the Minister of Economy, for example, because you know that this is taking place as a direction there. I wouldn't mind making a list of questions on which you want to get answers, side by side and problem on problem. I will engage with him, gather the relevant ministers and try to do so, including through my colleagues from the Foreign Ministry and through the Ministry of Economy. The group that deals in trade, you know this wonderfully, is located in the Ministry of Economy. I have never been referred to by any of our trade organisations or business representatives with such a question. So I can't answer that question so that you get a specific answer. I don't know what you mean. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Kuchukov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u206	Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I haven't been very clear with my question. Visas are one of the aspects of inequality of our citizens. The other aspect is that, if a citizen wishes to do business in a third country, he encounters many more obstacles than a French citizen, which is, in my opinion, inequality as members of the European Union. Again, this is not about trade relations, about global trade relations. I don't mean that. I am referring to direct discrimination against individual members of our society. What makes me ask you this question again, why, after several times being put, why, when the High Commissioner for Foreign Policy has said that he will cooperate in this direction, e.g. in the priorities and at all in the current presidencies, this does not exist at all as a policy and as a trend of action? What will we do to move this to be a permanent process? Otherwise, thank you, I can give you probably fifty countries where there is such a relationship. I'd appreciate your answer, but it would be more information than practical value.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Kuchukov. Here you go, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u208	Equal treatment cannot be a priority because it is just a condition without which it cannot. And it doesn't have to be a priority, it just has to be a factor in life. Where that's not true, we have a few options. If relations relating to the World Trade Organisation are concerned, we can directly do what is necessary to obtain justice. If these are relations that go through the European Commission's representation, we can also do this. Let's see who's on the case, who's on the stand and who hasn't answered. Otherwise, there are countries that still have traditions in other countries, in other continents, and it is probably easier for them there than for Bulgarian companies. However, we must therefore have an active national policy, and we cannot count on Europe to do the work for us. But this is no longer a matter of foreign policy, but of our national policy. I think I get it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u209	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. There is no representative from the next parliamentary group. The non-members of the parliamentary groups are not willing. Moving on to round two. Are there any members of the GERB Parliamentary Group? No questions asked. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria?? come in for a question, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The second issue from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, we will not argue with you about statistics on the detection of crimes in the Ministry of Interior. Obviously, there's no way we can work this out because we have screaming differences. Our question is related to the further amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, which have already been submitted to the National Assembly, at least this is what the President of the Internal Commission declared, together with representatives of the trade unions and other interested organizations. Today, however, news came out that the Rector of the Academy of Ministry of Interior Assoc. Boyka Cherneva has resigned due to disagreement with the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. Does that answer the truth? After all, how will you proceed with your resignation, what will be your reaction to this issue at the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u212	Dear Mr. Glauchev, Mr. Merdjanov, ladies and gentlemen! Two days ago I requested the resignation of the Rector of the Academy of the Ministry of Interior, received it, already appointed replacement. The reasons to ask these are, first of all, the systemic problems that the Academy has, which I have talked about with the Rector, and the extremely weak discipline of the students there. And yesterday we have a drastic case of midshipmen who have allowed themselves something that even people we accuse of being in the circle of those with bats rarely allow. The second reason is that, by discussing the concept of reforms in the Ministry of Interior, I had the opportunity to listen to Mrs. Rector, to do my best to meet her expectations, agreeing what she wants with the responsible institutions. What she wanted, as well as her colleagues, was for them to remain first category employees, which does not meet any of the rules and requirements laid down in the Ministry of Interior Act. These people are true that they will probably have greater self-esteem if they are police officers, but the conditions under which they work, the qualities they need to possess, do not meet these requirements. The offer that's been made. We in the new Law divide the different types of employees under the three laws on which they work, according to the working conditions under which they work. There can be no exception to this principle. That's my firm conviction. In interagency coordination in the government, there was a series of positions in this direction, including the Ministry of Education and Science. We discussed with the Rector and her deputy the opportunities for development and improvement of the activities at the Ministry of Interior Academy with a view to responding to meeting the needs of the Ministry of Interior more quickly to learn, to reduce the Bachelor's degree at the expense of the Master's Programs, to have higher quality training and to concentrate efforts on continuous training and the Center for Professional Skills. This is a new project that we are proposing, and I think it meets the needs of the Ministry of Interior at the moment. Despite these conversations, and although they have witnessed all my efforts to respond to their demands, they have allowed themselves something that has not happened in the Ministry of Interior, I have personally checked, to jump certain levels to conduct a policy that is not in line with the policy of the Ministry. I, as Minister, can neither tolerate nor allow such behavior. That's why I asked for my resignation. I think the reasons for this are absolutely clear to both the lady and the other employees. It is within my authority to decide whether certain employees comply with the requirements that the Ministry has with them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u213	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Here's a line, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior! Mrs. Bachvarova, no one is questioning your right as Minister to exercise character and to do as you think is lawful and in the interests of the Ministry of Interior. It would be good, however, with the same swing and respect that you should also address those employees in the Ministry of Interior system who are doing much of their responsibilities. Here, first of all, I would point to all those missed opportunities for dealing with domestic crime, the way the border service is carried and a number of other issues. Otherwise, you get the feeling of double standard. I have no intention of arguing over the problems of the Ministry of Interior Academy. It is obvious that these conditions and the level of teaching are far from the levels that were at the time of the training of the current Prime Minister Mr. Borisov, but it is still necessary for the employees to be at the Academy, either in the other units, to be aware of the planned changes to the Ministry of Interior Act. Because we are also witnessing today a continuous, continuous process of disagreement, demotivation by all employees of the Ministry of Interior. And yesterday there were media disputes and disagreements of trade unions representatives, including representatives of political leadership. It is obvious that this process has not subsided, it will not be crossed and everything depends on your skills, on your capabilities and the guarantee that the Prime Minister gives for the stability of this system. We are witnessing various national meetings, an initiative of the Attorney General for the Gendarmerie. So was this not a practice in the past National Assembly? I did not for a reason replicate my colleague Karakachanov, because everything valuable and useful that the previous government had done was lightly rejected. In this is the lack of all of us, we make no exception, and we, who are easily treating all the positive and pressing actions of the representatives of the security authorities to bring a little bit of order into our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u215	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u216	Dear Mr. Merdjanov, I would like to assure you that I am the last person to reject a good idea for the Ministry of Interior just because it was proposed for implementation by someone else. I don't even allow myself to publicly declare criticism of previous guidelines that I can do, because I think this is not in the interest of the institution. I'm trying to solve these problems. Any idea is a good idea. The Attorney General allowed himself a comment that was not a reply to the leadership. I'm sorry you took it that way. With regard to the changes and the concept of reform, expressed in the WID of the Ministry of Interior Act, I can say that we have complied with all the rules for ensuring publicity on the proposed changes. We lived through something in November. I wouldn't want to, I wouldn't let that happen this time. The first ones I've informed of what the changes contain are the unions that were invited to a meeting. I personally informed them, and then continued the discussions with my colleagues about clarification. There have been some changes to the first version of what they wanted from the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. After the discussion, we had to accept the notes of the other ministries as well. Maybe it's the only difference. I cannot understand the demands of the trade unions, because they are currently coming up with opinions that have not been declared during these discussions. On the contrary, there is an exact opposite opinion, but I will also save it. During my meetings at the annual meetings, I inform the staff of the Ministry of Interior. First, I've informed all the directors of territorial directorates what we do to inform the employees. Where I was able to go, I've informed all the employees. The bill itself was uploaded 14 days for public consultation. With regard to publicity, apart from a noisy press conference, which I would not like to do, everything else has been done. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior and I had three meetings on this issue in a broad composition, one of which was with the broadest composition of the operational and political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. They are informed about these positions and about our arguments. There's been an exchange of letters. I think there is a tendency to attack the Ministry of Interior on this line at the moment, but it does not stand up to objective facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I do not see who can ask a question. [[The DPS Parliamentary Group is absent from the auditorium.]] From the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group? Mr. Peter Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! My question concerns judicial reform and I will therefore refer it to Mrs. Kuneva. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, with the amendments to the Constitution which the National Assembly adopted at the end of last year, I assume you remember that we have recorded additional powers of the Inspectorate, including integrity checks, checks on the property declarations of magistrates and so on, i.e. quite serious additional powers that the Inspectorate must exercise. They are undoubtedly important and are in the direction of genuine guaranteeing the independence of the judiciary and quality performance of functions by magistrates. However, what is perhaps a miss of the National Assembly is that, in the Transitional and Final Rules, we did not write a text to specify exactly how the transition between the current Commission for Conflict of Interest and the current powers of the Inspectorate will be made and what we proposed under the Constitution as powers. As we all know, the Constitution has a direct effect. It turns out that they should already start fulfilling these additional obligations. The problem stems from the fact that in the Judicial Law their capacity is limited, including as a number of employees in the administration. At the moment, physically, they can't take on the property declarations and the checks, the checks for conflict of interest and everything else about magistrates. I think it is good to think here, and in connection with the forthcoming legislative initiatives that will come from the Council of Ministers for amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, as soon as possible these things are scheduled and set up there, so that no period of vacuum is actually obtained, in which the Inspector to the Supreme Court is expected to perform these functions, while he does not have the capacity and powers given by law purely practically to implement them, and at the same time the Constitution requires them to do so. I am using today's blitzcontrol only to draw your attention to this, and please bear in mind this in the next legislative initiatives for amendments to the Law on the Judiciary an hour rather with joint efforts to resolve the problem and not to get into a situation of vacuum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u220	Mr. Slavov, I have already received a request from the Reformation Block on Anti-Corruption Law, and I answered in detail there. Now I will concentrate only on your question. Yes, there must be a connection between the two laws. This is the concept that we proposed today at an operational meeting. I stress that my colleagues at the operational meeting supported the general logic of the Law. Mrs. Tochkova the Chief Judicial Inspector and the Minister of Justice were discussing the Law. The solution we propose is this. The general inspection should be done by the judicial inspectorate, and if they notice a non-compliance where a deeper inspection is required, which is required both more and well equipped with technical inspectors, because you know that much of the checks are indeed a matter of detecting information systems, then to refer to the new desk. That's the solution we're proposing. I am using this case again to say that the Law has been dealt personally by my parliamentary secretary to each of the groups that support the government. You can see it and make your comment to the texts. I'll read it with attention, and whatever it takes, we'll cover it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. There's no wish for a line. From the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front "The People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies Deputy Prime Ministers! My question will be to Deputy Prime Minister Meglena Kuneva. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for years the Bulgarian state and most of all the Bulgarian business became a hostage of the blockades by the Greek farmers. In the course of the events we realized that the Bulgarian government, unfortunately, says it not in bad words, is helpless to solve the problems created by 200-300 Greek farmers. You, as Deputy Prime Minister, coordinating on European policies, should answer: what compensatory mechanisms are there regarding the violation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and its fundamental principles for the movement of goods, people and capital? Has the Bulgarian state acted to compensate the Bulgarian business for the damage caused over the past few years? I'm asking the question, because solving lawsuits can take years. No one knows what will be and the way out of them. Bulgaria as a country and the Bulgarian government in particular, however, is obliged to pursue a policy that will compensate the losses that are not the fault of our business, but precisely and clearly know that if there are such unpleasant events in the future from the point of view of blockades which are not excluded immediately after the holidays, the Bulgarian business will be calm that it will be compensated by the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union will be applied precisely, clearly and strictly, as a member state of this Union. Please answer is there any action taken in relation to compensation? If accepted, what are the procedures? Will the Bulgarian business be compensated after all for its damage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u223	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Deputy Prime Minister Kuneva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u224	Dear Mr. Bajraktarov, it was indeed a very difficult question and losses have been made................................................................................ that is a fact. The blockade was raised on Sunday.. something we are all happy about, and traffic is taking place normally, but it is related to acute and long-term internal political problems in Greece itself, that is, we do not know if it will come to this again. Greek farmers use this tool to get what they claim from their government. The issue is not resolved in this sense and should not be excluded from relapses of protest actions. During the blockade, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs used the entire instrument of bilateral diplomacy to resolve the issue and this was actually the safest approach. Our embassy in Athens, as well as the Consulate General in Thessaloniki, were extremely active in this direction. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been very active. In connection with the blockade, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Permanent Representation in Brussels, officially informed the European Commission, even raised a question at a meeting and at the College of Commissioners, I put it at a meeting What the Prime Minister said this Friday was actually the truth. They admitted that they felt helpless to solve their internal political problem, which we suffer from. Blocking prevents the import and export of goods from Bulgaria and Bulgaria and the transit of goods. Indeed, you are right about the freedom of movement of goods and people within the European space. We demand urgent action from the Commission. The Bulgarian side is looking for the necessary mechanisms for possible compensation of the Bulgarian private legal entities affected by the blockade. What I know is that when the whole European Union suffers from closing trade relations, as it was with Russia, then we have a common European reaction and it is political. Then the European Commission can give its budget compensation, as Bulgaria has received, for the lack of this market. Here, however, we rely on bilateral relations and the filing of claims, as you yourself said. That is, to ask the European Commission for compensation for the Greek farmers blocking our border, I would not bet on this strategy. We must, directly with Greece and with claims before a Greek court, if that is necessary before a European court, we must achieve ours. These cases are really not quick, but their effect is upon them and there is no way that they can be judged unjustly. At least in the cases I've seen, the first trade case between France and Germany ended with a victory for the country that incarcerated losses.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u225	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Bayraktarov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, we are very careful to monitor this really serious problem. We have no reproach on the Bulgarian government, to be honest. I can even say my admiration to the Minister of Transport Mr. Moskovski, who has also made a great effort. It is clear to us that when statehood is lacking in a country, there is no way that we and our government can have any influence whatsoever. However, we are talking here now about a very serious relapse related to the violation of the fundamental principles set out in 1957 with the signing of the Treaty of Rome for the creation of the European Union. It was in this direction that I paid attention to you, but I didn't get an answer. Because it is not a matter of strategy here, but it is a matter of relations not even between two allied countries in terms of both Member States being members of the European Union. This is about a rude violation of the fundamental principles on which the European Union is functioning and is built, namely, as I said, the free movement of goods and capital, free movement of people, that is, Bulgaria has suffered once harm precisely from this, respecting as a state a member of the European Union, the sanctions imposed on Russia, but we cannot continue to take over and the European Commission and the European Union to be one, and I will say it, unfortunately, a passive observer of everything that is happening. It cannot be that our business, our economy, is constantly losing, that unemployment is being stimulated in this way, that there is an increase in prices, given that it is being violated here, again, I say, fundamental principles for the functioning of the European Union. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Mr. Chairman. I know other cases of dealing with such cases, but they usually end within 10 years. During these 10 years, if the Bulgarian government is not urging the European Commission, this means that every year our business, our carriers will be hostages to such internal political problems of our neighbouring country. I hope you understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Would you like to take advantage of the back? No. The next question is from the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center. Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Iglev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u228	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! My question is to Mrs. Kuneva on Bulgaria's overall policy towards foreigners outside Bulgaria and in particular the Western outskirts. In the last two years, I visited Bosilegrad and the villages around it several times. Last year I attended the celebration on the occasion of the Day of Slavic Writing and Culture in the Bosilegrad village of Izvor. The celebration has been celebrated for ten years, but to my surprise I learned from the Bulgarians in Bosilegrad that the mayor forbids the presence of the festival. This year I visited Bosilegrad as part of the parliamentary delegation on the occasion of the hanging of the Apostle of Liberty Vasil Levski. People complained again about their attitude because of the fact that they are ethnic Bulgarians. The Bulgarian population in the Western suburbs has repeatedly been subjected to repression by the official authorities in Serbia. The rights of our countrymen are often trampled. Bulgarians are subject to bans and restrictions. In this regard, I ask you to answer: are you in contact with the Bulgarian population in Bosilegrad? What actions do you take to protect his rights in Bosilegrad? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u229	Thank you, dear Mr. Iglev. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u230	Dear Mr. People's Representative, in fact Bosilegrad is part of the examples that we can give, but I think that within this blitzcontrol it is more important to hear once again what the common policy of the state is with regard to Bulgarians abroad, because this will give us the whole picture, including with regard to the case you are talking about. It's about an institution we expect a lot from. This is the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. We want an amendment to the Agency's Rules of Procedure and an increase in its administrative capacity. Their goal is to optimize the activity, which is why it is proposed to increase the total number of staff from 25 to 35 staff. However, due to the requirements of the Administrative Board, of course, these changes must be seriously coordinated and state numbers transferred from the current administration to the Agency. A letter was sent to Mrs Bachvarova's office on February 26th. It's literally been a few days, and soon they'll give us an answer. The other changes to the Agency are also related to the request to drop the requirement for foreigners of Bulgarian origin to prove sufficient resources. I also believe that this is a question that has a good answer. This deepens the policy of integration of people of Bulgarian origin. For my part, I would like to tell you that as Minister of Education and Science this year, the reception of our compatriots is increased from 300 to 1000 for higher schools, which seems to me that it needs to be very good and very clear in this building. To Bosillegrad. Of course, Sunday schools, talks with the groups are currently under way and consultations of the informal Advisory Council for organizing elections for permanent councils of Bulgarians abroad. Especially for Bosillegrad. For 20 years there have been serious problems and they are known not only in relation to the Serbian state against the Bulgarians, but also in relation to the minority itself. We have always insisted on the unity of our minority there. This is stated in every visit of Bulgarian representatives. Now there will be progress with the textbooks. We've been saying for 20 years there's gonna be books. Now, for the 2016 school year, this is really a real chance. These are the things that I can tell you specifically about Bosilegrad through increasing the capacity of the Agency, through expanding the opportunities for acquisition of Bulgarian citizenship and through the things that the Ministry of Education and Science does. I would be happy if you would promote the fact that from this year we will have 300 to 1000 people to study in Bulgarian universities. I hope a lot of them are from Bosillegrad.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u231	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Iglev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, when I visit Bosilegrad next time, I will personally announce the fact about the increase in the number of students from 300 to 1000 that the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad is working well. I see you've done a lot of work for the books, for the reception. These are positive things. It is also imperative that adequate measures are taken urgently in relation to the attitude towards the Bulgarian minority in Bosilegrad. People get scared. That's the truth. Last year I brought the same question to Minister Mitov, but he didn't answer me. Your answer is really satisfactory and good. Next time I visit Bosilegrad and the villages around him, I will give them full information about what is happening and that they are not forgotten that they are thought of with reception, with textbooks, with everything they can. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Iglev. Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u234	Just one sentence. There are elections in Serbia. We need to keep that in mind, too. I hope that with every next government, relations can be better.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u235	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. I do not see any representatives from the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. The ABB Parliamentary Group has no questions. Non-members of parliamentary groups of Members of the National Assembly shall not. That concludes parliamentary control. You have the floor, Mrs. Zaharieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! Tomorrow we will celebrate the National Holiday of the Republic of Bulgaria 3 March. This is the date on which we celebrate the resurrected Bulgarian statehood. March 3rd is a day of honor and dignity, of fame and feat, but most of all this is a day when we show our appreciation for the sacrifice of the thousands of heroes who died 138 years ago in the name of our national liberation. The Bulgarian spirit has proved many times over the centuries that it cannot be broken. The Bulgarian people cannot be subject to anyone's interests because we have a history that guarantees us the self-esteem of free people. Today we can proudly defend our positions as a member of the European Union because the government of Mr Boyko Borisov and the parliamentary majority have the full confidence of the European institutions. In the last year we have achieved a great deal and showed that Bulgaria has only one worthy path of development. Dear colleagues, the preservation of Bulgarian statehood and national spirit is the main responsibility of all of us................................................................................................ It's our duty that sits high above personal or party interest. All sorts of provocations are trying to bring down the built-up solid foundations and destroy the national interest through deliberate feuds and frank nihilism. But we are obliged to continue to build and protect the stability of our country, because this is the covenant of our ancestors. The stability of the state is a responsibility that we have taken to all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their political views and biases. On the eve of March 3 we state that, apart from strong external borders and eternal historical memory, Bulgaria more than ever needs responsible government behaviour, all political leaders and parties. March 3rd is a day of humility and honor to the great Bulgarians who gave their lives for the freedom of Bulgaria. Bow to their memory! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-02.u237	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any other declarations on behalf of groups, procedures? I won't. With this, we have completely exhausted the agenda that we have adopted. I wish you a proper welcome to the National Festival! The next regular meeting is March 9th at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
