ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u1	There is a quorum. I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] According to the weekly programme we have adopted as point one, the following is: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE COURT OF JUSTICE. Importer is the Council of Ministers. He was accepted in the first vote on 16 March 2016. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Judicial Tribunal Act No 602-01-10 on 7 March 2016. The Law on the Judiciary was amended and supplemented by the Law on the Law on the Judiciary. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u3	Colleagues, speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the name of the Import Act. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The name is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u4	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote § 1. Vote 124 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u6	Proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the Art. 15. When he considers that a law is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the court, prosecutor or investigator does not apply this law. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u7	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose to adopt a norm that is rather declarative and is of the category of common legal, well-known, I would say, principles that are at the heart of the legal order. The rule of law and the rule of law, which is shared, I hope, by everyone, are based precisely on the rule of the Constitution. Therefore, the proposed norm, if adopted, will help to promote the rule of law and the constitutionally established rule of law and rule of law. I would like to emphasise that without the rule of law we cannot talk about an independent judiciary, so this norm will also help to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. And since there is some, albeit minimal danger of misunderstanding what we are proposing, I would like to emphasise that it is about implementing a legal norm and it is about a specific case and resolving a specific dispute. So allow me on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 to make an additional editorial proposal, Madam President. The text I propose to supplement to the specific body...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u9	This text is not supported. Proposals in this House shall be made in respect of Commission texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u10	Okay. There is no obstacle to such acts being issued now, there is no obstacle to magistrates at the moment to state and to base themselves in their motives on the direct application of the constitutional norm. However, it seems to me that it is good in the Law on the Judiciary as a fundamental law on the structure and organisation of the work of the court and of the other bodies, to adopt precisely such a norm and thus to stimulate the rule of law and the rule of law. Thank you for your attention. I hope that you will support this proposal in principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u11	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Atanasov for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In short, the colleague's proposal is related to giving unconstitutional rights to the prosecutor, investigator and court, and there is only one case in the peace of law that is § 3 of the Constitution, where the court with regard to old laws could rule in such a case. The proposal is absolutely unconstitutional and contrary to the Constitution, so I suggest we not accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u13	Second line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Georgiev, I am pleased with your initiative, but you want investigators, prosecutors and judges to be given powers equal to the Constitutional Court. There is a hierarchy of acts in the state, written through the Constitution. We all know the old Roman principle: Dura lex, sed lex. When a Law has been passed by the relevant authority, i.e. by the National Assembly, it must be applied by absolutely all authorities and respected by all citizens. If it is unconstitutional, there is order to refer to the Constitutional Court and to declare its unconstitutionality. So the investigator, the prosecutor and the court cannot practically legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u15	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm afraid you may not understand what we're proposing. There is nothing unconstitutional in this norm, moreover, that it in its larger content repeats the constitutional norm of art. 5, para. 2 and it is not about powers of magistrates equal to the Constitutional Court. We are talking here about the application of the Constitution in a specific case and a specific dispute, not the annulment of regulations. Think about it a little bit. If there is a contradiction between a minister's regulation, for example of transport or your favorite Moskov, with the law, which norm will the court apply? [[Reply on the right.]] It's nothing else! If there is a contradiction between the legal norm and an international act, which norm will the court apply? It's the same logic here. It is simply in this particular case that the court refers to the relevant constitutional norm which it believes should be applied and applied. I'm telling you right now, it's okay to do this. Probably thousands of magistrates in their motives for the relevant acts refer to the Constitution. That's why we're talking, not about abolishing regulations and norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u17	Any other speeches? I won't. I vote on Mr. Georgiev's proposal and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 130 MPs: 21, Against 56, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u19	Statements on the reported three paragraphs.. they are by importer, supported entirely by the Commission? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. They voted 122 MPs: 113, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u20	Paragraph 5. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov: In § 5: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 3 is created a new sentence second with the text below, and the previous sentence second becomes a sentence third: The proposals can reproduce and make nominations made to the National Assembly by non-governmental organizations registered for carrying out public useful activities, professional or academic organizations. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 19 of this Protocol shall apply from the The Members of the Supreme Judicial Council elected by the National Assembly shall be made by the Members of the National Assembly by colleges no later than two months before the election of the committee on para. 2. The proposals shall be subject to: 1. detailed written reasons for the professional and moral qualities of candidates, including expressed opinions from professional, academic and other organisations; 2. documents for completed higher education in the specialty of Law and documents related to the requirements for incompatibility, as well as documents for legal internship and career development of the applicant. (4) The proposals shall be made after the written consent of each candidate is taken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u21	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u22	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! I take the floor to protect briefly my proposal with an application for an editorial amendment in it, namely the words to be replaced by the words to be based. Thus the text will be done: The proposals can also be based on the nominations made by the National Assembly by non-governmental organizations....................................................... the proposals made by the National Assembly............................ I think it makes the text much more correct, allows for greater freedom of public representation if it recognizes such a proposal from the non-governmental sector and it seems to me that it is a good idea to write it explicitly and as an opportunity in the Law. First of all, this is respect for the non-governmental sector, which, more than once, I would say, has helped the National Assembly with good applications for various bodies that are elected by the National Assembly. Of course, second, so the text is more correct, and the MPs will have greater freedom in their choice, including making additions to these proposals. But it's also important for another reason. I think that there is also a proposal for the MPs themselves when it is known that it comes from the non-governmental sector, i.e. it is a non-party application, would be much more interesting and would largely eliminate some purely political disputes and oppositions. We all know very well how important it is for the Supreme Judicial Council to elect people not by political commitment and not by people who slave for political purposes, but by really serving the independence of the judiciary and the state interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u23	Mr. Slavov, you will only have to place your proposal in the Commission text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u24	Then it stays the way I suggested it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u25	Okay, stay as you suggested. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 16 against 19, 76 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 5 and edited by the Commission, in accordance with its report, we are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 103, against 3, abstention 2. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u26	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. According to § 11 the proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Article 29 is amended as follows: Art. 29. (1) The elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council shall not receive remuneration for their work in committees to the Council. (2) For elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council the provisions of art. ) (a.k.a. Art. 1, art. Art. 219, Art. 219 Art. 221, Art. Article 224 330.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u27	Statements? Mr. Martin Dimitrov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u28	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just two months ago, the MPs from GERB and the Reformation Bloc requested a change of composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. Two months later, it is proposed that the salaries of the representatives, of the people, in practice to the administrators of the Supreme Judicial Council be equalised with the salaries of the Supreme Judges to the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, to the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and to the Prosecutor General. I wonder in those two months what happened? From a request for resignation at the beginning, only two months ago, and changing the composition of this body, we now want them to become one of the highest paid in the country! When, ladies and gentlemen, wages are fixed, there must be justice, it must be clear what kind of work wages come for. From information from the media because I am not a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I read that the proposal came from a member of the Patriotic Front, and, of course, from members of the BSP. A supreme judge or member of the VCC, honourable Members, decides hundreds of cases of the year, he is extremely busy and does a great deal of work. Until now, the salaries of the Supreme Judicial Council have been as much as of a Supreme Judge, of a man who works in the VCC or you. Now, however, a decision has suddenly been made about a drastic increase in their salaries. I don't see and I don't understand logic! Besides, keep something else in mind. The President of the Supreme Judicial Council, the President of the VCC and the Prosecutor General, in addition to participating by law in the meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council, they manage the VCC, the Supreme Prosecutor and the Prosecutor General in Bulgaria, they perform two different key functions and therefore it is logical that their salaries will be higher. Now comes the logical question and I ask you all who will vote on this topic, but you do not say any arguments, I call you to stand up and argue! It is particularly important that the colleagues from GERB and the Reformation bloc, who wanted the replacement of the Supreme Judicial Council, become and say what changed for them for these two months, that from a request for replacement now they will want to be one of the highest paid in the state............................... the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, so will the salaries in the state. One member of the Supreme Judicial Council, for example, will be much better paid by the Bulgarian Prime Minister. And I will ask you: does one member of the Supreme Judicial Council do more work than the Bulgarian Prime Minister?! If you want, does it work more than the Justice Minister?! In Bulgaria we must learn to have justice, to have order in this country! There is nothing to come up with, a thought to come up and make a suggestion, and others, without arguing, without saying anything, I think that today will also be the way the debate will be said in the Chamber, but you will vote directly, but this means a very bad impression, a very bad taste. What will a judge at the Supreme Court of Cassation say who decides hundreds of cases per year that the administrators of the Supreme Judicial Council will now take more than he does? So, what's the reason, what's the logic, what's the point of this proposal of yours?! What will the Presidents of the Supreme Courts say? The Supreme Courts and the Supreme Courts work in two functions, they rule the Supreme Court, they are also members of the Supreme Judicial Council and will take so much that their salaries will be equal to those of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. So, what's the logic? Where did you see justice, fellow Members?! By the way, I am not surprised that this was suggested by colleagues from BSP. At least they're consistent. They wanted this Supreme Judicial Council, they never wanted his shift! Even if it's up to them, they're gonna propose that he be incompetent for life! That wouldn't surprise me. However, I do not understand the positions of the parties on the right, the center of the Patriotic Front, the Reformation Block and GERB. I hope you will first stand up and answer us, tell us the essence and logic of this proposal, which, if you'll excuse me, sounds very scandalous, sounds unfair, sounds illogical! I also remember the words of Prime Minister Borisov, who said so: "It is important in the state that no one gets more from me. " That is what the Prime Minister said. It is important that no one in the country gets more from me. " - Well, what are you guys doing?! It turned out that members of the Supreme Judicial Council would take almost twice as much as the Prime Minister. What's the logic?! Do they do twice as much work?! I call on you to correct yourself on this subject, to have a serious debate, to hear the arguments and to make a fair and reasonable decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. Second line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u30	Honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor, mainly to appeal to support the original text by importing the text of the Council of Ministers. With this frankly ill-advised proposal, and I'm saying it with a clear conscience that it's really unthinkable, see what happens. The current paragraph of Article 3 shall be deleted. 29, which says how much is the remuneration of a regular member of the Supreme Judicial Council. She says it equals a judge at the Supreme Court of Cassation. This paragraph is dismissed, and in its place comes a paragraph which says the following: For elected members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the provisions of art. ) (a.k.a. Art. 1, art. 219, and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u31	Mr. Slavov, may I remind you that you are giving a reply to the MP Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u32	Yes, actually, my line to you, Mr. Dimitrov, is not to worry. Even if we accept this term, nothing will come out of it. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Rather, it can be said that regular members of the Supreme Judicial Council can be left without wages at all. Now I'm going to explain to you why this could happen, which I think nobody in this room wants to happen! If in art. 29 We shall record that the rules of Article apply. 218, which says what is the salary of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General, will obviously reproduce the text of art. 218 once again, but that does not mean that members of the Supreme Judicial Council will receive the same wages as the three great ones. You know what I mean? The reference made in the way here will obviously not do the work the importers wanted to achieve. On the contrary, unfortunately, I am convinced that perhaps we will leave the people in the Supreme Judicial Council without pay. I call on you to support the initial text of the Member of the Council of Ministers and not to do such experiments on a knee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Second line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dimitrov, for correctness I take the line, otherwise I will make a detailed statement in the normal time. I would like to point out that the reference norm actually refers to the remuneration of all constitutional judges. Therefore, the remuneration of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council as a base is equal to the remuneration of a member of the Constitutional Court. In order for colleagues to be able to navigate and not to suffer on the level of remuneration of the senior judges, who decided many cases, it was very few. The average remuneration of a member of the Supreme Court of Cassation started from BGN 4,500, colleagues! That's without the 40 percent above that are for time served! So please don't do free manipulations. Please do not read any calculations in some editions which are obviously quite far from mathematics and reality. I will explain in detail the whole argumentation of this proposal after the proposer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u36	Dear colleagues, let's simplify things now. First of all, thank you for receiving a reply from a representative of GERB because I was afraid that there would be no progress. But let's simplify things this way. Until now, a member of the Supreme Judicial Council has been paid as much as a judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation. What does change have to do with it? Or another way of putting it: why has this been so far and been seen as fair? What has changed suddenly, i.e. what new has happened to give up this approach so far, which has been so many years, and colleagues from GERB to support the BSP's proposal to basically pay the members of the Supreme Judicial Council to equalize that of the Supreme Judges and the Prosecutor General? Something must have happened, we must have some big change that would require such an increase in pay! And here you have to explain to us what's new and what requires such a change. Something must have happened.. whether they have new powers, whether they will do more work. What is the change that requires this increase in wages? And what are you going to explain to this same Supreme Court of Cassation judge, who, I repeat, solves hundreds of cases, that is exactly right, and who will receive less from the Supreme Judicial Council administrator? Please remember to answer our question: why two months ago did we want together the replacement of the Supreme Judicial Council, and now suddenly the concept has changed so much that you propose that they be one of the highest paid in the state? All I'm asking you is, what's changed in these two months? What does this change require? Something must have happened, and you who offer it, who support it, must explain to us so that we can understand what happened. Why have you so far considered in a number of parliaments that a payment equal to the payment of the Supreme Judge of the VCC is sufficient, and now you decide that it is no longer so and that it should be increased and equal to the payment of the Supreme Judges? The only possible logic, honourable Members, is to explain new obligations that must be fulfilled, a new job that must be done by the Supreme Judicial Council. And since I am not from the Legal Commission, I repeat, I respect your in-depth knowledge of matter, I ask you, colleagues, to explain in detail so that we all understand, and those who are not lawyers, what are the new obligations of the Supreme Judicial Council, which impose higher pay. That is the simple question and I ask you for an equally simple and clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. For the next speech was signed by the People's Representative Metodi Andreev. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'm not a lawyer either, and I'm not a member of the Legal Committee in question. There people have discussed the proposal, found their explanation, which is hard to understand. Usually in Bulgaria, when it comes to raising wages, there should be some criteria to meet. There are criteria for all other positions in this country, accreditations, indices and a bunch of other procedures to prove the effectiveness of a group of people's work. We have seen the worst efficiency for years with regard to the work of the Supreme Judicial Council. Since I am not a lawyer, I will give you another explanation of what is happening in our judicial system as a result of this personnel activity that the Supreme Judicial Council has been doing for many years. I'm a construction engineer. When a building collapses, it doesn't mean that all the elements are destroyed in it. On the contrary, in the collapse of the building there are many elements that are in good constructive condition! But when the building collapsed, it was usually a major element that suffered severe damage for some reason, it suffered serious damage. I am telling you that the authority of the judiciary has collapsed not because all judges, prosecutors and investigators in it have lost the trust of the people, but because the foundation of the judiciary on which it is built, on which it is built, has been compromised. Undoubtedly, this foundation of the judiciary is the Supreme Judicial Council, which is the main body of the system. And I can't understand any arguments being put here: how can we become accomplices for such a bad job? Look, you know that in Bulgaria there is no good talk about politicians and I have to tell you that with such actions this trend will increase even further, because 92% of Bulgarian citizens are convinced that we do not have effective and fair justice, that our justice system is not working well. For this, of course, one of the main reasons are the personnel appointments to the Supreme Judicial Council! Should I remind you of the scandals over the years? Should I remind you of the tsunami, of a typhoon scandal just two months ago? To what do we want an increase in these salaries? I'll never support this thing, ever! Because I was raised in this way, I give money for a job well done, and I do not give money in advance in the hope that they will have a good impact on the further work of the body in question! So far we do not have such data, we do not have such indicators to give us reason to vote on this proposal. I absolutely say: I will not vote for the proposal, I will vote against it. And I call on all the people in this House who have a conscience to support what I intend to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u39	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I'm an importer, I'm going to have to deal with all the issues. I'll talk fast so I can fit in time. I haven't spoken since the adoption of the budget, but I have to. I will start with the civil sector "Open society" and I quote: "The size of remuneration does not matter as a motive for better people to enter the air force." Well, then let's make it free! The members of the SJC can only be recruited among lawyers with a certain experience and status in their profession, i.e. they are already earning well. If someone becomes a member of the Supreme Judicial Council to receive more money than they already receive, he is certainly not there. During communism, there was a saying.... that does not work, must not eat............................................................................................... must Now, who is not a king, must not become a member. Is that how it goes? Are we entering a property value? They have to be rich and only then to be elected? Just rhetorically asking: and these people from various societies who speak, are they working for free or against any grant remuneration? Because if they get paid, they're not for seats, and we have to listen to them. And these rewards, recognition that incompetent people write articles and try to manipulate society, or that they are very competent people? Another quote: Over one threshold of decency is the amount of remuneration, it does not matter the means of reducing corruption. Great! I expect the future anti-corruption body to work without wages so as not to have to... Because if they didn't have the right remuneration, why didn't they just go there? Regarding the threshold. Tell me, you gentlemen, when one of your members was a commissioner, did he not receive as much as the entire Bulgarian government taken together? Where was the threshold then?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u41	Who paid his salary?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u42	In my opinion, this woman received a fair reward for her position, no matter what moral corrective she was trying to be. But if we accept your motives that, after receiving wages, she is unworthy of her post, and she writes the Anti-Corruption Act. When we wanted to do the judicial reform, we said: we want justice to be swift, fair, without political interference. No one mentioned that she wanted to be free. A judge at the debate thought the salaries were high. Why didn't you offer to freeze them to the entire justice system? I think they're small. What would a judge from I don't know who you are? Well, he'll get the same reward if he's elected to this highest representative body that he's getting right now, not going there on punishment. We want to choose people with high moral qualities, not scavengers who stand for nothing. Agree, isn't the Supreme Judicial Council the government of the judiciary? Who has more authority than him? Why in the executive power do we believe that there is one gradation and above are the ministers who receive the highest remuneration because they bear the greatest responsibility? In the judiciary we choose with a whole system of competitions people to be a kind of government of the judiciary, and it is normal to receive their highest remuneration. Then when they get back to their jobs, they get what's rightfully theirs. Don't people in the judiciary work with high moral and professional standards? We listen to them in the National Assembly, we debate, we elect them as Inspectorate, I cannot imagine that someone will not respect the judiciary or the Supreme Judicial Council, but will want everyone else to do so. But let's move on to a more open society of parliament. The three big ones worked hard. Do we work the same here in Parliament? Can you tell me that I, who am from 1980 with a work experience, and another who has his first service in parliament, work differently? No, we have equal rights, equal responsibilities, equal responsibilities. And that's why our starting salary is the same. The other is for work experience. There are committees that work less, there are committees that are extremely busy. Do we divide and do we want someone to get different from the others? No, we're the same, because every voice of any one of you weighs the same. There are colleagues who do not come home to Bulgaria, who are absent today, others we have not left Bulgaria. Is that a criterion to ask for a pay gap? No, everyone fulfills their duties in the committee on which he is, one is more charged, one less. But notice, here in Parliament, we all get the same salaries for committees and the same starting salaries as MPs, and for others we want to have some other unfair differences. We want this power to be independent of the Supreme Judicial Council, and we are constantly showing how we can cut off her money and manipulate her. Is she independent then? I will end with the words of the Attorney General. When we discussed the Constitution, we wanted him to be chosen in a special order, but then everyone who decides to be able to take it off. He said: "We make the changes not for me, I am chosen, but for those after me who do not know who they will be, and they want to seek. Right now, this amendment isn't about the current members that someone doesn't like, but about the next ones coming after us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u43	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u44	I'm locking up with a simple answer that the esteemed MP asked for. It's a well-known truth that the wheel of history is turned by the pedals, but let's leave the story to them, and we make the present decision. I urge you to vote. [[Applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov. You've made a request for a line, you're giving it up? Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Slavov. You're giving up? Next statement by the MP Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to systematically answer in some way the questions raised by the previous speakers on the basis of the discussion held in the Legal Committee. Is the reward increased or maintained? I would love it if some of my colleagues who put this issue didn't talk on the phone, but still listen. At the request of the Union of Judges and in the deliberations of the Judicial Reform Council, we unanimously assumed that the component.. additional remuneration for participation in committees............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I'm not gonna comment on whether it's weird or not, why some judges want a reduction in the remuneration of other judges who are now temporarily their superiors. This storyline continued in the debates in the Legal Committee. Judges were against the mime, to call it an increase, because there is no increase. There is a drop of additional remuneration for participation in committees. Once again: the additional remuneration for participation in committees is dropped. In this situation, the Commission must, or should we not, worsen the status and status of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council? Yes, the criterion of participation in committees is not objective. Yeah, it's an extra reward, let's get rid of it! We're getting rid of it. Okay, let's respect the request of the guild and the college, remove that reward if it's determined unfairly. The change in the base of yes, there is as a logic some compensation to accurately compensate for the base, not to deteriorate, not to have a radical change in the amount of the total remuneration. Regarding the question whether or not this is an assessment, I will say: it is not an assessment. It's not an evaluation! It is not an assessment because this remuneration should work in the future. It should act both for the remainder of the term of office of this Supreme Judicial Council and for the future for the next Judicial Council. I asked some of the judges in the Commission: who is interested in the members of the Supreme Judicial Council being poor, unhappy or poorly paid? Who? How will we demand independence from them if they receive a lower remuneration than their other colleagues, say, the President of the District Court or the President of the Appeals Court? If they receive lower remuneration from these presidents, tomorrow how will we fill the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council with precisely quality magistrates who should take them from this particular management of the judicial system where the heads of administrative and appeal courts are. Who is interested in this poverty? Yes, we critics could easily correct and punish, but we abstained. But inside the courthouse, they obviously want to punish each other. Is that a good thing? Is that what we're supposed to encourage? In the first line, I tried to give you comparable criteria. The constitutional judge is also a judge, the constitutional judges look at ten constitutional cases a year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u47	Ten of them!?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u48	Yeah. We are also talking about the Supreme Judicial Council. Indeed, the body, which, by design, by legal structure, should, by requirement, be impartially in charge of the judiciary and the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The first question is, if, Mr. Kirilov, in GERB you are of that opinion, why are you waiting for BSP and MP from the Patriotic Front to present it to you as a proposal and you didn't bring it in? I mean, why do you think if you think you have to raise your wages like that, why don't you offer it to yourself and wait for someone else to offer it to you? Interesting. And what would have happened if those others hadn't done it or you had settled with them? Or did you agree with them, but you didn't want this to be public? Is that what this is about? My second question is this: you claim, Mr. Kirilov, that they will receive as much as they have received so far, only is this true? How many have they received so far to participate in a meeting? How much they have been paid, you have to disclose this as information to find out if what you are saying is true. I mean, do you commit that their salaries will not be raised, as you say? Because that's what you said about not raising their salaries, only this should be proved by financial justification, not by random proposals, behind which there is no account, no analysis, as no one knows in Bulgaria outside the Supreme Judicial Council, the public does not know how much they have received at the moment for participation in the specific meetings. I also ask myself: what is the logic of removing one way of paying them and replacing them with another? But the important question, Mr. Kirilov, is this and my cue mostly is this: from your words I could not understand the Supreme Judicial Council to have new functions, new duties or, to put it simply, a new job. I asked you specifically. From your answer you do not claim or say any new job. In this situation, I also see no logic, if there are no new obligations, that their current payment will be changed to them, that is, if there are no new functions that these people have to perform, additional duties, additional work, and no reason to increase their pay. From now on, I know one thing: I know how BSP and DPS will vote on this topic, proudly..... but I wonder about the parliamentary group of colleagues from GERB. Because the feeling of public awareness of wage increases is quite justified. Prove what you say. Prove there's no increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Second line.. People's representative Korman Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, of course this is the Supreme Body of the judiciary, of the judiciary, and it is assumed that the chosen ones to work in this body are people of much better qualities, moral, professional, and indeed it would be an honor for them to manage the judiciary and to work in that body. That is, they are expected that the salary is not the main motive and it is so that in Bulgaria people have honor, authority, dignity, prestige because they receive the big salary. I don't like it, and somehow it doesn't sound good. And if I'm wrong, please correct me. After we split the body, I think that the individual colleagues, they will work less, that is, their meetings will be less busy because the agenda will be divided.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u53	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u54	College... Yeah, they'll work together in the plenary, but it's one thing to have an agenda and look at 15 points, another is 15 points two groups to divide by 7-8. That's how I explain things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Ismailov. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u56	Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable Members, whom you have presented, you have given lines in relation to my speech. Colleague Dimitrov, it was no accident that your colleagues chose you as a spokesperson among the non-jurists. And it is no coincidence that the Members of the Commission do not participate on this subject. However, you should know well and respect that whatever effort I apply as Chair of the Legal Commission, I cannot request evidence regarding the amount of individual remuneration in the independent judiciary. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u57	Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u58	I can rely on the data that are public and which are laid down in the official budget and documents. However, I am certain, I am adamant that the additional remuneration, which was within the framework of participation in committees, is indeed equal and compensates for the change in the base in question. I can also guarantee you that this amendment, which is being proposed, is entirely within the amount already planned for the Fund, the amount already planned! In no way shall any more or new remuneration appropriations be committed to the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u59	Well, then they'll make savings!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u60	With regard to your question, which has also been put in an option by my colleague Korman Ismailov, colleagues, until recently we have debated the division and change in the Constitution. If, until now, a member of the Supreme Judicial Council has participated in a plenary session of the Council and has participated in committees for which we are now refusing to pay him, it is clear that now, instead of two groups of meetings, he will participate in at least three groups of meetings, and there are four. Who are they? In a meeting of the Plenum, i.e. the full composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, in a meeting of the College at which the member concerned belongs and is appointed, in committee meetings, plus participation in a meeting in the committees which are for an attestation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. To speak the word has the popular representative Atanas Atanasov. After him, Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this Law is extremely important, and we are stuck on the salaries of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. But I ask you to listen well to the arguments of both one and the other, and to each and every one of you to make a decision on an inner conviction, not here who tells us what. The bill roughly shows that if you accept this model of determining remuneration, that means about 250 thousand. lv. more than a year from the budget to go for remuneration. It is not a problem for the Bulgarian state to pay 25 thousand. lv. of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, but let us not fix ourselves on the numbers. I want to make another distinction from the others who spoke before me. Let us not also be fixed on this Chamber of this Supreme Judicial Council. It is compromised in the eyes of Bulgarian citizens. Over 90% of people don't support it. The scandals followed one another, but the time would come and this group would be replaced by another member of the Supreme Judicial Council. The question is another: is it fair for this body, in the light of its powers and competence, and for the work it does, to receive such a remuneration? It's not fair, fellow Members! The members of the Supreme Judicial Council cannot receive a salary equal to the so-called "three big ones" because, as some of the pre-negotiators said, the three big ones, apart from being involved in the work of the Supreme Judicial Council, are doing other work. And they'll get the same reward, what's on top of that?! What's on top of that?! That's first. Secondly, in the end, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria we have a division of the authorities - three separate authorities, relatively independent, mutually controlling among themselves. Well, well, the head of executive power is the Prime Minister. Can a member of the Supreme Judicial Council receive a salary higher than the Prime Minister?! Nonsense is this, understand that. You'll excuse me, but I don't know how to define it, that's a pretty lobbying text, not to say a stronger word. Now let's get in front of the members for what? About what?! What kind of work have they done all these years? Someone here quoted by the pre-speakers that 92% of Bulgarian citizens believe that this Supreme Judicial Council is not doing its job, what is more, that it reproduces only scandals, and now at some point to increase their salaries. I would like to draw your attention to something that one of my fellow Members previously said that, once again, we politicians, we MPs, will compromise ourselves in the eyes of our constituents, because they say: The Supreme Judicial Council is not doing its job, and those we have chosen for this matter are giving them more money. I beg you very much, vote on your conscience, otherwise we will all become useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. The word has the popular representative Dimitar Bayraktarov for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When it comes to salaries, immediately they appear to develop populism. However, honourable Members, lawyers, some of the colleagues, it is appropriate to remind you that law is the basis of statehood, that is, when there is a weak judicial system, there is no economy, there is no development of the state, naturally, there is a poor people. I hear outrage that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council wish to level their salaries, for the simple reason that they actually perform the same functions in this Supreme Judicial Council, something absolutely normal. I hear outrage that these salaries would be very high. However, I didn't hear outrage, for example.. Behold, yesterday I approached the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications that, let us say, the Communications Regulation Commission was handing out tens of thousands of levs per year for representative clothing. In March alone, each of these members received about 10,000. lv. It's not a reward, okay?! It's just money, much higher than wages, however, and no one resents it. Isn't it better for these people to be normal, high wages, as justice, the independence of the judiciary starts from the head? It is no accident that the Bulgarian people have created the old saying that fish stink from the head. I prefer these people to be stimulated, to know that they have a good standard of living, because then we rely on their justice, on their professionalism, not on populism. We must then have motive to criticize, to demand on the basis of normal remuneration, but not to develop populism on this subject. Yes, he's right, General. Atanassov 250,000. lv. They're nothing. There's nothing on the back of 19,000. lv. monthly salary of the head of the Bulgarian National Bank, which bankrupts CTB with his inaction or with his action, no one knows, of the vice-presidents of the Bulgarian National Bank. lv. monthly remuneration. But no one is commenting! If we go in to see the other independent bodies called the Committees, they are all elected by this National Assembly, what rewards they take, you will probably get your hair straightened. Do I remind you what a rush it was to bring in some regulatory frameworks that, notice, colleague Dimitrov, because you are smiling at me, you personally proposed with colleague Slavov and we supported you some of these committee heads to receive the twofold amount of the remuneration of the President of the National Assembly. And then there was no problem, and now there is a problem that we will determine the remuneration of the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council. I don't understand this behavior. I see no consistency in the actions when we talk about independent authorities of the relevant authority, in the case of the judiciary. I don't see him! Let us be consistent in our actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. The People's Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u66	Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Bajraktarov, I am glad that you quoted the figures in relation to other remunerations. I will just remind you for what reason you know them for and thanks to what efforts they are, so let us not forget that our efforts in this direction for transparency with colleagues from the Reformation bloc, and with your support, have been systematic over the years and we have always been correct. But I'm taking the floor to make you a line about something else. I see there's a misunderstanding with you. In fact, I was secretly hoping that the offer Mr. Simeonov submitted was actually his own. I hope you'll disprove me very much that this is not an offer from the entire Patriot Front Group, because what's happening? Currently, some Members say that the current remuneration of members of the Supreme Judicial Council is small and we need to increase them. However, these fellow Members forget that remuneration is now equal to the remuneration of a judge at the Supreme Court of Cassation To say that these judges may not be working, I do not know how to understand it, that is, they are underappreciated, carrying what was said about the Supreme Judicial Council, seems incorrect to me. So in this sense, it must be very clear that there is currently a correct equalisation of the salary of a member of the Supreme Judicial Council to a member of the Supreme Court of Cassation, as only for the three large in the system for the Presidents of the Supreme Courts and for the Prosecutor General, it is envisaged that they be even higher, given what most Members have said, that they direct entire institutions in addition to the duties they have as members of the Supreme Judicial Council. What are we doing right now? We equalize them all and say, "You're all equal!" But what do you get in practice? That some people do more work and get as much as everyone else gets, doing less work, because here the distinction is obvious. I am very interested in the financial justification that was mentioned, is there an opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this? Are we really talking about an increase, like we're arguing here, or can we talk about some kind of compensation? Because we didn't hear any numbers, we saw some cast-out speeches and what happens. But that's not how you do it, you know! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u68	Mr President, my parliamentary experience shows that we are going to a vote in which only the Reformation bloc will vote against the House, and the rest of Parliament will have reached an understanding on this subject, although we have heard many arguments...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u69	Mr. Dimitrov, do not prejudge the votes of the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u70	I can feel where this is going. Mr. Bayraktarov, let's not personalize the conversation. Let's talk in general. Why is the President of the Supreme Judicial Council, the President of the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor General, who is primarily in charge of other activities, and the participation in the Supreme Judicial Council is practically an additional activity, those people who have a lot more work than the Supreme Judicial Council, why would you level their remuneration with those of people who have multiples less work? We're asking you a principled question. The pay should be according to the work done, according to the responsibilities, and you pretend all the time that you are not listening to our question. I know you don't like it. I know you don't like these arguments. Yeah, they're the same, and you can't answer them in the same way. You don't have an answer to these questions, and that's why you don't answer anything. So, Mr. Bayraktarov, this is not about justice. We're consistent, including the fact that yesterday you gave me a signal about that 10,000. BGN, which is suspected to have been handed out as money for clothes. We asked for the bill that we supported together and for this issue to be regulated. That is to say, on every signal that has been given to us and on every issue that we have received information that money is not in line with the work done or is unjustifiedly high, we take the same attitude. We've taken the same for the BNB, and we're taking the same for the Supreme Judicial Council now. But speaking of consistency, I'm still gonna ask you about one thing you don't answer me about. I ask you many times and you will never answer why did the Prime Minister rightly say that no one in the state should receive more money from him? Doesn't he have the most responsibility? Doesn't he do the most work? If so, why are the BNB receiving more from him? Why would the Supreme Judicial Council now receive more from him? Where did you see justice? Where did you see the logic?! I told you how the vote was going to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u71	The weather, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u72	I can tell you that I will vote on my conscience and I will vote against this proposal of yours, although I feel that others have spoken about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u73	Any other lines? I won't. Here you are for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues Dimitrov and Slavov, you have submitted a Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act. We supported you. In this Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission, you personally provided for remuneration equal to twice the salary of the President of the National Assembly. Read it and read it! [[Noise in RB.]] So it's about remuneration that's in the order of 8,000. lv. This is about a levelling of wages, which in my information concerns differences between 400 and 500 BGN, i.e. minimal difference. If anyone is worried that there will be a huge overspend of the Fund "Work pay" by the twenty-several members of the Supreme Judicial Council, it can be safely adjusted that the remuneration is within the budget voted, that is, there will be no oversale. From now on, we are entering into a meaningless debate and a dispute that only stirs tensions, and perhaps deliberately wants to put the old Roman maxim into action.Divide and conquer, which is clearly not good, especially when it comes to the judiciary. Let me remind you, since you quoted the Prime Minister that Bulgaria is the Republic with parliamentary rule. That is, the supreme power in this country is here. And don't forget it! So don't give me the Prime Minister, don't give me populist stories that he had worked most. To work, to live and to live! It's his job! That's why he's chosen!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote paragraphs 6 to 11 inclusive. Paragraphs 6 to 10 are fully supported by the importing Commission and § 11 is generally supported and supported by the Commission. [[Loud noise in RB.]] We vote paragraphs 6 to 11 inclusive. They voted 110 MPs: 81 against 11, abstention 18. Paragraphs 6 to 11 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u76	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov: In §12: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29g, para. 2 after the words.. is postponed to one hour later and the text... is added in the case of the quorum by sentence first.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A new sentence is added third with the following text, and the previous sentence becomes the fourth sentence: "In the case of the second absence of a quorum, a new general meeting is scheduled according to the order of this chapter.' 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29k, para. 3 the words "choice" shall be considered to be regular regardless of the number of voters and a new sentence shall be deleted and a last sentence shall be added: "If the prerequisites of paras no longer exist." 2, a new choice is scheduled after one week. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Kadiev in § 12, art. 29k, para. 2 and para. 3 is canceled. Allinei 4 and 5 are renumbered as para. 2 and para. 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs. On this proposal, the Commission does not support the proposal on points 1 to 5 and points 8 to 10 and the proposal on points 6 and 7 has been withdrawn. I will read the unsupported texts: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 12: "1." In creations new art. 29a, para. 5 the words "eight months' shall be replaced by "six months' and the words "six months' shall be replaced by "three months'. 2. In creations new art. 29b The words after a discussion with the judicial authorities are dropped. 3. In creations new art. 29c, para. 2 the words "two months' shall be replaced by "five working days'. 4. In creations new art. 29g, para. 1 the words "two consecutive Saturdays" shall be replaced by "two consecutive non-working days" "Saturdays" and "Sundays." 5. In creations new art. 29z, para. 2, the words "five hundred judges" shall be replaced by "three-thirty judges." Points 6 and 7 are withdrawn. It's 8 o'clock. In creations new art. 29k, para. 1 sentence 2 is amended as follows: 6 astronomical hours are provided for the production of the selection. 9. In creations new art. 29 meters out. 10. The newly created art. 29n, 29o and art. Article 29p shall become respectively. 29m, 29n and art. 29o. As I have already said, the Commission does not support the proposal on this. 1 s 9 et c. 8 - 10, and the proposal under p. Six and seven are withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u77	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! I've made two-point proposals. I want to withdraw the t. 1, but I'm asking you to support this. 2. Point 1 concerns the General Assembly at which the candidates will be heard, and I had suggested that the requirement for a quorum be laid down there. Even if it is not assembled, it is valid and cannot be held without a quorum. I withdraw the proposal because I accept the arguments of the importer, including Mrs. Minister, that this is still only a hearing and it can be done remotely by means of a telecommunications connection and it does not require the physical presence of the people in the Chamber to listen to the candidates. What I'm offering on t. 2 and which concerns Art. 29k, I ask for your support, because there is the possibility that, if there is no quorum, that is, if they have not voted more than half on the first day of the meeting, it should be postponed and then the choice should be held and valid regardless of the number of voters. In other words: if 50 people vote in this delay, they can actually choose the entire representation of the Magistrate Community in the Supreme Judicial Council. I think that is not the point of these texts, and the aim is to achieve really maximum representation, maximum number of people voting for members of the Supreme Judicial Council in order to elect quality candidates. I appeal to you: think about it, in the context of the Election Code, we are talking about almost introducing a mandatory vote for people in regular elections, going compulsory to vote, and here we are allowing hardly wishful thinking, without even a requirement for a quorum, for the choice to be valid, to be able to hold a choice and almost 50 people, that even less, to be able to elect 11 members of the Supreme Judicial Council. This seems extremely dangerous and unreasonable to me. Yes, there is an argument that in this way it is possible to make the choice difficult, but in the end, colleagues, we are talking about a choice that will happen once every five years. However, I think magistrates are responsible people and will take this seriously and will go on the day of the election to vote. Let it be clear, however, that there is also a legal requirement that we do not get, figuratively speaking, some mistake and 50 people to choose half the Supreme Judicial Council and then wonder how to explain this to society and why it is allowed. I would like to draw your attention to the texts that introduce remote electronic voting options. If this is given to the magistrates, then a very high representativeness of the vote can be expected, and there should be no problem that half of them have voted and that there is a requirement for a.... at least half and more than half of them have voted. I'm withdrawing my offer on t. 1, p. 2 I ask you to stay, and I ask for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u79	Any lines to Mr. Slavov? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Slavov, a very short line: what happens if you never vote more than half of the participants on the list who have to participate in the selection for candidates? We never choose members of the Supreme Judicial Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u81	Second line? A hole, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u82	Mr. Ivanov, I hope we never come to this hypothesis. However, if this happens, I have suggested that a new general meeting be held and a new selection procedure be held, and hopefully that then people will come together. I'm paying attention to you again, we're talking magistrates, responsible people. I do not expect them to boycott these meetings and not attend the first. Let there really be a requirement for a quorum so that there is no doubt. I'd draw a parallel to political life. You know very well about the long and endless meetings, when the crafty apparatuses come out and talk long and irrigation..... becomes 12, 1, 2 hours at night, people begin to go away. There are 50 people left in the Chamber and they finally vote, and they choose. Let's not let that happen. The quorum requirement should apply if a new meeting is to take place on the next day, but really be representative of this choice. By the way, I have sought for a similar hypothesis in other state authorities to provide for the so-called falling and without a lower threshold. There are situations where it is said: yes, if no more than half are collected, then a falling quorum is permissible, but for example not less than one third of the members are missing, that is to say at least one third to be present in order to have a somewhat valid choice. I could not find if you want to give me similar examples of the choice of a higher state body, in this case it is a senior forum of the judicial authorities. I couldn't find anything like that. What's interesting is that I've been continuing to consult the party life, so to speak. Curiously, I found that even in the BSP have recorded such a requirement in party elections cannot go below the required quorum of 50% in order to be valid the choice of the relevant authority. Even they have recorded it, and we are here allowing almost 50 people and less to make decisions that determine the five following years for the entire judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u83	Mr. Chavdar Georgiev has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposals made by us are in the direction of rationalising the process that you want the direct selection by the judges of their quota at the Supreme Judicial Council. I would like to draw your attention to two of the proposals made. The first relates to the establishment of the rules by which the respective magistrates will be elected, namely the High Judicial Council shall adopt rules on a proposal from the relevant Members. I am referring to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and, notice, also after consultation with the judicial authorities. If the letter of the Law is respected, this norm becomes inexhaustible, so I suggest the text after consultation with the authorities of the judiciary, which means all the bodies of the judiciary, because it is a member of the authorities, to drop out. Of course, no one prevents the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council and colleagues from putting out for discussion wherever they want and whatever rules they want. The second thing I would particularly like to draw your attention to is the so-called "church." 29m " which is related to the registration of non-profit legal entities in the process of election of judges. Understand, it is not permissible to give legal persons the opportunity to interfere in this process. I think magistrates are responsible enough people to decide on how to organise their choice, and legal entities should not be allowed, or those registered in a socially useful activity, to interfere directly with the electoral process. I suggest that at least these two proposals be supported. Madam President, I'm asking you to put my proposal on this. 9 for dropping out of art. 29m to vote separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u85	Thank you. Mrs. Zaharieva wants the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u86	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will briefly take into account the two proposals. Firstly, regarding the proposal of the MP Chavdar Georgiev for dropping the text, which provides for the possibility of participation of observers in the selection. I note that, until now, observers have been involved at all meetings at which members of the Supreme Judicial Council have been elected, regardless of whether they have been through delegates' meetings, as has been so far. This is not new and I do not think that by signing clear procedures in the Law which observers can participate and which rules are a bad thing. On the contrary, it clearly regulates which non-governmental organisations can be included as observers. That's happening right now. I think this will be a guarantee of increasing confidence in the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, and I ask you very much not to support this proposal. Regarding the proposal of the MP Mr. Slavov. Of course, the goal is as wide as possible, and I would say much more than half of all. When we debated the way in which the choice was to be held, the Ministry's proposal, which I am pleased to have received such broad support from the entire Council, was precisely with the idea that the magistrates should not be demotivated and finally remain involved in 50 or 100 people after 10, 12, 15 hours of meetings, the choice to be fixed, as are the elections, from 8.00 on one day to 6.00 p.m., precisely with the idea of ensuring maximum broad participation. We anticipated a falling quorum with the idea of having a choice after all. That is, to be able to elect a Supreme Judicial Council and leave it to the magistrates, given that we have given them the opportunity, when they decide to go to vote, from 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. to be so good, to be responsible and to go to the vote. If we don't predict a falling quorum, I'm afraid of blocking the choice. There are two options: if there is no falling quorum, then a penalty must be offered for magistrates who have not participated in the selection, or the other option is indeed the introduction of some minimum threshold and 33% and in my opinion are not sufficient. It is better to have participated more than half of all eligible voters. So there are two options: either a sanction is envisaged, which I do not support because we leave to the responsibility. These are responsible people, and they should be willing to participate in the choice. In fact, the direct choice was of their own volition. They want to participate, they want no delegates' meetings. Or really predict 33%, but then again I ask: what if they still don't go? Then we face the election of an expired constitutional mandate, a lack of a Supreme Judicial Council. Those are the two options. I'll leave it up to you. I believe that the text of the importer is balanced and even more so with the obligation of the Supreme Judicial Council to finally introduce the electronic vote. They really won a project, they really spent some money, they say they're ready. We oblige them to make an experimental vote 10 months before the start of the selection to see if the system works well and, God forbid, this choice to take place electronically remotely 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u87	Any other MPs? Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u88	Thank you, Madam President. In view of the position taken by the Minister of Justice, I would like to make a specific editorial proposal in art. 29k, para. 3 sentence second text: The number of voters shall be replaced by less than 33% of those entitled to vote. That is, the choice to be real if they voted more than 33%, because otherwise we really are faced with a hypothesis in which an extremely minimal number of magistrates are involved in the choice that compromises it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u89	Do you have it on tape? [[Reference between the MPs Petar Slavov, Atanas Atanasov and the Chairman.]] Sentence 2 of art. 29k, para. 3: The choice is considered to be regular, regardless of the number of voters. You propose: The choice is considered to be regular if they have voted no less than 33%. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Atanasov, it makes sense in your proposal, only that the logic is lost if your proposal is accepted and this choice is null and void, as a result of the fact that they voted less than 33% entitled to vote. Would you consider further in the Law where a procedure is scheduled when a null choice is made, meaning there is no choice what happens? I'll ask Mrs. Zaharieva. By the way, the answer is simple: there is simply no Supreme Judicial Council. What do you do from there? We can leave this Supreme Judicial Council to be the same for years, for the simple reason that no real choice can be organised, not to say that an opportunity is being created for a very unpleasant practice to be introduced and this is already another much worse signal. However, the world practice of the falling quorum has been introduced and created for a reason and with a falling quorum, corporations are managed that manage billions of dollars around the world, and there is no problem in making changes to their statutes, management boards and so on. So this practice neither I have invented it, nor you nor anyone here by the National Assembly, but it has proved to be working, for this very reason. It is therefore purely logical to have representation, but we logically hope that these people, the magistrates representing the judiciary, will exercise high morals and high responsibility to go and choose the Supreme Judicial Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u91	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, read the whole text and it will become clear to you. In para. 4 The next, it is said that in the event that a re-vote is required in the course of the election in accordance with art. 29, it takes place the next day. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] It is stated in the text, read it carefully. I will repeat what my colleague Slavov said. Do not compare between elected constitutional authorities and the management of commercial companies. These are absolutely different things. Thank you. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u93	Any other MPs? Colleagues, the debate is being held by the stands. Are there any other MPs who would like to comment on the issues discussed? Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u94	Madam President, as regards Mr. Atanasov's proposal, I am generally inclined, although we are talking about the wish of the magistrates and the opportunity for them to determine their choice, to hope that they are sufficiently responsible and conscientious. I wouldn't say editing, but the difference between voting and voting is because I may have registered to participate, but not vote and then fall under... Only specify whether they participated or voted, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u95	Not less than 33% of those eligible for voting rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u96	They've been involved or voted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u97	Here's how it is:... but not less than 33%, regardless of the number of voters. That's how it's filed. Are there any lines to Mr. Lazarov? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote Mr. Petar Slavov's proposal. 1 is withdrawn, only by t. 2 "What he defended in the Chamber, and it is the sentence: "In case there are again no prerequisites under para. 2, a new choice is scheduled after one week. We are voting on Mr. Slavov's proposal, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: 18, against 11, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. 110 MPs voted: 1 against 58, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Chavdar Georgiev made a procedure for separate voting on the item. 9 of the proposals made by him and a group of MPs. I put to the vote Mr. Chavdar Georgiev's procedure for a separate vote on the item. Nine of the remaining points on their proposal. We vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 17 against 59, 37 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. In this situation, I fully vote on points 1 to 5 and 8 to 10, as 6 and 7 have been withdrawn, Mr. Georgiev's proposals and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. They voted 108 MPs: 8 against 54, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 12 but the debate proposes an editorial amendment in art. 29k, para. 3, what Mr. Atanasov did in the stands. It proposes a change in the second sentence of para. 3, to be recorded: "not less than 33% of the voting rights.' We vote on Mr. Atanasov's proposal. Colleagues, what we are voting on right now sounds like this: The choice is considered regular if they voted no less than 33 per cent of those who have the right to vote. Yes, says Mr. Atanasov. Vote 112 MPs: 89 against 8, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on § 12 by importer, supported by the Commission, with the amended para. Art. 3, second sentence of art. 29k. They voted 104 MPs: 96, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, the guests of the National Assembly are currently a group of women from the town of Shumen and students from the primary school. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Metodiy, village of Damyanitsa, municipality of Sandanski. [[Applause.]] We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! Under § 13 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov: C §13: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 1, t. 5 the words "real estates" shall be replaced by the property. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2, p. 7 the words "after consultation with the EU" shall be replaced by "after providing an opportunity for an opinion of the EU Member State," and after the words "in relation to the military courts" the words "after consultation with the EU" shall be replaced by "after providing an opportunity for an opinion of the EU Member State." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2, p. 8 the words "coherence with" shall be replaced by "after providing an opportunity for opinion of the "supplier." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Chetin Kazak, Petar Slavov, Emil Dimitrov, Chavdar Georgiev, Anna Alexandrova, Svilen Ivanov and Yavor Notev. The Commission supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in a new § 48 as regards art. 194. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: In § 13, Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following paragraphs shall be added: 30 the following additions 1. In para. 2, p. 6 Finally a comma is placed and the words are added according to the proposal of the judge, respectively the prosecutor's college. 2. In para. 5 is created a new t. 5 with the following content: It's five o'clock. propose to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council regarding the appointment and dismissal of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General; The remaining points shall be renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u99	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this paragraph regulates the powers of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council and, separately, of the Colleges. The proposal that we have made has unfortunately not received support in the Commission. I therefore take the floor, to try to clarify what is the purpose of our proposal and to ask you to support it The proposal is for the procedure and the mechanism by which candidates are nominated for the positions of the so-called "three majors" for the Presidents of both courts and for the Prosecutor General. As suggested in para. 2, The Supreme Judicial Council shall propose to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria the appointment and release of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Prosecutor General, and that is correct. However, we propose that this proposal be based on a previous proposal, respectively, on the judge's or prosecutor's college. That is, in order to propose a candidate for president of some of the courts, let the proposal come from the relevant professional, so to call it a college. Otherwise, this means that prosecutors may propose candidates for the Presidents of the Courts and vice versa the courts may propose candidates for the Prosecutor General, which mixes functions. In this regard and in para. 3, where the powers of the College of Judges are prescribed, that is, in para. 5 - The judge and prosecutor's college, we propose to create a new item. 5, in order to be able to regulate the possibility or power of each of these colleges to nominate candidates and to be professional. The proposals to come from among the judges for candidates for the courts and from the prosecutors for candidate of the Prosecutor General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I close the debates and put to the vote a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Petar Slavov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 21, against 10, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: 13, against 34, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 72 MPs: 68 against 1, abstention 3. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Madame Minister! The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u103	Statements? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for paragraphs 14, 15 and 16, which are fully supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 3. Paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u104	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In § 17 t. 4 the text is replaced by less than eight votes for the judge's college, and not less than six votes for the prosecutor's college is replaced by less than ten votes for the judge's college, and not less than eight votes for the prosecutor's college. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Chetin Kazak and a group of MPs: In § 17, paragraph 17 is replaced by the following: 3 is amended as follows: The decisions of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 30, para. 2, p. 2 and 6 shall be adopted by a majority, not less than seventeen votes, and the other decisions by a majority, more than half of the members present. The vote is evident except in cases where personnel decisions are adopted or disciplinary penalties are imposed, and voting in these cases is clearly or secretly at the discretion of the plenary or the relevant College for each particular case. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Radan Kanev and a group of MPs: In § 17, Article 17 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of The decisions of the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council under art. 30, para. 5, t. 1-5 shall be adopted by a majority of not less than eight votes for the College of Judges and a majority of the members elected directly by the Judges; by no less than eight votes for the College of Prosecutors, and a majority of the members elected by the National Assembly. The other decisions shall be adopted by a majority, more than half of the members present, with the exception of the decision under art. 30, para. 5, t. 17. The vote is always clear. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 17, t. 4 in the new content of para. The fourth sentence is amended as follows: "Vote under art. 30, para. 5, t. 1, 2 and 3 is secret. The Commission does not support the proposal. Mr. President, please allow me to report the proposal to the MP Yavor Haytov, which was made in the debates at the second reading in the Commission under art. 80. It was in the sense of al. Three and...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u105	Why isn't it in the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u106	Because it was missed in the report. It is obvious that it was done in the Commission meeting, but Mr. Haytov paid attention and that is correct. Indeed, he proposed in para. 3 and 4 drop the last sentence, where in both cases the vote is always clear. This proposal by Mr. Haytov was not supported by a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u107	Yeah, you just introduced him. Not supported by a vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u108	He's not supported, yes, at...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u109	Is it not voted or not supported?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u110	It's been voted out and rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u111	Yes, it just reflects that there is another unsupported proposal that you have just presented. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Our proposal concerns, above all, the explicit entry in the Bill, which states that all votes in the plenary and in the Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council on all matters are mandatory by a clear vote. If you remember, ever since the amendments to the Constitution were discussed, you know that the way to vote was one of the most controversial, and because of it the adoption of these changes took quite a long time. After all, you remember that a compromise has been reached. But what was it, I would like to remind you that the compromise was to remove from the text of the Constitution the recording, which required that all votes of the Supreme Judicial Council on Chamber Affairs be taken by secret ballot. That text is out of the question. However, never did this compromise, which was reached, extend to the reverse extreme hypothesis that is currently being proposed by the importer, namely that all votes in the plenary and in the colleges must be taken by a clear vote. On the contrary, even then our position, when the amendments to the Constitution were adopted, was that we leave to the legislator, that is, at the time of the adoption of these amendments to the Law on the Judiciary, the National Assembly to decide whether and in what cases the vote should be open and in what secret it should be. And never, never in this National Assembly was there a consensus that all votes must be clear. Why? Because even then, when we were discussing the amendments to the Constitution on a long and wide basis, we justified that the most effective method invented by mankind to ensure the vote, the decision-making by a person of conscience is this decision or this vote to be secret, that is, not knowing at this point who voted when it comes to a collective body. If we want the members of the Supreme Judicial Council to be continuously, for any vote under pressure, of influence, of the ugliness of follow-up action in one direction or another, that is, if we want them to be deprived of any freedom of conscience, then let us accept what the Council of Ministers has proposed to make all the votes manifest. But if we want to leave at least a small opportunity for the members of the Supreme Judicial Council to take their decisions really in conscience, freely, without worrying about how their former and future executives will react when they return to the judicial authority from which they came, if we want to vote freely, without worrying about the fact that media, non-governmental organisations will then crucify them for voting in favour of one candidate and not voting in favour of another candidate, especially when it comes to voting by administrative leaders, then let us leave at least one opportunity for them to judge the relevant College or plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council on the specific case, whether it should be a clear or a secret vote. I am convinced that, in most cases, these people will show sufficient courage and decide that the vote should be made public. But I am sure that there will indeed be cases where they would prefer the vote to be secretly precisely in order to guarantee a free vote of conscience in accordance with their inner conviction. And then the safest guarantee of that is the secret vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? People's representative Yavor Haytov. After him, the People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev and the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that the President of the Legal Committee has failed in his report to explain my proposal and made it public to you in this House does not offend me. On the contrary, I would like to say that, as President of the Legal Committee, there are always debates in the Commission where we can make proper and accurate decisions. In this way, during a Commission meeting, he also admitted my proposal, which was discussed with a large number of colleagues, and, thank God, not a small part of them supported it. Essentially, what is it? My proposal is in § 17, where art. 33, para. 3 and para. 4 drop the last sentence, which reads: "Vote is always obvious. My proposal and motives for this proposal are in two directions. On the one hand, there is no question that always under the rules of democracy the true, honest, democratic vote is the secret. However, we must also not tell the members of the Supreme Judicial Council that they must vote in secret. Therefore, by dropping the obligation to vote clearly, we give them operational autonomy to decide themselves and to decide at what times how to vote. Here, honourable Members, we must also take into account the fact that, by adopting the new rules for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, we will, in fact, choose some decent, authoritative people, good professionals, and should not show them at any time: "Make one, makes two steps by step how to express their will. On the one hand, allowing all magistrates in the magistrate's quota for members of the Supreme Judicial Council to choose such ones, they are practically a common choice and as much supported by the guild itself. As for the other quota, I would like to remind myself that we have adopted a text which says that the members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the parliamentary quota are elected by a two-thirds majority. Thus, we deprive any party at any time to impose its own party applications. This means that in the National Assembly itself there will be an agreement for a choice, as I said, and so far, of decent and authoritative people. Somehow, believe me, it's insulting to those magistrates that we all rely on to point out to them as the first-class does one, makes two. I therefore ask you, honourable Members, to support this proposal and to enable the magistrates themselves to judge, decide at what point and how to vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? No. For the next speech is the word of the people's representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we are making with fellow MPs is in the same spirit, I would say, that we are really giving legal guarantees and that the judiciary is truly independent. By joining the motives of the negotiators, I would like to point out that the secret vote is the only form of vote that ensures freedom of choice. You can't be independent if everyone can influence you and tell you how to vote and then check how you voted. Therefore, I ask you to support our proposal, which is explicitly and says that the important decisions relating to personnel growth related to magistrates' attestations are always done in secret so that the judiciary can truly be independent of any external influences. Isn't that what we want? Isn't that what judicial reform is all about? I therefore ask you, honourable Members, to support the proposal by which we determine that decisions relating to the appointment, promotion, relocation and dismissal of judges, prosecutors and investigators; decisions relating to attestations and decisions relating to disciplinary penalties are always secret. I mean, it's always accepted by secret ballots. This is the most democratic way of making decisions, the freest way of volition of the colleges and the Supreme Judicial Council. This is the guarantee of the independence of the judiciary as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u117	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. The People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u118	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Colleagues, I will not repeat the debate that took place from May of last year until the end of amending the Constitution, namely on this text with the secret or obvious vote. There is nothing new in the arguments presented at the time by colleagues in the Constitutional Committee, then in the National Assembly when voting on the relevant text for amending the Constitution, in the debates that were held during the hearing of the representatives of the professional communities and NGOs. The secret vote in practice deprives magistrates of the right to appeal the very choice given in the Law on the Judiciary because there is no motive in the secret vote. There's no way to draw a motive! Since the establishment, by the founder, when the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted, there is the text that the election of the magistrates is by secret ballot and all the other votes have been clear until now. With the amendment of the Constitution, when it enters into force already, the Supreme Judicial Council, as this constitutional ban has been dropped, are clearly voting. If anyone here continues to develop the thesis that, you see, the secret vote clearly gave the possibility of freedom of choice, deprives or restricts, or completely removes the possibilities of any addictions, let us recall back in the secret vote, without enumerating fully what the results were. In practice, these were the scandalous decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council when, in a secret vote, when there were no observations, there were no objections and a good testimonial characteristic of a magistrate, whether he would be promoted to a higher degree, or a higher court, or would be elected as an administrative leader, strange votes were taking place. Without any remarks and without any objections, there was no choice. So let's not talk about addiction. If we're going to talk about addictions, I'd say that I'm not going to say it for the first time, but when we're going to talk so much about addictions, it's better to be obvious than secret. It is, however, about magistrates who, in their acts, are law enforcement in criminal matters with very high public pressure, sometimes media, or commercial matters, the acts are clear. Magistrates shall be signed under their motives and pronounced clearly with their sentences. It can't be otherwise, not that it wasn't back in the years when some three member states or some special committees secretly pronounced some administrative or non-administrative acts, you see, so there wouldn't be any dependence. We know the results of those times, what they were, they've already been completely denied. Honourable Members, this is why a very large constitutional majority was gathered to remove this text for the secret vote in the election of magistrates. I will recall 2010. We then tried at the Forty-first National Assembly in one of the bills amending the Law on the Judiciary and voted a text in the Chamber that the election of the administrative leaders was clear, as the Constitution speaks of magistrates, the same people here then are consistent, of course, reviewed the Constitutional Court and it annulled this text. I want to remind you. We are also consistent in our position, and I call on you to vote on the text, as by importer, so that they can really defend their positions, members of the Supreme Judicial Council, so that magistrates who are not satisfied with the choice, because they will already have some motives to defend their interests before the administrative court in this case. Any other talk about secret addictions, obvious addictions and independences I think are untenable. The National Assembly also makes the choice of authorities evident.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Do you have any lines, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u120	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lazarov, I did not get convincing arguments from you why the vote should always be clear. Please explain to me what it means to motivate a personnel decision, when there are, for example, two candidates who formally meet all the legal requirements for taking up a position, whether it be a magistrate's or an administrative supervisor's? What does it mean to motivate why you preferred the applicant, and not to prefer the school, when the two formally meet all the requirements? Who will make this motivation, this is my next question: the entire plenary, each member of the Supreme Judicial Council who voted in the relevant College? Who will motivate the decision to choose? Who will motivate the decision to refuse to elect a candidate to have the opportunity to then use these motives when appealing the decision? Honourable Members, let us be a little more serious and consider that this is, however, not about judicial decisions, not administrative acts of general nature, but about personnel decisions of choice. There the motivation for voting inevitably has a subjective character. This subjective nature cannot be motivated. He can't be motivated! From this point of view, the argument that you see, because the secret vote did not allow for motivation, is absolutely untenable. On the contrary, the secret vote provides exceptional guarantees for a vote of conscience, not for a vote of order, under the watchful eye of the future or former administrative manager, under the watchful eye of the word, which will then seek the account of this or that member of the Supreme Judicial Council, who has not voted as much as the statement or administrative manager expected of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Lazarov, first of all, I do not agree that the National Assembly voted clearly. Of course, the National Assembly may, in certain cases, vote in secret. You, your parliamentary group, have been subjected to media attacks, for example, I would like to remind you of the election of the Ombudsman. I replicate your claim that the National Assembly has always voted clearly and this is an indicative vote for democratic development and processes. I believe that both the secret vote and the possibility for the National Assembly to decide how to vote is once again in favour of the argument that I have allowed myself to make in my speech: let the magistrates decide on their own how to vote. As far as your other thesis is concerned, when the vote is apparent, such a decision of the Supreme Judicial Council cannot be appealed,...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u123	There was no such a thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u124	I heard that from you. Maybe I didn't understand you in detail. Of course, at any moment it can be appealed, and this is done in accordance with the Administrative Code of Procedure before the Supreme Administrative Court. As far as clearly or secretly concerned, I would allow my colleagues from GERB, as well as you, Mr. Lazarov, as representatives of the largest Christian Democratic formation in our parliament, to say that, according to the rules of Christian democracy, the true free will is in the secret vote. I repeat my proposal: let us allow the magistrates to decide on their own whether to vote secretly or openly. I also disagree with the fact that an analogy can be made with judgments or judgments and with the ruling of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council either on personnel or on disciplinary proceedings. This analogue is by no means correct and must not be mixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. The third line is the People's Representative Svilen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! Mr. Lazarov, it doesn't seem to be clear. I absolutely agree with Parliament's analogy with the Supreme Judicial Council. In this National Assembly we had only one secret choice and, as my colleague Haytov said, there was confusion and it is not yet clear who voted on what! The logic of this is that when we vote here clearly, every political party knows its position and then goes outside and explains it. You want us to remove this responsibility from the members of the Supreme Judicial Council and make some secret arrangements. Let everyone stand behind their name and say why and how they voted. I think you should explain it one more time. I guess the coworkers didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u127	You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u128	I cannot accept the proposal, you see, at the discretion of the Supreme Judicial Council, when we elect an administrative leader, to vote secretly, and when we elect another administrative leader, to vote openly! It's Nonsense! By this logic, if there are three candidates, let us decide that the Supreme Judicial Council for one candidate should vote secretly so that they can be free in the vote, and for the other candidate for the same position to vote openly! Maybe that's what you want with this proposal?! As far as Christian democratic values are concerned, I am not much of a specialist in theology. If you had also suggested that we sign texts in the Law on the Judiciary after the secret vote on where to go to confess the magistrates! Because now some of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council are going somewhere to confess how they voted secretly. To sign a procedure for where this confession should be and whether to be secret or manifest. [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u129	The next speech is the People's Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, Madame Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I join Mr. Lazarov's arguments, which were very well made... the vote must be made clear. I would like to remind you of a vote concerning Mrs. Nelly Kutzkova's candidacy, she received in words the support of many people from the Supreme Judicial Council and the vote showed otherwise. A clear vote means personal responsibility. Everyone gets up and says how they vote. Then he has to answer to the public why he voted in a certain way. Why do we choose the cabinet, ministers with a clear vote?! I would also like to remind you of a secret vote that has recently taken place for an ombudsman. So far, I can't find any colleagues who supported Maya Manolova, and she won the vote! I'm talking about different parliamentary groups. [[Noise and lines.]] It is high time, ladies and gentlemen, that he had a personal responsibility for every personnel decision in the Supreme Judicial Council to make it clear who voted, to bear the responsibility and why he voted in this way. Any representative of the Supreme Judicial Council may be invited by the media to ask him: If we also believe that the Supreme Judicial Council will elect people who, in the eyes of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts or in the eyes of the Attorney General, will not dare take a position, then such people simply should not be in the Supreme Judicial Council! Colleagues, it is similar here why Parliament voted clearly, given that they are ministers, the Prime Minister is coming. This has never been and will not be a reason for a MP to change his vote, his motivation or point of view. Dear colleagues, I hope we will introduce a standard, a single standard. Very correctly, colleague Lazarov told you: will it be possible for the same personnel decisions once the vote is clear, once in secret, according to the situation and decision of the Supreme Judicial Council?! That would be a very, very bad practice! I address the people center, right, to whom it suits to defend the democratic principle of personal responsibility. Once again, let me remind you of another unpleasant case. There's a Commission for Control of Registered Accountants Expert. There, too, until recently, they voted in secret. The vote concerned the case CCB and the audit carried out by CCB. It took a license. Before the secret vote, everyone wanted to take it away, and after the secret vote, the license in question was not revoked. No one has ever been able to figure out how who voted until today. Is that your personal responsibility?! Is this the way to do a good job?! Whoever wants to enter the Supreme Judicial Council, to vote openly, to be personally responsible and to explain his actions! So we're going to make the organ more transparent and better working. I appeal to my fellow Members at the centre and right: to support the proposal as it has been tabled. Next, we of the Reformation bloc have a proposal that there will be no votes of abstention, no votes of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a vote of a kind of an additional instrument of clear and firm responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kazak. Mr. Mikov also asked to exercise his right to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u132	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dimitrov, your statement shows how you are making every possible, maximum effort to turn the Supreme Judicial Council into the opposite of an independent body to make it the most dependent body in the country! We depend on the eyes of the senior magistrates, of the senior executives in the judiciary, dependent on the lobbying interests of this or that word or non-governmental organisation, dependent on media pressure, public opinion pressure created legitimately or not for the benefit of a candidate or to the detriment of another. Anything but an independent body! If that is your goal, you will really achieve it with this decision. Then I would like to see what votes will follow in the Supreme Judicial Council. If you think that from now on, with the clear vote, all decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council will be indisputable, clean, white, as a tear, that there will be no scandals in the chamber decisions, you are deeply mistaken! A quote from the Bible that you well know: "Happy are the faithful! That's not gonna happen. There will be even bigger and more serious scandals because, in the open vote, anyone who will try to emancipate from the keen look of his future administrative leader or pό's superior administrative leader in the relevant judiciary unit will be crucified by media, NGOs and, above all, by the merger. And no more free will, no more free vote by conscience, no more independence from the Supreme Judicial Council!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. Any other lines? Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dimitrov, what responsibility are you talking about?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u135	Personally!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u136	You want to have control, not responsibility! That's what you're talking about, looking for an account of whether one person voted one way or another! [[Reply from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov.]] I'm going to offer you something else. Let them vote clearly, by raising their hand. That was in Todor Zhivkov's day. This is what you want to have full totalitarian power in the judiciary and to have full control! You're talking about democracy. You're talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u137	Third line, please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Dimitrov, thank you for developing my line as a whole. But I would like to ask you a question: do you know how the Supreme Judicial Council voted on amendments to the Constitution? Vote clearly! Has anyone heard any trouble getting up by now? No. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u139	A hole, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u140	Dear colleagues! Thank you for the lines that further showed that the obvious vote is without alternative. To a BSP colleague who remembers how he voted during the time of Todor Zhivkov, an honourable colleague, this practice of yours, this experience of yours is not relevant to the particular situation, and these are just your memories that do not help us make the specific decision, perhaps your pride in the past. If we want personal responsibility, this will not in any case bring better decisions to the Supreme Judicial Council. At the very least, what we will be able to change will know who made the decisions, who was involved in making these decisions, who voted how. These people will have to answer publicly why they voted in a certain way. If you think that the clear vote is not democratic and does not guarantee the independence of an authority, I would ask all of you: do you feel independent here in Parliament? You are clearly voting.. 99% of your votes, colleagues, are obvious! Don't you vote by conscience? Isn't that what you admitted, Mr. Kazak, just now, saying that by not voting secretly, but apparently, that means refusing independence? Are you independent, Mr. Kazak, by conscience, voting here, or is someone telling you what to do? Or to put it another way, Parliament is solving a lot of personnel issues. We are electing a Prime Minister, ministers, regulatory authorities. I do not know anyone to solve more personnel issues than the Bulgarian Parliament. So, honourable Members, if you personally feel that someone is telling you what to do, please do not have this standard on the entire Bulgarian Parliament! If you feel the same way in your party in your society, they are not the same for the entire Bulgarian Parliament! This is your personal matter and your problem. With the obvious vote, we'll make a big change from here on out. We have already introduced this for a number of regulatory bodies.. the votes of the Court of Auditors are already clear, the votes of the Commission in question for public oversight of the registered auditors have made it clear, Parliament voted clearly, the discussions and votes of the Council of Ministers are also clear, the transcripts of the Council of Ministers are public, the transcripts of Parliament are public. This is a way for more responsibility and opportunity, colleagues, to ask you: Mr. Georgiev, Mr. Kazak, on a subject why did you vote one thing, and you promised another? The clear vote is so valuable, because everyone will be individually responsible for their actions and without any questions about why they did not go to a vote, covered themselves, as we see in this National Assembly. He's a tool. [[the President signals that time has run out]] for more personal responsibility. I call on my fellow Members to the right together, convinced to vote for the obvious vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u141	Since there are more people who are willing to speak, and Mrs. Zaharieva will take the attitude, we are interrupting until 12.10 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u142	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing the meeting. Please, the Quaestors, invite your colleagues. Before the break, the wish to speak was expressed by the public representative Mihail Mikov. You have the floor, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to return the discussion to the period before the break, when the issue of the secret vote was discussed here. Many of those who have spoken by the ruling majority frankly said that the representatives of the parliamentary and judicial quota in the Supreme Judicial Council should be dependent on those who have chosen them and that this should be achieved through scrutiny of the vote, and that control can be implemented through the obvious vote. Obviously, it's a misunderstanding of the meaning of the body and those who make it up. After the election by the National Assembly, after the election by the magistrates each member of the Supreme Judicial Council should be separated from the interests of those who elected him. Otherwise, he is a political representative, and it is obvious, and an attempt to intervene in the functioning of the Supreme Judicial Council, which should be independent of both the interests of the magistrates who vote and the interests of the MPs, respectively the political parties represented in the National Assembly. In terms of responsibility. Unable to take responsibility, the very presumption of seeking responsibility of one of the Council members, automatically resolves the issue of dependence. If the vote is to be held, those who have been developed before me by several speakers, it is obvious that we will form an independent body. These people should be bound, accountable only to the Law, only to the interests of good administration of the judiciary and, of course, to their own morals and conscience. That is, with this change obviously the majority, the government, wants to exercise strict control over each individual member of the Supreme Judicial Council. What may be the dependencies in which it falls? The most visible, simplest is the political dependence of the members elected by the National Assembly and those who nominated them. It is obvious that they will no longer be members of the Supreme Judicial Council, but will be representatives of the parties who nominated them to the Supreme Judicial Council. This will be easy because with the majority, two thirds of which will be elected, the different parties will have one representation. So the members of the Supreme Judicial Council will not think about the good governance of the system, but will think about how to please the party that broadcast them. Other dependencies may be related to the administration of justice itself. The third type of addictions can be of another nature. Then, when the vote is obvious, these dependencies will best be exposed to the functioning of the body. The members of the body cannot be held responsible because there was talk of responsibility, responsibility, responsibility, decisions of the body. This would mean taking responsibility of the individual MPs for the decisions adopted by the National Assembly. An absolute analogy, and I think it's a good one. Such a thesis develops, such arguments were given to protect the obvious vote. I would like to say to you that this will be a clear, clear step towards the dependence of the Supreme Judicial Council, an dependence passed through the dependencies of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. This will be the result of the introduction of the open vote. I don't know if it's Christian-democratic, but it's not democratic at all. It will lead to greater dependence of the Supreme Judicial Council and the executive and other interests which have become public in the years. We will definitely not support the open vote because it will turn the Supreme Judicial Council into a politically dependent body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u144	Thank you, Mr. Mikov. - What's the line? I won't. For the next speech, the People's Representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor to make two proposals. I will start with what was discussed by my colleagues before me, namely the obvious and secret vote. Dear colleagues, in the Law and the Constitution we have written that magistrates with high moral qualities are elected as members of the Supreme Judicial Council. That's not an empty phrase. So these must be people who don't have any fear of the decisions they make. The secret vote, excuse me for saying it this way, it's for the cowards. Otherwise, I can give an example of what the secret vote carries with something that happened in the National Assembly in the 40th Parliament when the government of Sergey Stanishev was elected. At the time, a prime minister was elected in secret, and after his proposal the government was tainted with a secret vote. And to this day in the BSP may be looking for those who voted against. That's just an example. I am categorically voting for a clear vote. I would like to stop your attention on the proposals that we have made 10 MPs from the Reformation Bloc by first signing Radan Kanev. I want to say one thing, I was impressed by a line in the room that sounded like this: If something was proposed by Radan Kanev, it is clear how we should vote. Look, maybe you're not gonna like this, but the point that's not with us is against us. It's Bolshevik, ladies and gentlemen. Don't let me take you back a hundred years in history. It is good to carefully monitor the proposals and vote on internal conviction. So, what's this about? We have made a proposal in § 17 concerning art. 33, para. 4, by offering the so-called double majority in decision making in the two colleagues in the judge's and prosecutor's college. And this is absolutely in line with the recommendations of the Venice Commission, in the sense that in the College of Judges the decisions should be taken by a majority of judges elected by judges and in the Prosecution College in order to be able to have control, depending on the powers of this institution, by the elected members of the Prosecution College who are elected by the Parliament to have control. That is why we propose a different way of making decisions, namely in the College of Judges, in deciding that the majority should be dominated by members of the College of Judges elected by judges, and that decisions should be taken by members of the College of Prosecutors elected by the National Assembly. I am telling you again: this is absolutely in line with the recommendations that have been given by the Venice Commission, and I will ask you to take a good look at this proposal and support it so that there may indeed be an independent court formed by the election of the College of Judges and to have a reportable College of the Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. A line? People's representative Valeri Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! Mr. Atanasov, the dispute over the nature of the secret and obvious vote must be as old as the world. You can prove that the obvious vote somehow guarantees honesty, integrity and openness, and the secret is the opposite, it just doesn't make sense in that thing. A secret vote is one of the greatest achievements of democracy. The secret of the vote is one of the greatest achievements! A clear vote is a medieval principle of voting. In some medieval collegial bodies that have gathered on a completely different principle than what we now know as modern institutions. What you are proposing may serve some of your ideas, but do not justify it with the principle of democracy, with the responsibility and integrity of the vote. There is no way you can convince anyone in this House that a clear vote is a guarantee of anything other than control of an external body. A clear vote is the possibility of control. How do you control a secret vote? You and I are also trying to argue with the exact same arguments different practices. The entire National Assembly has focused on how to guarantee the secret of the vote of the Bulgarian citizens when they express their preferences in the elections, and at the same time you want to introduce the opposite principle with the same arguments in the higher institutions of the judiciary. We here or something are out of our minds, or the same arguments we use in radically opposite directions. The second question is what you propose to vote on a corporate principle, because that is what judges are talking about, prosecutors for prosecutors. We resolved this issue when we discussed the amendments to the Constitution. You are now offering us to circumvent the amendments to the Constitution and return to your old idea. I'm sorry, it's not right! In addition to being incorrect from this point of view, it is also, to put it mildly, management untenable. And already here, a series of arguments were put forward when the amendments to the Constitution were voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Second line please, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atanasov, I would like to point out that in no other case would I take the floor under the Law on the Judiciary, because I am not a lawyer, but the constant inclusions of Mr. Martin Dimitrov provoked me to believe that everyone can speak on any subject and at any time. [[Radio.]] I'm trying to get you out of a pretty dangerous delusion. Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Dimitrov! The vote here in the National Assembly is clearly "first" because we are a political body. Secondly, because we are part of representative democracy, that is, we vote clearly because our constituents control us. Our sovereign has voted on a mandate, and we are here with this mandate, not with our conscience. Our conscience is the conscience of the voter. I hope you do not want to transfer this principle to a body that must be absolutely independent and depoliticized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. Without reference to what the honourable MP Anastasov said, a third line from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u151	Dear Mr. Atanasov, with regard to the last question, I would like to disagree with you, that is to say that in the secret vote, everyone in the Supreme Judicial Council knows how they actually voted and the presidents of the Supreme Courts and the Attorney General who are there, they know very well how everyone has voted because they are there and everything is visible. You can see it, and they know who voted. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u152	Please don't call from the gym! Please be quiet in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u153	Please, if you wish a line, have the dignity to stand here, from the stand, to make it, not to call from the spot. Kind of doesn't look like you. This is the secret vote, everyone there knows how they voted, but Bulgarian citizens do not know how who voted. In the obvious vote, the big change that will take place is not only within the Supreme Judicial Council to know who voted, because it has always been clear, but also for Bulgarian citizens to know which position has taken and these people to be personally responsible in the end. As for colleagues who have lost their current leader and feel confused
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u154	Mr. Dimitrov, you have a line to the MP Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u155	Yeah, I can hardly help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u156	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Come in, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have listened to the lines. Mr. Zablyanov, the separation of authorities means relative independence and mutual control. Read this thing. It is not your specialty of course, but it will be useful. Do you understand what this is about? So you can't talk about absolute independent organs. There are none because there is a mechanism of their formation and responsibility. And carrying responsibility means facing the decision you made, not hiding like a mouse. I didn't say secret vote was for cowards for a reason. The clear vote corresponds to the requirement for members of the Supreme Judicial Council to be elected people of high moral character, that is to say they have no fear of anything, so that is what I have to tell you. Otherwise, who manipulated whom, we deal with politics here and everyone is trying to convince others of the rightness of their position. I'm convinced of what I'm telling you here. My conviction hasn't been formed on the basis of addiction, I want to tell you. There is no way in which I can depend on anyone, but the formation of the majority in the two colleges, this is in no way regulated, honourable Members of the DPS, in the Constitution. The Constitution and I have divided the Supreme Judicial Council into two colleges and more. From now on, the way the decisions will be taken in the two colleges is a matter of legislative regulation. And I have given you my reasons and argument why I propose this because it is in line with what the magistrates of the Venice Commission have written for us, especially for the College of Judges, the decisions to be taken by judges who have been elected by judges. That's what we offer with our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u158	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. First, Mr. Zablyanov in the manner of conduct, then Mr. Anastasov in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The line is a procedure that is very clear as content what it is, and when colleagues in this tribune violate the procedure there are two assumptions: one is that they do not understand what they are doing and the other is that they abuse. I believe that Mr. Dimitrov covers both hypotheses at the same time, and very please, when this is repeated quite often, take away his word in time, so that we do not first defile the reply procedure, and secondly we do not feel that there are different reasons between us there are privileged MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u160	Mr. Dimitrov disagreed with what Mr. Atanasov said in his speech, which is how the procedure was formulated. Here you are, Mr. Anastasov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. However, I would ask you, when fellow MPs here use words such as the cowards, the mice, related to the secret vote, to make a sharp remark to them, as well as to Mr. Atanasov, because in this way he directly insults seven million Bulgarian citizens who exercise their constitutional right to a secret vote. I understand that this corresponds to the political thesis that Bulgarian citizens are not intelligent enough to choose the Commander, but, please, we owe this to Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u162	Of course, only that we are currently discussing the election of the Supreme Judicial Council, not the way of exercising electoral rights by the Bulgarian voters. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! I've been provoked by the pre-talkers to get involved in this subject without being a professional lawyer. Absurd is the demagogy used to impose a clear vote. I understand that some people before November 10 are well trained in demagogy in these services and know how to demagogize and how to twist certain ones. Yes, from a place I replicated that this is a mockery with seven million Bulgarians that they are cowards. It's absurd to insult someone that when they vote in secret, they're a coward. Come on, let's not pretend to be very brave people, very erbap people. And goons are brave people, aren't they? However, let us not compare them to the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, I think. Believe that secret voting is the best way for people to show what they really think. There's no one who doesn't feel fear. Let someone in this room stand up and say they're not afraid of anything. There isn't one! And the Bible says, "God will forgive me." [[noise and lines]] To throw a stone. I beg you very much, when you speak of a secret and a clear vote, consider it. The idea that they knew how to vote is normal, and home my family knows how to vote each and every one of us. But this is one thing, another is when you stand in a position and a decision is democracy, this is the democratic way to vote. Back in ancient Greece, when white and black balls were released, there was a true principle of democracy. So I'm going to ask you not to demagogize from the stands. It is obvious that a certain part of you are willing to impose a clear vote. Okay, your thesis, control them. Sooner or later, the secret vote will be restored when it is understood that the control of the Supreme Judicial Council is not in the interest of the Bulgarian citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Anastasov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On this subject, I do not want to bore you anymore. I think we've heard all the arguments and everyone voting on their consciences. I only take a line for the suggestion that's being made. My line in some sense is a personal explanation, but I want this to be heard because I keep hearing it from the BSP and it concerns me. Mr. Anastasov, I was assigned to work at the Ministry of Interior on 14 February 1992 and I have never been in contact with any services before to make this clear to you. Stop giving impressions of who generals were and so on. On February 14, 1992, I joined the Ministry of Interior and told you when I was fired in 1995. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u166	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Anastasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u167	My line would be an answer to what you turned around with. Well, I'll tell you, I've never been a member of the Communist Party, and I'm not gonna be. I am a Bulgarian Social Democrat and I will remain a continuor of the ideas of Yanko Sakizov, Dr. Petar Dertliev. And that you've been in the system since 1992, that's nice. I didn't mean just one person. I usually say that there are people who are great specialists in demagogy, which I'm done with. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u168	After these kind of lines and replicas, there is a speech for the people representative Christian Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! Honourable Members of Parliament, I call on you to support the text tabled by the Council of Ministers for a clear vote, and I am doing so on the basis of the basic motive of a study that had come out last year. It has also been cited repeatedly in the adoption of the updated Strategy for Reform of the Judicial System and in the adoption of the amendments to the Constitution, namely 90% of Bulgarian citizens do not trust the judiciary. When we talk about a lack of confidence, we talk mainly about specific cases, specific actions, specific violations and procedural laws, incorrect application of material laws by specific magistrates as a result of the current policy and the current way of selection, which was carried out in the Supreme Judicial Council and in this Chamber, and in the previous Chambers as a result of the secret vote. What we're hearing here as arguments from the apologists of the secret vote sounds absolutely untenable to me. It's called: this ensures greater democracy and eliminates the possibility of influence. On the contrary, on the contrary, all these years we are witnessing and it is a public secret that practically much of the personnel decisions are made precisely on the basis of the influence trade in question, even the use of corruption practices in question, so as to achieve a corresponding personnel result in one or another direction desired by different circles. This must be put an end to the introduction of the open vote. I will not dwell again on examples spoken by my fellow Members, both with the National Assembly and with this Chamber, which has chosen a very large number of regulatory bodies with a clear vote. Do I remind you of the election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, the election of the Governor of the Bulgarian National Bank, of members of the Board of Directors, of the Fiscal Council, of members of the Court of Auditors?! What was the choice, colleagues? The choice was clear, it wasn't secret. Should we then think that the colleagues who defend the secret vote were somehow controlled or manipulated to make their decision in these obviously personnel decisions of the National Assembly?! I believe that the clear vote will meet mostly the expectations of Bulgarian citizens for a much clearer, more justified and better personnel policy on the part of the Supreme Judicial Council, on the one hand, and on the other hand the responsibility of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council will be increased to society as a whole, as they should not be out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. First line, Mr. Chetin Kazak, second line, Mr. Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Mitev, you talked about corruption practices. Maybe there were some. But answer me the following question: when can a corrupt practice have a more real chance of being successful when the person who offers the benefit of the person on whom the decision depends be controlled whether he has fulfilled the commitment promised to him or when the person who must take the decision and receive the corresponding benefit cannot be directly controlled whether he has fulfilled the commitment or not? Answer this question to me: what implies a wider and easier application of corruption pressure and corruption temptation, whether the possibility of being immediately controlled whether you have fulfilled the commitment made after corruption pressure or when you cannot be controlled? These things, Mr. Mitev, about responsibility, about transparency and so on, are really funny. They're funny! You can't compare the political body with the National Assembly, which is exceptional because its main function is another, its main function is to legislate and exercise parliamentary control, with the activities of an almost exclusively personnel body, such as the Supreme Judicial Council. A huge part of the decisions there are personnel related to certain individuals in particular. In this regard, there are other requirements and other expectations for efficiency and decision-making by conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Kazak. The line, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u173	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! Colleague Mitev, your parents are deeply mistaken. First of all, what does mistrust have to do with anything? I am sure it is, as you say, 90% of Bulgarian citizens are dissatisfied with the justice system and the way decisions are being made now in the SJC. There's no direct link to this. Secondly, how do you suggest that a clear vote will lead to better results? On the contrary! The arguments have been made here a hundred times, but you don't want to understand them. Yours are ridiculous! Thirdly, why did the National Assembly choose clearly? Well, colleagues, we choose and form other government bodies. What is the connection between the members of these state bodies and the members of the National Assembly afterwards? Will any of these government authorities come back here to the National Assembly so that someone can influence them?! They are by law and Constitution other independent bodies. On them independence is guaranteed, and you want members of the SJC who are part of the system and will return to the same system, and will be subordinate to some degree of administrative leaders, you want them to have courage, courage and so on and feel absolutely independent and free in decision-making. It's ridiculous! Get this through your head! Only the secret vote will give real freedom of expression, including on the most important personnel issues. And if you don't want to cross the independence of the judiciary, don't vote for the open vote. At least on the important issues to be addressed in the SJC. The others can. It's okay with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u174	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kazak, I am not so skilled in the ways in which relevant corruption practices are carried out and I cannot answer the question which corruption practice is better under what conditions. You obviously have more information, you have more knowledge in this area. I can't give you an answer to that question. I can only tell you that, in practice, the National Assembly, when electing members of state bodies, does not make it an exception, but does it first on an obligation imposed by the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by leaving the Council of Ministers and then by special laws, where certain compositions of different state bodies are required to be filled by the election of the MPs. Dear colleague Georgiev, you say that you do not understand the relationship between trust in the judiciary and the connection with the clear and secret vote. The connection is very obvious. The judicial system itself is not something imaginary, existing only as a thought and legal structure. The judicial system consists of those magistrates who enter the courtrooms: those who support the prosecution and who are members of the prosecution, and the others who perform the function of solving the issues, the so-called work of the administration, namely the judges. Of course, investigators who investigate criminal cases are involved. We are talking here about specific personalities, about a specific personnel composition of this judicial system. We are not talking about a philosophical-legal structure that exists only in the minds of lawyers and the text of the Law. It is these particular people, however cliché it may sound, who decide human destinies. Until now, they have been chosen in one way that, if you are interested in what the citizens think, they think it is deeply wrong not to say stronger words. Precisely when faced with the lack of the necessary professional and moral qualities in part of the Bulgarian magistrates, they lead to this collapse in trust in the judiciary. By improving the way personnel selection is carried out in the Master's degree, this is how we can lead to individuals who possess these qualities and restore people's trust in the judiciary. I therefore call on you to support the text of the importer for a clear vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We've seen that a lot of colleagues seem to be worried about the secret vote. They want everyone to be held accountable, everyone to bear the consequences...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u178	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u179	To protect them from such concerns, on the grounds of art. 63, para. 1 sentence last of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that the vote on this paragraph be secret. [[Laughter and excitement in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u180	A reverse opinion? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I object to this proposal. It's inappropriate. It has not been done according to the requirements of the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues, I'm paying attention to this. An hour and fifty minutes we discussed a matter that we are not discussing for the first time. Now we're at § 17, and we still have about 70 paragraphs of this bill. We have dragged the debate out, we have entered into wide-ranging and widely popular debates and presentations of thoughts about the secret of the vote. Mr. Chairman and colleagues, please optimize our work and get back to work on the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u182	Mr. Kazak proposed a secret vote on this paragraph on the grounds of art. 63, para. 1 of the Rules. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1 writes: The National Assembly may decide a separate vote to be secret. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 is written that a motion to vote under art. 63, para. 2... but this is now the next paragraph. So there are no obstacles to put Mr. Kazak's proposal to the vote. We are voting on Mr. Kazak's proposal for a secret vote. Vote 134 MPs: 48 against 70 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. Debates closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 134 MPs: for no, against 91, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Chetin Kazak and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 50, against 60, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for a proposal from MP Radan Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 13 against 103, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 48 against 64, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote a proposal made by the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 by the MP Yavor Haytov, which was not found in the report but was presented by the President of the Commission and by the MP Yavor Haytov himself, the proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 51, against 21, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17 supported by the Commission. We are voting § 17 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 92 against 41, abstention 5. Paragraph 17 of the Commission report has been adopted. Dear Mr. Kirilov................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Paragraph 18 "A proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 18, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4... is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Desislava Atanasova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 1 after the word "sitting', the word "sitting' shall be added to the plenary or to the college concerned, and the word "sitting' shall be deleted. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The decisions of the plenary or of the college concerned shall be reasoned. The reasons for the decision adopting the proposal shall be considered to be the motives of its importer, as well as the statements of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council in support of it. The negative statements of the members of the Supreme Judicial Council against him shall be considered as grounds for the decision not to accept the proposal. The lack of reasons is a stand-alone ground for annulment of the decision. 4. The creation of para. 4. No vote shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u184	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 8 against 58, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported in principle by the Commission and edited by the same for § 18 in accordance with its report. We are voting § 18 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 8. Paragraph 18 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u185	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs: In § 21, in the new content of art. 37 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Committee on Appeals and Competitions at the College of Judges shall be composed of members of the College. It shall carry out its activities together with a committee of elected members from judges acting at the time of the election, with a rank or position of judge at the Supreme Court of Cassation or the Supreme Administrative Court, who shall not participate in the vote and/or participate in an advisory vote. The administrative directors of the courts and their alternates may not be elected to that committee. 2. In para. 5 the words in the Committee on Appeals and Competitions in the College of Judges shall be replaced by the members of that Committee. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The Board of Appeals and Competitions of the Prosecutor's College shall be composed of members of the College. It shall carry out its activities together with a committee of elected members of the prosecutors and investigators acting at the time of selection with a rank or position of prosecutor in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office or an investigator in the National Investigation Service who shall not participate in the vote and/or participate in an advisory vote. The administrative directors of the prosecutors and their alternates shall not be elected to that committee. 4. In para. 7 the words in the Committee on Testimonials and Competitions at the Prosecutor's College are replaced by the members of that committee. 5. In para. The 8th sentence is first amended as follows: The position of the elected members of the committees by acting judges, prosecutors and investigators, together with the committees on the attestations and contests of the two colleges, is one year old. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u186	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u187	Mr President, honourable Members, Madam Minister, our proposals relate to the fact that the proposal of the importer allows external members, outsiders for the Supreme Judicial Council to participate in the committees. In this way, the very essence of the Supreme Judicial Council will be replaced. We form it in one way, and then the committees that will prepare the work and prejudge the decision-making will be from others. Understand, this is unacceptable. I therefore call on you to support our proposals, which preserve this body's independence, including in the committees that will actually do much of the work. This is the essence of our proposals. If you really want to confirm the role of this body, do not allow what is proposed by the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u188	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Chavdar Georgiev and a group of MPs under § 21 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 6, against 59, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 19, 20 and 21 by importer, which shall be fully supported by the Commission. Vote 86 MPs: 79, against 6, abstention 1. Paragraphs 19, 20 and 21 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47. The Commission proposes to create a new § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 194 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the event of mutual agreement to exchange an equal position of judges in another court, of prosecutors in another prosecution, and of investigators in another investigative department, and of their administrative leaders, they shall be moved without a contest by decision of the College of the Supreme Judicial Council concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u190	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote paragraphs 22 to 47, which are fully supported by the Commission, as well as the proposal to create a new § 48. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 7, no abstentions. Paragraphs 22 to 48, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u191	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 54. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 54, which shall become § 55. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 56, which shall become § 57.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u192	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 48 to 56, including by importer, which are fully supported by the Commission and shall be placed in its report as paragraphs 49 to 57 inclusive. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 5, abstention 1. Paragraphs 49 to 57, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u193	There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Kadiev: A new § 56a is being created with the text: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 264, para. 2 is The State enforcement authorities shall enforce private holdings. The State and the authorities competent to establish public claims may assign to the state enforcement and recovery of public claims. Their forced assembly shall be carried out in accordance with the Civil Procedure Code. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: A new § 56b is being created with the text: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 The competition shall be held by a committee in the composition of the Administrative Head of the relevant Regional Court and two members appointed by the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice shall designate the chairman of the committee. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u194	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev to create new paragraphs 56a and 56b, both proposals are not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 8 against 59, abstention 19. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u195	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 58, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59, which shall become § 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 61, which shall become § 62. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 62, which shall become § 63. Under § 63, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Kirilov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 63, which shall become § 64: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 341 is amended as follows: Art. 341. (1) The Colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council shall issue, in consultation with the Commission, "Budget and Finances" "Classifier of the posts of the relevant bodies of the judiciary, which shall determine the titles of the posts, the minimum degree of education and other requirements for the position concerned, the remuneration for the position, the rank of office and the remuneration for rank. (2) The number of judicial officers in the judicial authorities shall be determined by the colleges on a proposal from the administrative director concerned, according to the degree of workload of the judicial authority and in coordination with the Commission. (3) The Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council shall issue a Classifier of the posts in the administration of the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Institute of Justice and shall, after consultation with the Chief Inspector and the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. The Classifier shall define the names of the posts, the minimum level of education and other requirements for the position concerned, the remuneration for the post, the rank of the post and the remuneration for rank. (4) The number of judicial officers in the administration of the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Institute of Justice shall be determined by the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council on a proposal from the Head. The number of administration of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council shall be validated by the Chief Inspector according to the workload of the body and its budget. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64, which shall become § 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u196	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I put to the vote paragraphs 57 to 64 by importer, which, following the Commission's support, become paragraphs 58 to 65, including in its report. Vote 84 MPs: 79 against 5, no abstentions. Paragraphs 58 to 65, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u197	The Commission proposes to create a new § 66: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 355, para. 8 words. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65, which shall become § 67. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66, which shall become § 68. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 67, which shall become § 69. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 68, which shall become § 70. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69, which shall become § 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 70, which shall become § 72. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71, which shall become § 73. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72, which shall become § 74. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 73, which shall become § 75: ................................................................................... In the other texts of the law, the words....................................................... of judges, prosecutors and investigators............................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to create a new § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary in § 33, para. 2 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u198	Statements? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote paragraphs 65 to 73 by importer which are supported by the Commission and become paragraphs 67 to 75 by its report, as well as the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 76 in its report. We are voting for the creation of the new § 76, as well as the proposed new § 66, on the Commission's report we are voting from 66 paragraph to 76 including, on the Commission's report. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 7, no abstentions. Paragraphs 66 to 76, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u199	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 74, which shall become § 77. According to § 75 there is a proposal from the MP Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Dimitar Delchev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 75, which shall become § 78: ...... 78............................................................................ (1) The direct selection of members of the Supreme Judicial Council by judges, prosecutors and investigators shall be conducted by electronic remote voting if, before the election, the Supreme Judicial Council implements a system to ensure the secret of voting and free will. The electronic vote does not cancel the possibility of voting by paper ballots. In the rules of art. 29b, para. 1 shall be defined and the order for electronic remote voting shall be laid down. (2) No later than 10 months before the expiry of the term of office of the elected members of the elected in 2012. The Supreme Judicial Council shall hold an experimental electronic remote voting according to the rules of art. 29b, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Under § 76, there is a proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov in accordance with Article 76. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 76, which shall become § 79: ....... 79........................................................................... The direct selection of members of the Supreme Judicial Council by judges, prosecutors and investigators may also take place through a machine vote if, before the election, the Supreme Judicial Council implements a system to ensure the secrecy of the vote and the free volition and, in the event of economic appropriateness of the electronic vote. The machine voting shall be carried out in accordance with the order and rules of Chapter Two, Section Ia, and the voting device shall show the newsletter identical to the paper. One polling section shall take into account the results of not more than five voting devices. The machine vote does not cancel the possibility of voting by remote electronic means and by paper bulletins.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u200	Go to the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u201	Paragraph 77. Under § 77, Mr President, the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 77, which becomes § 80. But under § 77, please correct the amendment for which colleague Alexandrova wishes to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u202	All right, the text of the importer for § 77, which becomes § 80.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u203	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In § 77, in the last paragraph of the sentence, a technical error has been made and I ask that, instead of..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u205	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the texts just presented on the Commission report, we will determine three types or three ways of voting for the relevant members of the Supreme Judicial Council. First, an electronic remote vote with which we from BSP left Bulgaria are strongly opposed because it does not provide either the voluntaryness or the authenticity of the vote or the secret of the vote. Secondly, the paper newsletter clearly retains the possibility, which should be secret, as well as by machine voting, which is also written that it is secret and which is fair and correct. In this regard, I propose that procedurally, Mr President, paragraphs 78 and 79 should not be voted in general with the other paragraphs on the Commission report, but separately so that any way or types of voting which is proposed with these changes can be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u206	Do you mean by the Commission's report or by importer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u207	The Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u208	Paragraphs 78 and 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u209	Paragraph 78 separately and § 79 separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u210	Is there a reverse opinion on this procedure? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u211	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We all know BSP's position is against remote electronic voting. They've told us 101 times in connection with the Election Code. Now to repeat things to us for the 102nd time I think you absolutely don't need to. In the Commission, we have had a serious debate already, it has supported the proposals in this form, as they have been tabled. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that allowing all three types of votes to be used ensures, in practice, that there will be a qualitative and successful choice. If there is a problem with some type of vote, then it can be voted in the alternative other ways. I return you again at the beginning of the debate, where we have discussed long and wide, if you remember, is this floating quorum admissible in such a kind of choice or is it not admissible and consensus that we still agreed to have a minimum threshold of 33% of the magistrates to vote on in order to have an elementary representativeness of the choice. So let us not take away the possibility that this threshold of 33% can be achieved, that there is a successful choice and that we are questioning it by removing one or another way of voting, which could limit the people of the Magistrate community to exercising their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u212	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. We accept that this is the opposite opinion of the procedure made by Mr. Georgiev. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Chavdar Georgiev for a separate vote on art. Art. 75, Art. 76 by importer which, respectively, in the Commission report, are Articles 78 and 79. Vote 78 MPs: 11 against 52, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Are there any other speeches on the rapporteur's so presented? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote what you have proposed by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova in art. 77 by importer to make a technical error and at the end of the text instead of § 78 to read § 81. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 73, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Board of Appeal and the final provisions, as well as paragraphs 74 to 77, including by importer, together with the proposal made and just adopted by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova, which in the Commission's report are paragraphs 77 to 80 inclusive. Please vote on the name but the division and paragraphs 77 to 80 of the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 72 against 7, abstention 1. The name of the division "Transitional and final provisions' and paragraphs 77 to 80, including the Commission's report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u213	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 82. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 80, which shall become § 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 81, which shall become § 84. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 82, which shall become § 85. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 86: ........ 86...................................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the members of the Supreme Judicial Council. 2. In para. 3: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "six and seven' are replaced by "six, seven, and eight. (b) To be created t. 4. "4." in the case of members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the decision of the College or of the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council shall be taken in accordance with the procedure laid down, where the College or plenary shall meet in an indoor meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u214	Statements? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote paragraphs 78 to 82, including by importer, which are fully supported by the Commission, become paragraphs 81 to 85 in its report, as well as the creation of a new § 86 with its respective content on the Commission report. We are voting on paragraphs 81 to 86, including the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 78 against 6, no abstentions. Paragraphs until the end of the Bill have been adopted and they are from 81 to 86 inclusive. We have concluded the bill and it has been passed in a second vote. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT OF THE MINISTER OF JUSTICE ON THE APPLICATION OF THE DECISIONS OF THE EUROPEAN COURT ON THE RIGHTS OF THE HUMAN IN CASE OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2014 The importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2015. He was taken under heading 502-00-21 on 19 March 2015. We have a joint report from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. The report will be presented to us by the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs, National Representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u215	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! I allow myself, before presenting this report, to thank all my colleagues from the Legal Commission, the Minister for working in the Judicial Reform Council and all my fellow Members who participated in the debates on this heavy bill. I hope that the Law on the Judiciary will be supported by the MPs and by the National Assembly. I present to your attention a joint report from the two committees on legal issues and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, No 502-00-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2015. At a joint meeting held on 13 May 2015, on the basis of art. 109, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Religions and Human Rights addressed the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014, No 502-00-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19.03.2015. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Hristo Ivanov The annual report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014 was presented by Mr. Hristo Ivanov at the time Minister of Justice. The report contains statistical information for the period 2010 - 2014 showing that compared to the previous four years, in 2014 the number of complaints against Bulgaria, which have been allocated to a formation of judges and the number of decisions given with at least one infringement was significantly reduced. A lasting trend is established to improve Bulgaria's compliance with human rights standards. As factors that are essential to this, Minister Ivanov pointed out the internal mechanism for reaching an agreement in Bulgaria and the positive trend on the duration of the cases. The discussion of the report was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Cetin Kazak, Philip Popov, Krasimir Velchev, Dimitar Lazarov, Chavdar Georgiev and Yavor Notev. Having expressed their satisfaction with the marked trend of reducing the number of complaints lodged at the European Court of Human Rights against the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the judgment decisions given, the MPs raised questions about: - the actions taken in relation to improving conditions in places of imprisonment and the prospect of building new ones corresponding to modern standards; - maintaining the tendency to reduce the number of complaints as of May 2015; - actions to address the imbalance in the workload of different courts and individual judges in different judicial areas; - the actions taken to prepare the necessary legislative amendments relating to infringements of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms established by the European Court of Human Rights; - the existence of uniform standards on the duration of the period of examination of complaints by Bulgarian citizens and nationals of other countries; - the existence of uniform standards for determining the amount of compensation due; - the effect of the participation of a Bulgarian judge in the decisive Chamber of the Court of Justice is this participation. In relation to the issues raised, the Minister of Justice Mr. Hristo Ivanov pointed out the concrete actions taken to finance the renovation activities of the places of imprisonment within the Norwegian programme, as well as the actions to develop norms for improving the ratio between the number of prisoners and the security staff. Ms Milena Kotseva pointed out that there are currently no statistics on the number of complaints lodged in 2015 in the European Court of Human Rights, but the trend of recent years should remain. The Minister of Justice Mr. Ivanov noted that the great delay in dealing with criminal cases is taking place in the pre-trial phase, and the problem of overload in Sofia courts can to a large extent be resolved by ensuring the necessary building fund. Among the priorities of the Ministry of Justice is the provision of judicial buildings, which are needed in increasing the state staff in order to solve the problem of overcharge. In order to address the problems related to the uneven workload of the courts, the Ministry of Justice has financed a series of studies on workload and other factors for access to justice. In so far as uniform statistical reporting is lacking and the various courts have different estimates of their workload, the uniform burden and methodology for its calculation will also be important for the resolution of the matter by the Supreme Judicial Council. As a result of the analyses, a restructuring of the geographical map can be proposed in a way that does not make it difficult for citizens. The Minister of Justice noted that there was a dialogue with the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and with the Prosecutor General on the issues of the implementation of the PPC and the PDK, for the resolution of which public and professional debate is needed. An important direction in the activities of the Ministry of Justice is the development of a comprehensive budget restructuring programme, the judicial map, the improvement of procedural rules, leading to acceleration, higher quality and higher efficiency in the use of resources. On the issue of optimization of the judiciary budget the expertise of experts from the World Bank, from England and the Netherlands, who have significantly reduced their costs of justice. With regard to the issue of the actions taken to prepare the necessary legislative amendments to ensure the participation of shareholders in the appeal proceedings against the decisions of BNB on withdrawal of a banking licence, the Minister of Justice Mr. Ivanov noted that the necessary amendments to the issue of bank bankruptcy are being developed in the Ministry of Finance. Currently, the Ministry of Justice is referring to the present moment, a plan of action is being developed in the case of Neshkov and others against Bulgaria..................................... about the conditions in prisons...... and there are specific deadlines and measures to be implemented. To the question of the reasons for the sharp decline in the number of complaints after 2012, the Minister of Justice replied that this was due to the adopted internal mechanism for the conclusion of an agreement, also noting the need to introduce two more mechanisms on complaints concerning prison conditions and on carrying out continuous monitoring of the legislative process in terms of a preliminary assessment of compliance with the standards of the European Court of Human Rights. As another factor that matters to reduce the number of complaints against Bulgaria, Ms. Milena Kotseva noted the reforms in the European Court of Human Rights itself after the two additional protocols to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which led to a reduction in the percentage of complaints admitted to consideration. In this regard, Minister Ivanov pointed out that funding under the Norwegian programme allowed six Bulgarian judges to work in the European Court of Human Rights, where they conducted preliminary screening of complaints. On the issue of the existence of the same standard in the period of registration of complaints by citizens of Bulgaria and other countries, Mrs. Maria Dimitrova pointed out that there is no statistical information as to whether there is a difference between the periods for which the Court examines complaints by Bulgarian citizens and complaints by citizens of other Member States, but in general the European Court of Human Rights has a problem with the rapid handling of complaints. As regards the existence of a difference in the amount of compensation, it explained that the Court also took into account the economic situation of the State and the standard of living. According to her, the participation of a national judge in the ruling panel should be assessed positively because he knows best what the situation is. The other Judges' work in the Registry of the Court of Justice, whose activity is related to the handling of complaints, must also be positively assessed. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers supported the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 502 - 21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2015; The Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 10 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers supported the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria for 2014, No 502-21, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2015 and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u216	Do you have the solution project? But before that, the procedure. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose a procedure for extending the time of today's meeting until this item is adopted on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u218	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov to extend the working time until the decision is voted on. Vote 70 MPs: 59 against 7, abstention 4. [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I see there's movement in the hall. I request a revoting procedure, as well as inviting the Members of the National Assembly to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u220	Revoting the proposal to extend working time until this item is adopted on the agenda. Vote 72 MPs: 65 against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Kirilov, please present the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u221	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! Presenting: "Project" DECISION on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the Decision of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopt the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights in cases against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014 and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u222	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Before I open the debate, let me remind you that both committees, with full unanimity, have approved this draft decision. The people's representative Ilija Iliev has the floor to speak. After that, Dimitar Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u223	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u224	We've just made a decision to extend the day. Please explain to Mr. Anastasov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! I have heard the detailed report presented by my colleague Kirilov, but I think there are a lot of things that need to be mentioned in this House. In relation to this report, I would like to make some comments and concerns. The report presents a total of 12 problem groups, at least as mentioned by the reporter, which are of general interest to the Commission and to the authorities that have investigated them, I would say. In any of these 12 groups, however, I found no information given by our authorities on cases by the European Court of Human Rights relating to the rights of Roma and minority rights, and there are a lot of such cases there. How many cases are there, how many are profitable and how many are losers? We have repeatedly received criticism from the Court of Justice and the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe for gaps and problems precisely on minority issues. My fellow Members, I believe that 99% of the complaints made concerning the rights of Roma and minority rights are profitable in the European Court of Human Rights. We have witnessed many times, for example, Bulgarian institutions and municipalities tearing down residential buildings of Roma, and they and their children remain without a roof over their heads. This is precisely why Bulgaria has repeatedly received criticism from the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. Well, Madam Minister, I would like to ask: why are these criticisms and findings not in the report in question? Aren't they important to us? Maybe some clerk just decided to save it? Is this another political maneuver that masks the problems of Roma and minorities in Bulgaria?! I think, colleague Kirilov, that it is good in the report itself to mention some of the most interesting facts or at least three of the groups. Three of the groups mentioned by the Secretariat of the Committee of Ministers relate precisely to violations due to bodily injury and death due to unjustified or poorly planned use of firearms by police officers. Unfortunately, ahead in the report, each one of you can see on page 1. 10 is mentioned, yet I say that the works in these groups continue to increase. Despite some cosmetic changes made to the Ministry of Interior Act, effective measures have not been taken so far to ensure and conduct rapid and impartial investigations towards police officers who have exceeded their rights. Furthermore, the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers continues to defend the issue with particular emphasis, namely the need for specific measures to enable the identification of masked police officers working primarily in special units against which there are complaints of inhumane treatment, as well as to ensure impartiality and independence of police officers involved in any form of investigation or verification of other police officers against whom there are complaints of unlawful use of force. For example, in the decision in the Hristov case against Bulgaria, the European Court of Human Rights has accepted that when circumstances are such that authorities are obliged to use masked officers to carry out detention, the latter must be obliged to show clearly some anonymous identification signs, such as a number or a letter, in order for police officers to be identified. Tomorrow, when any of these officers invade somewhere wearing masks and masks, if any of them exceed their rights, the boss of the operation can say, "These aren't our policemen. Some goons went in there. One of the goons was a goon. Therefore, in my opinion, this remark is absolutely justified and many Bulgarian citizens have had complaints about such cases. After that, however, they remain unsolved and unsolved. Bulgaria is therefore subject to sanctions and is sentenced by the Court of Justice. In this way, it may be possible, when identified, to be questioned in the event of a complaint concerning the manner in which the operation was conducted. The fulfilment of this requirement, arising from the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, requires that the relevant amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act be adopted, I do not know whether you have considered this in the committees, I regret that I have not been there. Art. 191, Art. 150 of the Rules of Implementation of the Law. Here is the moment, honourable Members, we, as MPs, invite each of the parliamentary groups to initiate changes in art. 91 of the Law and in art. 150 of the Implementing Rules. I am making this proposal so that a transparent and effective change can be created by all of us. And I would very much like that change to be supported by all the parliamentary groups, because there is nothing political here. On this depends the authority and reputation of Bulgaria in front of the world. A little up-to-date statistical information I'm gonna take the liberty of giving. According to the official statistical information of the European Court of Human Rights Secretariat, for 2014, Member States with the largest number of judgment decisions establishing at least one infringement of the Convention are: Russia In this ranking for 2014 Bulgaria ranks 12th with 18 decisions establishing at least one violation of the Convention. As of 31 December 2014, the majority of the pending cases were against Ukraine - 19.5%, Italy - 14.4, Russia - 14.3, and Turkey - 13.6. According to the criterion, the number of pending cases, distributed to the judicial staff, Bulgaria ranks 16th with 969 complaints. Those figures confirm the trend, as my colleague Kirilov said, of reducing the number of pending complaints against Bulgaria and after years our country held between 7th and 9th place in this ranking, in 2014 Bulgaria is permanently outside the ten member states of the Council of Europe, with the most complaints before the European Court of Human Rights. Dear colleagues, note, however, what column Bulgaria enters into, what benchmark analysis between Ukraine, Russia and Turkey. Come on, let's say Italy, which is a 60-million-dollar country. The fact that this report makes a comparative analysis with the countries Ukraine, Russia and Turkey, for which any normally intelligent person should have claims to know their legislation from a common human rights practice. I think these are not the countries in which human rights are countries with the most confirmed and harmonious practice of both Russia and Ukraine and Turkey. Not because of anything else, but because these are countries that are not members of the European Union. Dear colleagues, we have all heard that in all three countries, there are repeatedly cases where just like that people disappear without a trace, including journalists, no one can find them afterwards. I think that this is absolutely unworthy of us, for Bulgaria as a country a member of the European Union, to compare ourselves with countries in this particular respect, because they are not for example, they are light-years from each country a member of the European Union. We say, Madam Minister: here, look at how much we have achieved, we are further behind than Russia, Ukraine and Turkey. If these are our objectives and if we set goals in such rankings to compare ourselves with countries that are outside the European Union, I think that this is not commendable for us. Just because another case, another conviction, today I read again in the press that there is another case, we are condemned to pay 85,000. EUR for being outside and outside the synchronization of this legislation. And most of all, that's what's wrong with the Bulgarian taxpayer's pocket, all of us. Another important point, which we cannot pass just like that, is the statistics on the total number of complaints submitted to the European Court of Human Rights for 2010. 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, namely: for 2010 we have a total number of complaints filed The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, It is not bad here, colleague Kirilov and all colleagues, especially from the ruling majority, to bear in mind that really during the management of GERB, absolutely self-government, at least the complaints made to the European Court of Human Rights have been made during your governance. I hope you learn from this and this does not continue to be a trend. [[GERB lines.]] There are statistics for 2014, colleague Kirilov. For 2014 the statistics receive the information from 2013, at least I think so. [[GERB lines.]] The total number of Bulgarian decisions for the implementation stage is 324, of which about 95 are precedents for decisions which pose a separate problem under the Convention and not repeated in other decisions against Bulgaria. This means that outside these 95 cases, which are precedents, the other 229 are cases, much of which are repeated on the same subjects. That is what, honourable Members, is a true factology that shows us that we need legislation to be corrected, to change the laws so that we can reduce Bulgaria's condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights to a minimum. Mostly because that's what's wrong with the taxpayer's pocket. I think we should set higher goals. If you think about it, honourable Members, imagine when the law enforcement machine in Bulgaria is involved to work on a particular case or case, judges, prosecutors, investigators and all these investigative bodies spend tens of thousands, hundreds of leva on a budget, on electricity, on the Internet, on paper, on salaries, even on steam for the offices in which they work and then the European Court of Human Rights turns out to condemn quite vice versa all this is a loss for the taxpayer. [[Replying from the hall.]] And in conclusion, honourable Members, to each of the problematic points mentioned by the Committee of Ministers to the Council of Europe, we are recommended to synchronise our legislation immediately and in a timely manner according to the recommendations given. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u226	Thank you, dear Mr. Iliev. Any other speeches? Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u227	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you and congratulate all of you on the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary adopted today. I am convinced that with today's vote we met the expectations of Bulgarian citizens and magistrates. Yeah, it's a report. He reports absolutely fair problems that are facing Bulgaria. The statistics that have just been read are from the report itself, which is presented by the Minister of Justice. There is a lasting trend for reducing the number of cases to which Bulgaria is a party and this is mainly the result of the amendments adopted in 2012 in the Law on the Judiciary, number 50, if I am not mistaken, which introduce a preliminary procedure under a preliminary agreement. Therefore, the cases are very positive statistics, about 960 something that was conveniently neglected to mention, as of 2014. That is to say, from over 3800 with the adopted amendments of the Law on the Judiciary in Borisov 1 cabinet actually the statistics are in favor of Bulgaria from over 3000 to 960 or 90 was in 2014. Of course, we are not proud of judgmental decisions and precedents. The report very clearly mentions in each group of problematic cases the measures that have been taken, many of them already completed, some pending or adopted at first reading in the National Assembly, such as the Civil Procedure Code. With regard to prisons, we have a plan and we are working on it. I am convinced that, with the amendment of the Law, which we will propose within a few months, for the execution of the sentence, we will also respond to this big Chapter. It was conveniently missed that not only countries outside the European Union are in the first ten. I am happy that the work of a number of governments and parliaments before me has taken Bulgaria out of the first ten. There are other European countries. Romania is far ahead of us, Greece and Hungary. These are all Member States of the European Union. [[Reply.]] Romania not so much, nor Greece I think much bigger than Bulgaria. Our mission and our goal, not just to the Justice Department. Yeah, we bring in the report, we have files, and we report on each of them what we've done. Our goal, to all of us, must be not to throw reproach on each other, but to adopt the legislative amendments that are imposed in order for us to have less and less, not to say that we should reduce, if possible, to zero, although there is no country in which they are reduced to zero, the convictions, and that in the precedent decisions. We're working on an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Much of the decisions are actually about the speed of the criminal trial. By the end of April, as we have promised, the Council of Ministers will propose an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure precisely in order to reduce pre-trial proceedings, not to obtain an infinity return for the examination of pre-trial proceedings, even from a cassation instance at the moment under the PPC, the court may return for violations in pre-trial proceedings. So in each of these files, we have a plan and we are reporting to the European Court of Human Rights. One of my first visits as Minister of Justice was in Strasbourg. There, clearly by the President of the Court of Human Rights and the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe was reported and expressed gratitude for Bulgaria's positive trend for reducing the number of cases. Thank you. I hope with joint efforts from 990 in 2014 that we will report even less and implement much of the pending precedent decisions. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u228	Thank you, dear Minister. To speak, the public representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will support the report, firstly, because it is objective; secondly, because there is very important information in it, which shows this progress, which Mrs Zaharieva has just highlighted. Naturally, we cannot ignore some points that we believe should be laid down in the second package on reforms of the judiciary. That is to say, we believe that this is mostly addressed to you, Mrs Zaharieva, that it is appropriate to include both lost cases and won cases in career attestations, because this is an attestation of well or poorly done work by the respective magistrate. However, we think that we should say some interesting things now, because 15 minutes of irrigation speech with extremely false claims I expected that you would react and that the first thing that should be known is that Bulgaria is a unilateral state and there are no ethnic minorities in it. In other words, the European Court of Justice is handling cases of complaints by Bulgarian citizens. There are no Roma, Turks, Armenians, all Bulgarian citizens and it is not right from this House to plant ethnic division in Bulgaria! There's no way we couldn't miss that. Of course, it would be right. But since you're probably tired of this lengthy debate on the previous Law, I don't get tired easily and I have to say the following. Is it okay, honourable Members, to tolerate and not to note that some of the lost cases are against people from marginal communities who, notice, for raping an 80-year-old woman, for robbing the 10 levs of the retirement pension of an elderly grandfather in Northwestern Bulgaria, because these are two of the cases, and because the police have implemented aids against these very affected and with violated rights citizens of marginal minorities, do we, see, now we need to amend the law on the Ministry of Interior?! Notice, someone has decided that the National Assembly has the right to amend and the Rules for Implementation of the Law................................................................................................ It is good to know too, because it is better to apply a stricter measure to such criminals who allow themselves to rape 80-year-olds than to act very compassionate! Here, of course, we must pay attention, Madam Minister, and to such pseudo-directive organisations that we suffer much more from! They are very vulnerable to the fact that the rapist's human rights have been violated, but they don't really notice the human rights violated by the raped elderly woman! This, too, should be noted when it comes to it. Finally, in order not to be very wordy, it is good to include the so-called "out-of-court agreements" in the attestations, because we need to take into account that the measures that have been taken and the reduction in the number of complaints are due to this good practice of solving problems outside-court. They are also a recognition of good or bad work. I hope you will accept our recommendations in the second package of the law on judicial reform and they will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u230	Any other speeches? Here's a line. [[Comments from GERB: There is no time.]] Increase the group's time. [[(Comments from GERB: He didn't ask for it!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u231	I want an extension of time, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague, we are not here to discuss who raped whom and who beat who, here we are discussing a report that has national and international importance, we are discussing facts that have been established by European institutions. Regarding the actions of the European Court of Human Rights, I would like to tell you that there, including, if you do not know, take and read a little, prepare yourself, not to go on the stand every three minutes on any subject without any justification, the European Court of Human Rights deals with cases including cases for discrimination and violation of human rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u232	Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll respond in a different way with two sentences. Colleagues, it would be very interesting if we had looked at this report after the Administrative Report on Roma Integration. It would have been very interesting to answer some gentlemen whether they constitute and represent Roma marginal communities as Roma leaders. It would have been very interesting! And then to ask how you would answer me, dearly prepared "626 pages" is the report without the apps. Thank you. Read it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u234	There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a draft decision on the Annual Report of the Minister of Justice on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in a case against the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. Your project was presented by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 2. The decision to adopt the Annual Report has been adopted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 1 April 2016, Friday 9:00 p.m. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer four questions from the people Nikolay Alexandrov and Atanas Zafirov; Krasimir Karakachanov; Mariana Todorova; and Nikolay Alexandrov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer four questions from the MPs Kalina Balabanova; Velizar Enchev; Stanislav Stanilov; and Valentin Pavlov. 3. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer three questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov; Martin Dimitrov; and Georgi Kadiev. 4. The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer 6 questions from the MPs Slavi Binev two questions; Georgi Kadiev; Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov, Petar Slavov and Methodi Andreev; Velizar Enchev; and Willi Lilkov and two questions from the MPs Rumen Gechev and Cornelia Nino; and from Slavi Binev. 5. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nanchev will answer five questions from the MPs Vili Lilkov; Tasco Ermenkov; Atanas Zafirov; Ivan Valkov; and Antony Trenchev and one question from the National Representative Tasko Ermenkov. 6. The Minister of Justice Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Metodi Andreyev; and Willi Lilkov. 7. The Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva will answer six questions from the MPs Nastimir Ananiev; Atanas Stoyanov; Vili Lilkov; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Boris Yachev; and Manol Genov. 8. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva will answer three questions from the MPs Manol Genov; Dora Yankova; and Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. 9. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer seven questions from the MPs Iskren Veselinov; Durhan Mustafa; Dragomir Stoinev and Georgi Gokov; Hasan Ademov; Milen Mihov; Emil Raynov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a question from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Atanasov and to a question from the MPs Rumen Yonchev and Yavor Haytov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva at one request from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov; and Zhelyo Boychev and Georgi Svilenski; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to five questions with a written answer from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev two questions; Atanas Stoyanov; Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, and Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture and Foods Desislava Taneva to two questions from the MPs Filip Popov and Dimitar Delchev and two questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev, and two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev, and Silvia Hubenova; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov to a question from the National Representative Slavi Binev, and to five questions with written answer from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov; and Valentin Pavlov 4 questions. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the National Representative Ivan Stankov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov, Culture Minister Vecdi Rashidov and Tourism Minister Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Due to a prior commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate. Due to an international commitment in advance, the Minister of Health Petar Moskov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. We have exhausted today's agenda in time scheduled for a parliamentary meeting, which is why I am closing it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-31.u235	Tomorrow's session starts at 9:00 with parliamentary control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
