ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, today we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE ADVISION OF THE LAW ON THE LEGAL PERSONS WITH A UNSTAPAN ADVANTAGE On the day yesterday, the name of the bill was reported, and § 1. We are currently in a debate on § 2 on amendments to art. 4 of the Law. Yesterday, proposals were made for editing in art. 4. In the lines to Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposals in full they were supported by Mrs. Stoyanova and Mrs. Kirilov. I'm looking in the room for Mr. Kirilov. I can't see him. I have been informed that they have been specified until a consensual version of § 2. We continue with the report as a procedural proposal, and I will put it to the vote to postpone the debate and debate under § 2. Let's move on to the next paragraphs. We're waiting in the hall for Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the proposal to postpone the debate on § 2 on the amendments to art. 4 of the Law. They voted 133 MPs: 132, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 3. [[The President of the Legal Commission Mr. Kirilov enters the Chamber.]] We've been waiting for you, Mr. Kirilov. One second late, and here's what's going on. We've postponed an entire paragraph. Are we ready for § 2 for the editing of the amendment of art. Four?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u3	Now procedurally, I suggest we proceed with paragraph...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u4	We continue with § 3 and return to § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u5	Let's continue with § 3. When Mr. Kirilov says, we return to the delayed text. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Paragraph 3? a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 3 to be amended as follows: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 is finally added by its announcement in the register led by the Registry Agency to the Minister of Justice. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u7	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 136 MPs: 28, against 63, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on § 3 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u8	Paragraph 4? a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 4 concerning art. 7. 1. In para. 4 after the word "spoken" to be added. 2. In para. 5 after the word "Supplied" to be added "Supplied." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Velizar Enchev: In § 4............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The name of a non-profit corporate entity shall be added to the name of a non-profit corporate entity where the same is the representation or branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7th para. 4 After a non-profit corporate body has been entered in the register of non-profit legal entities led by the Registry Agency, no other non-profit legal entity may be entered in the register of non-profit entities under the same name. (5) The non-profit legal person registered in the register, led by the Registry Agency, a non-profit legal person may bring an action against any other non-profit legal person who has adopted a later name matching his or her name to suspend his or her use, as well as a claim for compensation for the damage caused by that damage.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u9	Statements, coworkers? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u10	To repeat my proposal one more time: To the name of a non-profit corporate entity, where the same is a representation or branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity, the name of the foreign foreign agent is added. Dear colleagues, it is time from this platform to say a heretic truth that in our country foreign NGOs create parties, influence the Bulgarian media and essentially determine the outcome of parliamentary, presidential and any other elections, and support the ruling party, whoever it is. I therefore propose the adoption of a regulation for the registration of foreign agents, which is essentially a copy of the Regulation for the registration of foreign agents in the United States of America. It has been in force since 1938 and contains a definition and how these non-governmental organisations are financed from abroad and essentially create public opinion for the benefit of foreign governments. There are a number of foreign NGOs in Bulgaria who take money to promote foreign interests and influence public attitudes, using Bulgarian citizens who are very well paid for this purpose. These people, even they are not hiding, are financed from abroad to form a public opinion for the benefit of these foreign organizations, and if the country is foreign, it has different interests from ours. With the introduction of American practice, if you accept this proposal of mine, these NGOs will legally register as agents of a foreign country. I don't believe you in the right and middle of the room have anything against the American model for foreign agents. The American regulation can be transferred to Bulgaria, as there will be no collision with our legislation. And to be specific, in my remaining time I will give concrete facts to convince you, especially the left side of the room, which hardly needs convincing, as I suppose they think like me, who are the foundations, NGOs, which directly influence the political process in Bulgaria. The Hans Seidel Foundation and the Friedrich Naumann Foundation are the two foundations which I am not saying indirectly directly, directly support the ruling GERB party [[noise and lines]] and took part in its creation. They also participated and are the biggest sponsors of the Bulgarian citizens of Ms. Meglena Kuneva. This Foundation was a sponsor of the Bulgarian Ministry of Interior in 2011 and on this occasion I would like to remind you of something very important, as it is an unacceptable conflict of interest................................................................................ Isn't that a conflict of interest? Shouldn't we, if we want to apply the American model, call these two German assets foreign agents? There's nothing wrong with that! In this sense, fellow Members...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u11	Is he a presidential candidate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u12	I hear a line that my speech was part of my campaign, but I would like to stress that this was tabled on 11 March this year. On 11 March this year, it was submitted when it was not a presidential, parliamentary and other campaign. I am defending a principled position which, honourable Members, is extremely important because foreign NGOs cannot influence the political process in Bulgaria and, I stress this once again, for the benefit of the ruling party, whoever it is. However, since in the last seven years he has managed only one party and only one right-wing coalition, obviously these two institutions,...Fridrich Naumann and Hans Seidel, must be registered as foreign agents. In recent weeks, when the election campaign has already started, or at least unofficially a GERB party has started, we see that Mr. Prime Minister Borisov, Mr. Tsvetanov are in a meeting with the youth organization of GERB and behind them is the name of this Foundation. What is wrong with knowing that this Foundation is a foreign agent who defends foreign interests and, of course, these interests are passed with the consent of the ruling party. And to be more convincing, I'll give you Israel's experience. Israel's experience with non-governmental organisations is a law recently passed by this country's parliament and refers to non-governmental organisations that accept financial assistance from foreign countries. To this end, the Israeli State fully illuminates those non-governmental organisations that finance civil associations and parties in Israel, and Israeli citizens know very well who they vote for and for whom they should vote if they want to vote for a party, for an organisation that is independent of external influences. This law of Israel obliges non-governmental organisations, it is a very interesting practice, but it will be obviously another proposal from me that NGOs that receive more than half of their finances from abroad should declare this in the institution of Israel concerned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention and I hope you will vote on your conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u13	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Mr. Tsvetanov, you want a personal explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Enchev! Because you mentioned me by name, just to tell you that the Association of Citizens for European Development of Bulgaria is registered under the Bulgarian legislation. Every year, at the end of May, we must report to the Ministry of Justice, where absolutely all the activities and activities that have been carried out are taken into account, specifically with the relevant foundations or NGOs. So your speaking, referring to my name, is untenable and I can remind my fellow Members that in the period when they carried out even my tax checks in the period 2013 - 2014 it came to the paradox to block the account of the Foundation.Hans Seidel...................................................................................................... and has been made the Foundation the Foundation the Foundation Foundation...................................... I don't want to fall into any other populist action that has been taken. I can tell you that for Bulgaria and for each political force it is very important to have partners, representatives from other European developed countries. I can tell you that colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria are also part of their political family in the PES and also have the opportunity through their non-governmental organizations and foundations of countries in Europe to have joint events. And there's nothing wrong with that. After all, we are walking towards a democracy and we all have to comply with that. And there is Bulgarian legislation that is respected, and in this direction I think that your accusation, which you have made here from the parliamentary tribune, is completely untenable. Let us respect the foundations that have the opportunity to support democratic processes in the country [[the President signals that time has run out]] and speak on certain sectoral policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u15	Other Members of the National Assembly for participation in the deliberations under § 4? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 120 MPs: 24, against 65, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We vote on Mr. Enchev's proposal. The Commission does not support it. They voted 120 MPs: 19 against 80, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 4 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: for 104, against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing to reopen the debate on the procrastinations § 2. In the event that this proposal of mine is accepted, I ask for a statement to propose a final version to consolidate possible support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u17	Colleagues, we do not have a deliberate practice at what point to go back to a deferred text, so I accept the Commission President's proposal as correct. I remind you that we are in the mode of debate under § 2 on the amendments to art. 4 of the Law. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Kirilov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u18	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, the debate on § 2 met quite different opinions. The importer, respectively, the committees which discussed the texts under § 2, propose a new model, which we hope will support the development of non-profit legal entities by giving them a new commitment to participation in the Civil Society Development Council, which is also new, which is established by para. 3 of the proposed text, largely representing an institute which delegates, provides self-management to civil society entities with regard to the minimum financial resource that the State provides to support their activities. I stress, personally, that it is not the job of the state to provide, to continue to provide financial resources to non-profit legal entities. After 25 years of development, the civil sector should have sufficient tools to provide the necessary, including financial support, for the relevant initiatives. This may be the counterpoint of the good, of the useful, of the promising in this proposal that we let non-profit legal entities still be attached to the state in one way or another and thus be almost institutionalized. Once again, our view is that non-profit legal entities must emancipate, they must earn their place in civil society. After the discussions yesterday and with the participation of colleagues who expressed different opinions, I also refer to the Vice-President of the Assembly Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, we discussed editorial amendments in the text in the following sense: Regarding the text on para. 8 at the end, the words of the Council of Ministers "to be replaced by the words "by the state budget." In relation to para. 9 I propose the text of para. 9 to be in the following form: The evaluation of the projects and the proposal for the allocation of the funds under para. 8 shall be carried out by criteria, conditions, rules and procedures adopted by the Council under para. 3, which makes a proposal to the Council of Ministers. With regard to the text of para. 11 we are proposing that the text get the following version:.................................................................................................... 3 shall not receive remuneration for their participation as they and the organisations they represent and the persons associated with them shall not be eligible for funding projects. I remind you that before the beginning of the discussions I made an editorial proposal for technical editing where before the name of art. 4 to record the exact definition: 4 is amended as follows: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any lines to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. Mr. Popov, do you support your proposal for para. 3 after the consensus reached on the editing? You withdraw the offer under para. 3. Mr. Stoilov, do I understand that you also agree with the generalized proposals as Mr. Kirilov made them? Yeah. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 120 MPs: 17 against 71, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 109 MPs: 12, against 59, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the proposal for amendment of § 2 and amendments with it art. 4 by the Commission. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's consensus proposal, which largely reproduces Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's proposal for editing para. 8, para. 9th para. 11. We are voting on the proposals for editing made by Mr. Kirilov. They voted 106 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission, in line with the amendments which have just been adopted in three paragraphs. Vote 108 MPs: 92, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u20	By § 5, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u21	Statements? I won't. We vote § 5. Voted 103 MPs: 92, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u22	According to § 6 there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs in § 6 concerning art. 13, para. 4 the word "supplied' is replaced by "declared'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 2 shall be added at the end in the cases referred to in Article 2. 44a, para. 4 after notification by the Agency of the entries. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 2 the court appoints a liquidator and sends the decision to terminate the Registry Agency, which shall enter the termination in the register of non-profit legal entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u23	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 98 MPs: 11 against 63, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting § 6 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u24	By § 7, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u25	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 7 fully supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u26	Vote 95 MPs: 87, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u27	According to § 8 there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs in § 8 concerning art. 16 the words "deleting of the entry of a non-profit corporate body from the' shall be replaced by "deleting of the registration of the non-profit corporate body', and the deletion shall be declared in the'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the words "the county court of the seat of the non-profit corporate body' shall be replaced by the register of non-profit corporate bodies led by the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u28	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 13, against 62, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission editing the text for § 8. Vote 100 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u29	Under § 9 there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: supposed to be as follows: § 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. So far, text becomes para. 1. 3. The creation of para. 2: A register of non-profit legal entities shall be kept at the Registry Agency of the Minister of Justice, which shall declare all circumstances recorded by the courts concerning non-profit legal entities, their annual financial statements and the report under art. 40, para. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u30	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 110 MPs: 18, against 63, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 9. They voted 107 MPs: 96, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u31	Under § 10, there is a proposal from Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 10 concerning art. 18: 1. In para. 1 text before t. 1 to be amended as follows: The following circumstances shall be subject to entry and announcement in the register to the Registry Agency: 2. Alinea 2 to be amended as follows: The following documents shall be submitted by the courts to the Registry Agency at the official notice of the register: 1. the decision to establish the non-profit legal person; 2. the statutes of the associations, respectively the constituent act of the foundations; 3. decisions on changes in circumstances subject to entry. 3. Alinea 3 to be amended as follows: On a notice in the register to the Registry Agency, the financial statements of the non-profit legal entity as well as the activity report under art. 40, para. 2 for those designated for carrying out public service activities. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 to become respectively para. 4 and 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u32	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 102 MPs: 19 against 60, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 10, supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 91, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Procedure Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is the 70th anniversary of the referendum on Bulgaria's declaration of republic. I believe that this date is extremely significant in view of the development of Bulgarian statehood in the 20th century. Today we stand up for the principles of republicanism through the institution we represent, and I believe that we are all convinced that the republican structure of the state is a guarantee of the freedoms and rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u34	The procedure, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u35	I propose that the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television and the declaration be included on the Bulgarian National Radio in relation to the declaration to be presented by our parliamentary group. I'm doing a procedure to turn on the cameras and other information resources of the national media...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u36	...possibly for the declaration that you will request to be presented in a moment. Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u37	You're too small! They'll laugh at you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u38	110 MPs voted: 30, 44, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. [[The National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva wants the floor for revoting. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov also wants the floor to be re-voted and goes to the stands.]] The lady first asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u39	But I got to the stands first.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u40	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u41	Dear colleagues, this is about the form of a state device that we are all here to do. This is about the Bulgarian Republic. I see no reason to have concerns in terms of a declaration which should remind the Bulgarian voters the roots of Bulgarian republicanism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u43	I'm making a motion to re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u44	Here you are, Mrs. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am also doing a re-voting procedure to enable BSP to gather, as they are 19 people, and we from GERB are 67. When you want a re-vote or when you want a vote on something, at least get the quorum, which is 39 people, so you can support something. We don't mind. We'll listen to the declaration, but there's no point in putting on a TV broadcast, because the election campaign hasn't started yet. After all, gather your men to have a quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u46	Either way, we all want a re-vote. Please re-vote the proposal to turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television in the possible next declaration to be read by the BSP group. Vote 112 MPs: 31, against 64, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. The People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u47	There were 19 of them, and now there are 18 of them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that Parliament should hardly act as a shutter for itself and not for Bulgarian citizens. We even expect you to express your attitude about this important event. 70 years ago on today's date, Bulgarian citizens voted for Bulgaria to be declared a republic, to convene a Grand National Assembly and to develop a new Constitution. You can compare the importance of the issue with some of those to be answered by Bulgarian citizens in November. The inquiry was carried out under a special law adopted a few months ago. The number of participants in the referendum is an impressive over 91% of those who have the right to vote. The vast majority over 95% is pronounced in favour of the republic, and only about 4% for the preservation of the monarchy. In recent years, political and legal objections have been raised in an attempt to challenge this result and belittle it. The fact is that the Allied Control Commission was acting in the country at the time. Bulgaria is already in the orbit of the Soviet Union, which respects even its allies in the war with the power of the Red Army. The opposition is under strong pressure, which does not run out of political means. However, until the signing of the Paris Peace Treaty, Bulgaria must be aware of compliance with certain democratic standards. To confirm this are the elections held in the autumn of 1946 for the Grand National Assembly, in which the opposition won about 30% of the seats in parliament. It is pointed out that the Tarnovo Constitution does not foresee a referendum as a form for changing the state structure. This is a fact, but objectivity requires us to recall that the provisions of this Constitution have been violated even in determining the Regent Council after the death of King Boris. In addition, only the monarch can convene the Grand National Assembly to change the Constitution. Hardly anyone expected to wait for about 10 years so that the adult king could convene a Grand National Assembly for his own dethronement. It is true that the country's homeland government is declared to restore the suspended Tarnovo Constitution, but also history shows that there is hardly a possible radical socio-economic and political change within the existing legal order. During this period in post-war Europe dominated the idea of popular sovereignty, which justified the abolition of monarchy in a number of countries. The mass public support for the establishment of Republican government is expressed in the then public sentiment. For example, two big rallys took place in Sofia in August and in early September, involving over 200,000 people, in Plovdiv about 100 thousand, in Varna about 60 thousand. Most parties without or with appointments are declared to abolish the monarchy and establish a republic. Not only communists, but BZNS (Nikola Petkov), and BRSD (unified) are for the People's Republic. Even centrist parties, such as the Democratic and Radical, are for the Tarnovo Constitution, but without monarchy. The words of the leader of the then opposition Nikola Petkov are significant, I quote: The referendum for a republic was held in full freedom because the whole people were unanimous about the abolition of the monarchic regime, which brought only misfortunes and catastrophes to Bulgaria. The establishment of a republic in Bulgaria is part of a pan-European process, especially in countries that suffered severe damage in the war, in which political elites are strongly discredited and rejected. The leadership of the Communist Party in Bulgaria is trying to find its way to socialism. So it doesn't literally copy the Soviet device, but it tries to create a people's democracy despite the tautology of the term. However, the notion of democracy is so multilayered and so much abused that it often has to be accompanied by complementary definitions. The Republic, like any other form of government, has its historical evolution. The idea of the Republican device in Bulgaria was initially shared by the most progressive part of the national liberation movement. It finds a synthesized expression in the ideal of Levski for freedom and pure republic. The Monarchical form of government after Liberation is predestined by the Great Powers and supported by the bourgeois parties in Bulgaria. Unlike them, Bulgarian socialists throughout their history are Republicans. Agricultural leader Alexander Stamboliyski is considering a project for a republican Constitution. But it was only after 9 September 1944 that the rejection of the monarchy and the establishment of a republic became possible. We can say that the historical trend is from monarchy to republic. But this trend is also contradictory. In our country, the ban on parties in the last years of the monarchy is quickly replaced by the actual one-party republican power. A certificate of attachment to the republican idea is the 16 constitutional projects submitted to the Seventh Grand National Assembly, none of which foresees a return to the monarchy. Thus, in 1991 the existing Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria was established. The first Bulgarian republic will be remembered by the power of the Communist Party and the dominance of its ideology, with the so-called dictatorship of the proletarian, with state borders that are difficult to cross in the West in both directions, with fewer but guaranteed options for choice. Young generations have not seen, but they need to know that during the People's Republic a significant industry has been built, modern agriculture. Bulgaria achieves high results in the field of education, culture and sport, comprehensive health and social security, unattainable and perhaps unattainable in the foreseeable future demographic growth of the Bulgarian nation. The positive and negative sides of this form of state structure create many supporters, a little obvious and, as it turned out later, more hidden opponents. Today, empathy with the common good, with what we call res publica, is critically diminishing. The indifference, the lack of perspective and the incompetence of many of the people are a threat to the republic and a retreat to oligarchy, globalism and the unparalleled social polarization in our new history. In our time, regardless of the form of government, democracy is being tested in Bulgaria and in many countries around the world. The crisis of political representation, in particular political parties, is a challenge to the parliamentary republic. The question is: will it really be a republic of the people and for the people, or will it serve and conceal the power of few who, in the name of their own interests, are willing to retreat from national interests? Therefore, sincere advocacy for parliamentary governance implies restoring confidence in political parties, opposition to privileges, against any authoritarian and uncontrolled power. In the upcoming presidential elections, candidates and their supporting parties must clearly state their attitude towards parliamentary governance, towards the development of Bulgaria as a democratic, rule of law and social state, towards the role of Bulgaria in the European Union and the modern world. To make clear their positions on the acute current issues of migration, energy security, the projects under discussion for trade agreements and other important countries of national development and national security. To make specific commitments to the Bulgarian citizens. The modern Republican command is for sovereign, fair and prosperous Bulgaria. Long live Republican Bulgaria! [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. We continue with § 11 of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u50	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u51	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 to 15 including, fully supported by the Commission. Stop the vote. Name check. Please, the lists. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - here Angel Petrov Naydenov - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - here Boris Borisov Stanimirov - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - absent Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - absent Valentin Ivanov Radev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - absent Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Velizar Penkov Enchev - here Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danylov Georgiev - absent Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - absent Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - here Dimitar Andreev Delchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - here Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - absent Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - absent Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova- here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov- here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - absent Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - absent Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - absent Korman Yakubov Ismailov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - absent Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - here Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Method Borisov Andreev - here Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - absent Mikhail Parashkev Todorov- here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - here Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - absent Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Ivanov Petrov - here Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - here Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov - here Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - absent Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - absent Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov - here Semir Hussain Abu Melih - here Sylvia Anastasova Hubenova - here Slavi Penchev Binev - here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - here Stanislav Georgiev Ivanov - here Stanislav Dimitrov Anastasov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stefan Georgiev Kenov - absent Stefan Ivanov Dedev - here Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Stynov Zhelev - here Stephanie Mihneva Mihailova - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - here Sultanka Dimitrova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Tuncher Mehmedov Kardzhaliev - here Ferryhan Ilyazova Ahmedova - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov here. There's a quorum. Additional entry at the time of the call was not in the hall: Ayhan Etem, Ahmed Ahmedov, Alexander Nenkov, Atanas Merdjanov, Borislav Milanov, Valentin Nikolov, Georg Georgiev, Antony Trenchev, Dimitar Delchev, Durhan Mustafa, Krasen Krastev, Nayden Zelenogorski, Manol Genov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 11 to 15 including by importer, fully supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 94, against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u52	Under § 16 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 16 concerning art. 37: 1. in t. 1, para. 2, the 2. Point 2 to be reported. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u53	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. They voted 99 MPs: 13 against 56, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We vote § 16 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 87, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u54	Under § 17 there is a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 para. 1 is amended as 1. A new item is created. 5. It's five o'clock. The financing of any kind of political activity by non-profit legal entities shall be prohibited; 2. point 5 becomes t. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u55	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! I propose to ban the funding of any kind of political activity by non-profit legal entities and to make it more understandable to viewers of the so-called NGOs, as you know that a Bulgarian television broadcasts this live and all people are watching carefully, but for many people it is unclear as a concept to be honest. Why would I suggest that? " From a point of view, to be in harmony with art. 24 of the Law on Political Parties, which states that political parties cannot receive funds from foreign governments or from foreign state enterprises, foreign organisations for an ideal purpose. Since the Law on Political Parties prohibits the financing of parties and their political activities, I ask myself: in what logic will we allow NGOs to finance political activity? Therefore, it seems to me that my proposal is in full harmony with the legislation of many European countries, and I will not even list them. Most prohibit non-governmental organisations from financing political activity. In our country, however, the abnormal is considered normal, and my talk is considered to be some kind of exotic, and that is the weirdest thing. Now, to be convincing, as I like to say, I will tell you that in Bulgaria, as statistics so far, there is a common registered one, another is the question of how many of them are operating, more than 34 thousand. NGOs, like 50 of them, have goals related to democracy, civil society, the protection of human rights and values, and so on and so forth. Twenty of them have mostly external funding. Who are they? It is now time for this tribune to say which is the largest non-governmental organization that funds in Bulgaria Now I will say something that will not be reflected by any parliamentary reporter, because most televisions, air, cable and others, many leading people, this is officially known and no one denies it, receive grants or subsidies from non-governmental organizations. Dear parliamentary reporters, who will not now reflect any of my words on this issue, as you should not affect your colleagues in these televisions and newspapers, or your employers, you should know that this is not only immoral, but could enter a Coliseum with art. 24 of the Law on Political Parties and should enter. I therefore call on the Members of the National Assembly, who may tomorrow fall under the blows of such paid propaganda by such journalists, to vote on this text of mine. It is entirely for the benefit of all political parties in and outside the parliament. "America for Bulgaria" gave from the period 1990 to 2007. This is an official reference, which I have taken from the website of America for Bulgaria, more than 200 million. The dollar. Over 200 million. The dollar, honourable Members, mainly for political activity, for the creation of political parties, I spoke just now about creating a negative campaign and an image of other political forces. A moment ago Mr. Tsvetanov took the floor as a personal explanation of my respect for him, but I ask myself, on what basis did the "Zidel" Foundation finance, Mr. Tsvetanov, the Youth Organization of Party GERB? This is not hidden, and the youth organization of Party GERB is developing political activity. A very good remark was made to me by Mr. Bojinov a moment ago, "Hans Seidel" is a government organization in which the German Chancellor Angela Merkel is in charge. I know that this will not be reflected in any Bulgarian newspaper and in any Bulgarian television. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I will say again: they have been paid, most of them, by these NGOs. Mr. Tsvetanov, it is nice that you should now take the floor and say if you will support this text and thus, Mr. Tsvetanov, you will dispel the doubt that the political activity of the party GERB pays off. There is nothing wrong with parties having their youth organisations, but why should non-governmental organizations of foreign countries with government participation finance such activities? I hope for your reaction as a personal explanation, and as an opinion, as a statement, best as a speech, so that I can take the floor as a reply to do me this service will be very grateful to you. [[Comment from GERB: Come sit down!]] No, ma'am, I will not sit down because what I am saying is in favor of the civil society in Bulgaria, not the political and oligarchic elites. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your lines. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u57	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I won't. Personal explanations? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ismailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What I think about the text is that these foundations cannot engage and do not engage in political activity directly because political activity involves participation in elections. [[Reply from MP Tsvetomir Mihov.]] However, they have no problem forming or defending certain values that are both in politics and in public life, tolerance, democracy, freedom, liberalism, if you will, and so on. That's not forbidden. Parties that develop similar values form political beliefs and participate in elections can benefit from donors who finance similar trainings, if you will political, organizational and so on. That's how it happens. In the whole world, there's this thing. Already, to what extent this is any external intervention, influence, control over certain parties, interference in internal affairs, this may be a matter of debate and some regulation, but I do not see in this case any adequacy of these claims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov. The line, Mr. Enchev. Please, to the substance of Mr. Ismailov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ismailov, for your line, as you are giving me the opportunity to say something that I have never been able to say before. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You are absolutely right, you should be supporting non-governmental organizations, different movements, but not those involved in political activity, as this is how political work is done. I'm giving you an example. The party, the Pomashka Ethnos project of Evgenia Ivanova and the Pomak Institute, was fully funded by the Friedrich Nauman Foundation. That's what you should be talking about. This party is not formally engaged in political activity, but tried to be politically active and, thank God, the Bulgarian judiciary and institutions intervened. So you are formally right, Mr. Ismailov, but when we talk about the substance, we will see that NGOs have an impact on the media and political parties directly and indirectly. As for the financing of the youth organization of GERB party, this is a public secret. You saw, I said in my previous speech, on the back of Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, on the back of Mr. Borisov, on these forums is seen with huge letters the logo of this Foundation. Is this not paid political propaganda and, I would say, paid political lobbying by a foreign foundation with state participation, again, with the participation of Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany Angela Merkel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u61	Thank you. Would you like a douche? No. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Velizar Enchev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 13 against 66 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 17. Vote 89 MPs: 80 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u62	Paragraph 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u63	Statements? I won't. My fellow Members, I am voting on the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 18. 90 MPs voted: 83 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u64	Paragraph 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u65	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a text proposed by the importer and supported by the Commission for § 19. They voted 86 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u66	Paragraph 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41, para. 2 words under the announced order and the rules for the implementation of the activity and sentence two are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u67	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote a text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 20. Vote 85 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u68	Paragraph 21 "A proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: To be amended as follows: .................................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 44a, 44b and 44c: "Stop status in public benefit" Art. 44a. (1) The account of the non-profit corporate body for carrying out a public utility activity shall include a service with a suspended status for public benefit and where, within two consecutive years, the documents referred to in art. 40, para. 3 and where, in two consecutive years, the annual report of the activity stated by him does not meet the requirements of art. 40, para. 2. (2) In the cases under para. 1 prior to carrying out the entry, the Registry Agency shall send a written notification to the non-profit legal person for carrying out a public utility activity within which it shall set an additional period of not less than 1 month for the submission of the information after which, if not submitted, the change shall be entered in its account. (3) The entry under para. 1 and 2 shall not exempt the non-profit legal person and the members of its management bodies from their obligations and liability under this law. (4) The legal person with the stated circumstance under para. 1 shall continue to spend its property for the activities specified in the statutes or in its instrument of incorporation and subject to the provisions of art. 38-44. Restoration of status to the public benefit Art. 44b. The non-profit entity for carrying out a socially useful activity on whose account is entered the fact of art. 44a, restore the status when submitting the documents referred to in Article 44a. 40, para. 3. Appeal Art. 44c. (1) The acts and actions of the Registry Agency under art. 44a, para. 1 shall be subject to appeal before the district court at the headquarters of the non-profit legal person. (2) In the event of cancellation under para. 1, the restoration of the status shall be carried out in a professional capacity. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21: .................................................................. In Chapter 3, Section I is created art. 44a, 44b and 44c: supposed suspension of public benefit status Art. 44a. (1) The account of the non-profit corporate body for carrying out a public service activity shall include a service with a temporary suspended status for public benefit, where two years in a row he has not declared for a declaration within the time limit of the documents referred to in art. 40, para. 3. (2) In the cases under para. 1 Before carrying out the entry with a suspended public benefit status, the Registry Agency shall send a written notification to the non-profit legal person for carrying out a public utility activity within which it shall set an additional period of not less than one month for the submission of the information and, if not submitted within that period, the change shall be entered under its account. (3) The entry under para. 1 and 2 shall not exempt the non-profit legal person and the members of its management bodies from liability and liability under this law. (4) The systematic failure of the obligations under para. 1 is grounds for termination of the legal person in accordance with Art. 1. 13, para. 1, t. 3 (b). (5) The non-profit legal person with a stated circumstance under para. 1 may continue to spend its property for the activities specified in the statutes or in its constituent act, insofar as they do not conflict with the provisions of art. It's 38. It's 44. Restoration of status to the public benefit Art. 44b. The non-profit entity for carrying out a socially useful activity on whose account is entered the fact of art. 44a, para. 1 may request a refund of the status after suspension of the ground for suspension. Appeal Art. 44c. (1) The Act of the Registry Agency under art. 44a, para. 1 and the refusal to restore the status under art. 44b shall be subject to appeal before the district court at the headquarters of the non-profit legal person under art. 25 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. (2) If the act under para. 1 is cancelled, the status refund is carried out in a professional capacity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u69	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 10, against 55, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote, honourable Members, the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 21. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u70	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u71	Statements? I won't. Please, voting mode. Vote 78 MPs: 74, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u72	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u73	Statements? I won't. Please, voting mode. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u74	Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Boyka Marinska, Snezhana Dukova and Milena Damyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: Within three months of the entry into force of this Law, the Council of Ministers shall adopt rules on the organisation and activities of the Civil Society Development Council. (2) Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Law, the Council for the Development of Civil Society shall adopt rules on qualifying activities of public importance for funding, the conditions, arrangements and mechanisms for spending the funds, conditions, arrangements and arrangements for the recruitment, evaluation and selection of project proposals, the requirements for the implementation of the activities and the reporting of the approved projects, the conditions and arrangements for monitoring the implementation of the projects financed by the funds under art. 4, para. 8. (3) The funds referred to in art. 4, para. 8 are planned under the budget of the Council of Ministers with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u75	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! After we adopted an editorial amendment to the text of art. 4, para. 8, where the budget of the Council of Ministers replaced it with the state budget, in the text of para. 3 I suggest that the words should be dropped by the budget of the Council of Ministers and by the text of para. 3 Let it be: "The funds under art. 4, para. 8 are planned with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. Dear colleagues, I first put to the vote the proposed editorial amendment by the National Representative Danail Kirilov in para. 3, as it was read just now. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 23 together with the newly approved editorial amendment. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. It's unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u78	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u79	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. Voting regime of the importer's text for § 24, supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u80	Paragraph 24. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova: In § 1. In para. 1 the words "31 December 2018" shall be replaced by "31 December 2019." 2. In para. 2 the words "31 December 2015" shall be replaced by "31 December 2016" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 24: 1. Alinea 1 to be amended as follows: The circumstances and documents concerning non-profit legal entities entered in the register of non-profit legal entities in the district courts shall be declared in accordance with that law by 31 December 2018. The State re-registered fee shall not be due. 2. Allinea two, drop out. 3. In para. The 3th sentence first to be amended as follows: "The Announcement under para. 1 shall be carried out on the basis of an entry into force of a judicial authority or on the basis of an application by the person concerned where they are authorised by law to request entry, deletion or announcement in the register. 4. Alinea 4 to be amended as follows: The Court of Registry shall provide the Registry Agency with the certificates referred to in paragraph 4. 2 within three days of the request. 5. In para. 5 words. To be replaced by.............................................................................................................. The 6. Allinei 7 and 8 drop out. 7. In para. 9 the word "reclaiming" to be replaced by "announcement." 8. In para. 10 the word "prescription" shall be replaced by "announcement" under para. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: 9. In para. 13 words under para. For the purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply: 2 " and the word "the registration" to be replaced by "the seat of the organization." 10. Alinea 14 to be amended as follows: The Court of Justice of the European Union shall, on the basis of a request from a person under art, remove the errors and incompleteness admitted by the court of registration in the case of entries or notices in the case of the non-profit legal person. 15, para. 1 of the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, indicating the error or incompleteness made and presenting relevant documents justifying its removal. The Court of Registry shall remove the errors and incompletes and issue a new certificate under para. 2. The State Certificate issue fee is not due in this case. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss (1) Non-profit legal persons registered in the register of non-profit legal entities in the district courts shall be obliged to apply for re-registered under this law by 31 December 2020. State re-registered fee shall not be due. (2) The registration under para. 1 shall be carried out by entering into the register of non-profit legal entities of the Agency of Registrys of the non-profit legal person and of the relevant circumstances thereof on the basis of an application and a certificate of the current status of its registration, in which the court indicates the BULSTAT code of the legal person, respectively the branch of the non-profit foreign legal person issued after the date of entry into force of the law and contains full details of the current recorded circumstances. In the case of pending proceedings under entries under para. 11, a certificate shall be issued after the registration by the court. The associations or foundations shall present the current instrument of incorporation or statutes established by the court of registration or by their legal representative entered in the court. (3) The re-certification under para. 1 shall also be carried out on the basis of an act of a judicial or other public authority and of a private judicial contractor or on the basis of an application by an interested party where they are authorised by law to request entry, deletion or announcement in the register. In that case, the Registry Agency shall request from the district court the registration of the non-profit legal person, respectively the branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity for which the listing, deletion or announcement is requested - the issuance of a certificate of the current state containing complete details of the current circumstances recorded, as well as a copy of the current founding act or statutes of the non-profit legal person, respectively the branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity. After the re-registered in that order of the non-profit legal person having branches, the Registry Agency shall immediately request the courts of the seat of each branch to issue the current status certificates of the branch and to provide the company cases for scanning documents relating to the entry of circumstances for the branch concerned. (4) The court of registration shall issue the certificates under para. 2 and 3 within three days of the request and immediately send them to the Registry Agency. State fee for one-off issuance of a certificate is not due. (5) In the cases under para. 2 and 3 the court shall immediately grant the Registry Agency access to remove the electronic image of the entire numbered company case. The removal of the electronic image shall be carried out jointly by an officer of the court and a representative of the Registry Agency. The Registry Officer shall certify by electronic signature the identity of the paper-based scanned documents of the company's electronic document case. Following the processing and introduction by the Registry Agency of an electronic copy of the company's case in the register of non-profit legal entities, the court archived the company's case. (6) Within the term under para. 1 references and certificates from documents on the basis of which the entries, deletions or announcements of reregistered non-profit legal entities, respectively branches of non-profit foreign legal entities have been made before re-registered shall be issued by the Registry Agency within 14 days of the request. (7) In the case of re-registered under para. 1 The non-profit entity shall be registered with its current name. (8) An application for re-certification may also be submitted for the entry of a new circumstance, deletion and announcement, except in the case of transformation under art. 12. For the entry of a circumstance or for the declaration of an act, the relevant State fee shall be due. (9) Following the re-certification of the non-profit legal person having branches, the Registry Agency shall without delay request the courts of the seat of each branch to issue up-to-date status certificates to the branch and to provide the company cases for scanning documents relating to the entry of circumstances for the branch concerned. (10) In the case of re-certification, non-profit legal entities and branches of non-profit foreign legal entities shall be excluded from the BULSTAT registry and the BULSTAT code becomes the identification code of the non-profit legal person, respectively, of its branch. (11) The registration proceedings initiated until the entry into force of this law shall be concluded by the court in the order so far. (12) Within the term under para. 1 The district courts shall ensure that everyone is entitled to review the registers of non-profit legal entities concerning non-reregistered non-profit legal entities and documents on the basis of which the entries were made and shall issue copies thereof, as well as current status certificates. (13) Until the re-registered under para. 2 and 3 and on request within the term under para. 1 the registration court shall issue an actual status certificate. (14) Mistakes and incompleteness admitted by the court of registration in the case of entries or notices in the case of the non-profit legal person prior to his registration shall be removed from the court of registration under this law on the basis of an application by a person under art. 15, para. 1 of the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities, indicating the error or incompleteness made and presenting relevant documents justifying its removal. The Court of Registry shall remove the errors and incompletes and issue a new certificate under para. 2. The State Certificate issue fee is not due in this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u81	Thank you. Speeches, honourable colleagues? Now that there are no volunteers, we move on to voting mode. Firstly, I am voting on a proposal from Mrs. Stoyanova and Mrs. Yordanova, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. They voted 82 MPs: 2 against 19, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We also vote on a proposal from Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 7, against 56, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on an importer's text edited by the Commission for § 25. We vote. Vote 81 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u82	Under Paragraph 25, a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 25, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 at the end to be added or terminated to the non-profit corporate body. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. Dear Mr. President, I would like to do a technical work in para. 4, in the sentence................................................................................................ In his place to become a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u83	And this is a technical amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u84	It's a technicality.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u85	Okay. Statements? I won't. Firstly, we are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Mr. Merdjanov and a group which the Commission does not support. They voted 76 MPs: 8 against 47, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on a text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for § 26, together with the technical version presented by Mrs Alexandrova. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u86	According to § 26 proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Lachezar Nikiforov: In § 26, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, 1 para. 2 of the Law on the Trade Register is amended as follows: This law does not apply to political parties and religions, as well as to trade unions. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 26 concerning the Commercial Register Act: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 8 (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 17 (c) (i) and (ii) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and on the Swiss Confederation's association with the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as amended by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the Functioning of the European Union, on the The orders and orders of the court in the course of the proceedings shall be made available in service to the register of the declaration. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: Article 18 - In Al. 1 the word "declared' shall be replaced by "declared'; - In Al. 2 after the word "subscription" to be added to "reporting." The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u87	Mrs. Alexandrova, since the text of § 26 I would say that it is huge and there is a risk that we will enter a lot of the holiday, I propose to announce a break and then immediately start reporting to the relevant paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u88	Holiday's at 11:30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u89	Okay, that's a good reminder. There will be time for you to read the paragraph, I hope, before the break. Continue reporting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u90	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In the Commercial Register Act (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. The title of the law is amended as follows: "The Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities" 2. Article 1 is amended as follows: Art. 1. (1) This law shall govern the registration, keeping, keeping and access to the trade register and to the register of non-profit legal entities, as well as the functioning of the entries, deletions and notices therein. (2) This law shall not apply to political parties and religions. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words The Trade Register is an electronic database and is replaced by the Trade Register and the register of non-profit legal entities is a common electronic database and after the word the Traders and the branches of foreign legal entities for non-profit purposes are added. (b) in para. 3 in a sentence, first, after the words "Foreign Trader', add "for a non-profit corporate entity' and a branch of a foreign corporate entity for a non-profit purpose', and in a sentence second, add "or for a non-profit corporate entity'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2a the words "Trade Registration" shall be replaced by "Registration" and after the words "Registration Register" shall be added and the register of non-profit corporate entities shall be added. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words the Trade Register shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities and the word "leaders" shall be replaced by "leader"; (b) in para. 2 after the words the Trade Register shall be added and the register of non-profit corporate entities shall be replaced by the word "Saved" shall be replaced by "Saved" and the word "Saved" shall be replaced by "Saved" shall be added; (c) in para. 3 after the words "foreign traders" "foreclosures" are added to the register of non-profit corporate entities and branches of foreign corporate entities for the purpose of doing business" and after the words "foreclosures" shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (d) in para. 4 after the words the register shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. 6. Article 4 is amended as follows: ? Subject to entry circumstances Art. 4. The commercial register and the register of non-profit legal entities shall include traders, branches of foreign traders, non-profit legal entities and branches of non-profit foreign legal entities and related circumstances for which it is provided by law that they are subject to entry. 7. Article 5 is amended as follows: supposed to the announcement of acts Art. 5. The commercial register and the register of non-profit legal entities shall state acts relating to traders, branches of foreign traders, non-profit legal entities and branches of non-profit foreign legal entities for which it is provided by law that they are subject to a declaration. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s) Each trader and any non-profit legal entity shall request to be entered in the trade register, respectively, in the register of non-profit legal entities, stating the circumstances to be entered and submitting the acts to be declared. (b) in para. 3 after the words the register shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. 9. In the title of art. 10 is finally added to the register of non-profit entities. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is replaced by the The Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities are public. Everyone has the right to free and free access to the database constituting the registers. (2) The Registry Agency shall provide registered access to the case of the trader or the non-profit legal person. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 after the words the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (bb) c. 4 after the word "supplier', the name "supplier' is added; (b) in para. 3 after the words the register shall be added to the register of the legal entity for the purpose of business. (c) in para. 4 in the sentence first and second after the words 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." data on the trader, on the branch of a foreign trader, on the European Union for economic interests, on the non-profit legal person and on the branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity in whose case an entry, deletion or declaration is sought; 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 1 after the word "trader', the name of the company for business purposes shall be added; (b) in para. 3 after the words the register is added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18, para. The second sentence after the word "trader" is a comma, added to the "supplier" for a non-profit purpose. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 the words "the trade repository' shall be replaced by "the registrations'; (b) in para. The third sentence is second after the words (c) in para. 4 after the words "in the case of the applicant', a comma shall be added to the claim of the non-profit-making legal person. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) c. 2 the register of non-profit corporate entities is added at the end; (b) point 7 is amended as follows: "7." another person has no right to the company or the name and they meet the requirements of art. 7, para. 2 of the Commercial Law in the case of initial registration or change of the company of a trader, respectively art. 7 of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, in the case of initial registration or change of the name of a non-profit corporate entity; 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 finally added to the register of non-profit entities. (b) in para. 3 after the words the register is added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (c) para. 5 is amended as follows: Where all documents required by law are not applied to the application for registration, deletion or announcement of the trader or the legal entity for non-profit purposes or where the state fee payable is not paid, the registration officer shall instruct the applicant to remedy the irregularity. The instructions shall be published on the trader's or non-profit legal person's electronic account and, where an application for registration of the trader or the non-profit legal person is submitted, on the Agency's website, no later than the following working day following the receipt of the application in the register. Where the applicant has indicated e-mail, the instructions shall also be sent to it within the period referred to in the second sentence. The applicant may comply with the instructions given and submit the relevant documents by means of an application according to a template defined by the ordinance under art. 31. The official shall declare a refusal if these instructions are not fulfilled by the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 19th para. 2. 18. Article 23 is amended as follows: Unique identification code Art. 23. (1) The Agency shall designate a single identification code, hereinafter referred to as the "LEI', which shall be binding on traders and their branches, branches of foreign traders, non-profit legal entities and their branches, branches of non-profit foreign legal entities entered in the register, as well as in the cases referred to in Chapter Two. (2) The way the EIC is formed for connection to the European platform shall be determined by an implementing act of the European Commission. (3) The Agency shall designate a personal identification code, called the PRICs, which shall be binding on other persons and entities for which it is provided by law that they are subject to entry in the register. (4) The identification code under para. 1 and 3 shall be determined at the initial entry in the register and shall remain unchanged until deletion. (5) The way to form the identification code under para. 4 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 4. 31. (6) If an identification code is indicated, the court, the public authorities, the local authorities and the local administration and the persons entrusted with the exercise of a public function, organisations providing public services, including banks, shall not require the proof of circumstances recorded in the trade register and in the register of non-profit legal entities and the presentation of acts announced in the trade register. The prohibition shall also apply to contracting entities under art. 5 of the Public Procurement Act, which is outside those listed in the first sentence. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 after the words "foreign trader', the non-profit company or the branch of a foreign corporate entity for a non-profit purpose' shall be added. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 sentence first, first, the register of non-profit corporate entities is added. 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 2 after the words "foreign trader', the branch of a foreign company for a non-profit purpose is added. 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. 2 after the word "salesman" shall be added to the body of the company for business purposes. 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 shall be added at the end to the register of non-profit entities. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 after the words the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (b) in para. 2 after the words the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (c) in para. 3 after the words the register shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. 25. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the register of non-profit corporate entities is added at the end; (b) A new para shall be created. 3: In the register of non-profit legal entities, references to non-profit legal entities may be made on: 1. the name or EIC of the non-profit corporate body or the branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity; 2. the name or CNN, respectively the company, the name or EIC of the founder, a member of the management body or the representative of the non-profit corporate body. c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: In the case of an individual trader, a branch of a foreign trader, a non-profit legal entity or a branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity and its successors may be consulted on any given circumstance or act. 26. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraphs 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The references and certificates may contain an extract from the registers or copies of the electronic image of the documents on the basis of which the entries, deletions or notices were made. References and certificates may not contain personal data which are not subject to entry or announcement. (2) Certificates shall also be issued as to the fact that, for a particular trader, a branch of a foreign trader, a non-profit legal entity or a branch of a non-profit foreign legal entity, a certain circumstance has not been entered. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: A copy of documents contained in the case of a separate trader or a non-profit legal entity certified by officials shall have the power of official copies. 27. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34, para. 3 is finally added to the register of non-profit entities. 28. The name of Chapter 4 is amended as follows: "Conservation of a company and name." 29. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in the title, the words "the name' shall be added at the end of the title; (b) in para. 1 after the word "Company" shall be added to the company or name of the company for business purposes. (c) in para. 2 the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities; (d) in para. 3 after the word "the firm" shall be added "or the name". 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. 1 sentence, first after the word "trader', is added to the entry into the relevant register under the same company or name and the text to the end is deleted. 31. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 after the word "Farms', the name shall be added and shall be irresistible and non-transmissible and the text shall be deleted to the end. 32. In the name of Chapter 5, the last entry is added to the register of non-profit corporate bodies. 33. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 after the words the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (b) in para. 2 finally added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (c) in para. 3 after the words the Register of Commerce shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. (d) in para. 4 after the words the register is added to the register of non-profit corporate entities. 34. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 4 after the words the register is added to the register of non-profit corporate entities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u91	Colleagues, speeches on Mr. Lachezar Nikiforov's proposals, Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs and the proposal for an amendment to the Commission report? Here you go, Mr. Nikiforov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! Our proposal is related to the change of art. 1, para. 2 in the Commercial Register Act, which we propose to amend as follows: This Law does not apply to political parties and religions, as well as to trade unions. Our motives for this are as follows: our proposal as a whole is in line with the commitments made by the Bulgarian state and they arise from art. Art. 3, Art. Art. 6 and art. 7 of Convention No 87 of the International Labour Organisation, ratified, which, through its texts, gives exclusive autonomy to trade unions with regard to the formation of their statutes, objectives, tasks, tools for achieving them, membership, financing, representation, registration as a legal person and a number of others. In this sense, the Act in force and therefore the settled caselaw take into account the right of trade unions to use only the order of registration in the current register of the court. In this regard, we believe that trade union organizations are a special kind of association of citizens and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria distinguish them in a firm way from other associations of citizens, comparative analysis between art. 12 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 49, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is this legislation that is in relation with the Convention mentioned above, as well as with a number of other international acts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country. This gives us reason to believe that there is no reason to believe that the current regime for registration of trade unions should be maintained, i.e. the register for them to remain in court. In this regard, the Commission on Labour Law of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of 25 February 2016 was also pronounced by its decision. In addition, a very justified, legally justified letter of the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria is presented to our attention in all parliamentary groups. No 02-01-26 from 1 September 2016. I am counting that the parliamentary groups have carefully and thoroughly familiarized themselves with the legal analysis made in it. I therefore believe that our proposal, which we are making by the ABB Parliamentary Group, will be supported. I would just like to point out that in the Legal Committee on the same proposal, 5 of the members voted for it and 7 abstained. On this basis, it was rejected. Now I ask you for a solution in the other direction, which we consider correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u93	Any lines to Mr. Nikiforov? I won't. To make a statement, Daniel Kirilov. There are no lines to Mr. Nikiforov. We're listening to your statement, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u94	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Indeed, my colleague Nikiforov told you in much part some of the debates that took place in the Legal Committee on this case. I'll allow myself to give a little more detail. In Legal Committee, we debated the operation of the new regime in respect of all persons, including trade unions. We supported the importer because we believe that the understanding of the importer is general and correct, that is, the entries in the Registry of Legal Persons, because it is, I would say, much easier the procedure, much more ergonomic, much more technical and modern, would benefit all persons: both for the benefit of the audience and for the benefit of the legal persons themselves, so that they would benefit the trade unions themselves. True, in the Legal Committee, we had a partial idea of the discussions that took place in the Tripartite Cooperation Council. At this time and as this case, this issue continues to escalate, after a discussion in our parliamentary group and after a decision of the parliamentary group's leadership, we would be inclined to support the proposal, which has remained unsupported by the Legal Commission of our colleague Nikiforov in relation to trade unions, but on the following condition: strictly respecting the equality between trade union and employers' organizations. By the way, the minutes of the Tripartite Council, the decision ends in this very sense, saying: the members of the Commission unanimously accepted that the current order of registration of the employees' organisations and employers in the court should be maintained, i.e. I am making the following proposal, which contains half the proposal, the rejected proposal of my colleague Nikiforov. 2 of art. 1, para. 2 of the Commercial Register Act to be amended as follows: This Law does not apply to political parties and religions, as well as to trade unions and employers' organizations. That is to say, in the subject matter, in the exclusion from the scope of this Law there will be four groups of parties involved - political parties, religion, trade unions and employers' organizations. Thank you. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u95	Any lines to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I wanted to make a statement with a proposal that my colleague Daniel Kirilov has already made. We have also been thoroughly acquainted with the letter of the CST. The proposal by colleague Nikiforov is actually recognized by him a text proposed by the CNSB, but there was no addition that guarantees equality between trade union and employers' organizations, which the colleague Daniel Kirilov did very well. I and my parliamentary group will support Daniel Kirilov's proposal for the simple reason that it complements the proposed text of colleague Kirilov. But here I would also like to say something else that is extremely important "that, in fact, very often, parliamentary committees fall into such a state to vote on texts in the dark, that is, in this case, a good text has been rejected in the Parliamentary Committee on Legal Affairs, for the simple reason that there has not been enough information and colleagues because of its absence have been forced to vote in this way. However, this is not a good practice that I will show you in the next bill, which we are going to consider either today or tomorrow, on the promotion of employment. You will see that again because of lack of information decisions are made that are not good, and now you will have to, as here in this case, change the Adhok these texts. We will support the proposal made by our colleague Danail Kirilov, and all other texts on equality, ways of registration are regulated in the Labour Code for the nationally represented organizations, so the text that Daniel Kirilov proposed is the most complete and the most accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u97	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed, the vote is pending. Mr. Nikiforov, in this situation, I expect you to withdraw your offer. You're withdrawing the offer. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support it. Vote 77 MPs: 11 against 45, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. According to the version of § 26 by importer, which becomes § 27 in the Commission report, I shall put to the vote Mr. Daniel Kirilov's proposal for amendment to this paragraph. 2 where it changes art. 1, in its second paragraph, the text shall be: This Law does not apply to political parties and religions, as well as to trade unions and employers' organizations. We vote on Mr. Kirilov's proposal. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We are voting in full § 26 by importer, which becomes § 27 for amendments to the Commercial Register Act, on the report of the Commission, in line with the decision already adopted to amend art. 1, para. 2. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The amendments to the Commercial Register Act have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The Law on Registry Bulstat (prom., SG...) makes the following additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 shall be added at the end: s are not non-profit legal entities within the meaning of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. (b) c. 3 Finally added s are not non-profit legal entities. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8a The
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u99	Statements under Paragraph 28 of the report? I won't. We vote § 28. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u100	Paragraph 28. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: supposed to be as follows: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Family Code, in art. 116, para. 1 words written in the Central Register under art. 45, para. 1 of the Law on non-profit legal persons shall be replaced by the registered in the court register referred to in art. 17, para. 1 of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and declared in the register under art. 17, para. 2 of the same law. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u101	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 73 MPs: 12, against 48, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 28 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, which shall become § 29. Vote 80 MPs: 71, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Thirty-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u102	Honourable Members of Parliament, the meeting is continuing. Until the break, § 29 was voted on, including the report. The following is a report of § 29 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u103	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Paragraph 29 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: In § 29 concerning the Law on People's Chitalishtes: 1. Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be amended as follows: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 the register of non-profit corporate entities is added at the end; (b) in para. 3 after the words the register of the district court shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate bodies. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a, para. 6 Finally, the register of non-profit corporate entities is added. 2. Paragraphs 4 and 5 shall be amended as follows: "4." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 3 after the words the Register of Justice shall be added to the register of non-profit corporate bodies. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 in the main text after the words the register of the district court is added to the register of non-profit corporate bodies. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u104	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 64 MPs: 5 against 48, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. Vote 68 MPs: 65, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Report the paragraphs fully supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u106	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 30 to 34 by importer, which shall become respectively paragraphs 31 to 35 by the Commission report. Vote 74 Members of Parliament: 72, none, abstention 2 The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u107	Paragraph 35 s of the proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: To be amended as follows: .............................................................................. In the Law on Cultural Heritage, in art. 30, para. 2, p. 3 after the words "court registration".......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 35, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 30, para. 2, p. 3 after the words "court registration" "if there is no entry in the trade register and in the register of non-profit legal entities."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u108	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support this proposal. Vote 76 MPs: for 7, against 55, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 35 by importer, which becomes § 36 in the version of the Commission on its report. Vote 78 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u109	Under § 36, an offer by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs shall be made: In § 36 concerning the Law on Consumer Protection: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 concerning Art. 168, para. 1, t. 4 after the word "Inscriptions" to be added to the statement. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 concerning Art. 170, para. 1, t. 2 the words "signed' are replaced by "signed' and "signed'. 3. Point 3 concerning art. 170a, para. 1, t. 3 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u110	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 7 against 61 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on § 36 by importer, fully supported by the Commission, which becomes § 37. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u111	The Commission does not support the text of the importer for § 37. There is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... In the Act on Accounting (promise, SG...) in art. 38, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 2. non-profit legal entities with public benefit status by declaring and making them available in a register of non-profit legal entities led by the Registry Agency under the terms and conditions of the Non-profit Legal Entities Act, by 30 June of the following year.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u112	Are there any statements under § 37 under importer for amendments to the Accounting Act? You see the Commission report, this text of the importer is not supported. A different change in the Accounting Act is proposed. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 37 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 38 again for a change in the Accounting Act. Vote 82 MPs: 80, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u113	There is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 39: .............................................................................. In the Law on Gambling (prom., SG...), in art. 4, para. 1, t. 4 and in art. 10a, para. 4 words defined for public use are replaced by a public benefit status.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u114	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 39 with the version reported by Mr. Kirilov. Vote 84 MPs: 78, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u115	Under § 38 under importer there is a proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova: "Paragraph 38 to become § 39 and in it the words "January 1st 2016" shall be replaced by "January 1st The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "In § 38, the words..1 January 2016.......... 1 January The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission proposes to create a new § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The Law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u116	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, which is identical with the proposal of Mr. Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The proposal is for the Law to enter into force on 1 January 2017. The Commission does not support these proposals. We are voting for the unsupported proposal, which is identical to Mrs. Stoyanova and Yordanova, Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs from the left. [[Noise and lines.]] Unsupported offer! Vote 81 MPs: 8 against 19, abstention 54. The proposals have not been accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for a new § 40, under which the Law enters into force from 1 January 2018. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and with this, at second reading, the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTANCE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. The bill was submitted by Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Angelova on 17 March 2016, adopted at first reading on 14 April 2016. We're listening, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 654-01-37, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Svilen Ivanov, Petar Slavov and Ralitsa Angelova on 17 March 2016, adopted at first reading on 14 April 2016. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u118	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 81 MPs: 79 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1 and 2 by importer, fully supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u121	Paragraph 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Articles 19a-19g are inserted: "Definition of an administrative contract' Art. 19a. (1) In proceedings before administrative authorities, the parties may conclude an administrative contract on matters of significant public interest where provided for in a law. (2) The administrative contract shall be a written agreement between an administrative body and citizens or organisations. (3) The administrative contract shall be concluded in writing and shall contain: parties, subject matter and content, date of conclusion and signature of the parties, unless otherwise provided for in a special law. Rules for the conclusion of the administrative contract Art. 19b. (1) In the proceedings concerning the conclusion of the administrative contract shall apply the provisions of Chapter 5, Section I, with the exception of art. 21, 26, 32, 35, 58, 59, 61, 63 and 64, unless otherwise provided for in a special law. (2) The administrative contract shall be concluded within the time limits laid down in art. 57, para. 1.....here it is written:..alines of 4-9..but clearly there are points of 4-9...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u122	On Al. 1, yes. There's no way...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u123	... until otherwise provided in a special law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u124	So, no al. Two and three, I get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u125	That's right, you understand that, Madam President. To clarify, it is about:................................................................................. 57, para. 1 and paragraphs 4-9 to the extent that it is not otherwise provided for in a special law. (3) If prior consent or opinion of another administrative authority is required for the conclusion of the administrative contract in a special law, the contract shall take effect after the administrative authority concerned gives consent or opinion in the form laid down in the law. (4) If, within the period laid down in the special law, the other administrative authority does not rule, art. 53. (5) Where an administrative contract for the prevention or suspension of infringements relating to national security and public order is urgently to be concluded to ensure the life, health and property of citizens, the provisions of Chapter 5, Section I concerning the collection of documents by non-cooperating persons, the clarification of a party to the proceedings, the costs of the party and the person not involved in the proceedings and the time limit for the conclusion of the contract under art. 57. Action of the administrative contract Art. 19c. An administrative contract which affects the rights or legitimate interests of a third party shall take effect upon the written consent of that person. Prior implementation of the administrative contract Art. Nineteen years old. (1) In the defence of the public interest, the administrative authority may provide for a clause for the admission of pre-execution of the contract. (2) Pre-execution granted may be appealed by the administrative authority before the court within the time limits and under the order of art. 60 of that code. (3) In the event that the contract does not contain a pre-execution clause, any party may request one from the court under the conditions under which it may be admitted by the administrative authority. The request shall be dealt with in a closed session and the court shall rule without delay by order which may be appealed by a private appeal within 7 days of its notification. In that case, the court may request an appropriate guarantee of a size specified by it. Amendment and termination of the administrative contract Art. 19e. (1) If, after the conclusion of the contract, one of the parties cannot fulfil it due to a significant change in the circumstances under which the contract is concluded, the Party may request an amendment of the terms of the contract in accordance with the amended circumstances. Where this is not possible or if the other Party refuses, it may terminate the contract. (2) The administrative authority may unilaterally, by written notice, terminate the contract in order to prevent or eliminate severe public interest effects. Invalidity of the administrative contract Art. 19f. (1) The administrative contract shall be invalid in the presence of the grounds under art. 146. (2) Where invalidity affects only part of the contract which is irrelevant to the public interest, the contract shall act if it can be assumed that it would be concluded without the nullity part. Order of challenge of the administrative contract Art. 19g. (1) The administrative contract may be challenged before the court in accordance with Section I of Chapter tenth of Chapter I. (2) The challenge of the contract shall not stop its execution. (3) The Court shall examine the case and decide on the request within two months of its entry, unless otherwise provided for in a special law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u126	Paragraph 3 statements, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u127	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! In essence, the contract is an agreement between two or more parties to establish, arrange or terminate a legal link between them. In the case of the contract, the parties are equal, unlike administrative law, public relations between the State and other legal entities. I think that these relations are sufficiently settled in Article 21 of the Administrative Code, where the definition of an individual administrative act is described and given. Why and in the name of what interest the state will give up these powers in practice...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u128	This is a matter of first reading this bill. You've developed detailed considerations. I remind you that we are at second reading at the moment, in principle supported by the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement to the APC! Let us make a difference in our speeches for the first and second votes! It's in the editing room!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u129	That's right, the editing. It's about the definition of an administrative contract, as recorded here. The administrative contract shall be a written agreement between the administrative authority and a citizen or organisation. The question here is why are these amendments aimed at withdrawing powers from the State, in my opinion, and their distribution between the State and private legal entities and whose interests and how will the State protect these public interests? Perhaps in the same way as you protected your interests in the sale of 7 decares attractive properties in the center of Sofia, far below the cost of this type of property - at 1200 BGN per square of 650 000 BGN for 7 decares in the center of Sofia. Thus, there is no way to protect state and public interests with this treaty. The definition of an individual administrative act is good enough. For this reason, the whole concept of paragraph 3 I think is unacceptable, especially in a situation where the state must prove that there is in practice state and state in Bulgaria, and here they are taken away from its powers. Again, I hope this does not aim to repeat the case of the sale of attractive properties in the center of Sofia, which happened.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u130	You still have 2 minutes and 32 seconds to make it third and fourth without any connection to the text that is the subject of the debate at the moment. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u131	Honourable Members of the House! I believe that the framework proposed by this paragraph, as well as by this amendment to the Administrative Procedure Code, is a serious step and achievement in the development of administrative and material law, including specifically the provisions that have been commented and proposed as Articles 19a to 19g. We believe that, as a result of very precise work, I would remind you that between first and second readings on this bill was created an explicit working group involving representatives of Sofia University, the Department of Administrative Law, as well as judges of the Supreme Administrative Court, we believe that in this case a framework is proposed to be the basis and foundation for the conclusion of administrative contracts. Here I will remind you of the following. The fact that the State participates or the administrative authority, the State through the administrative authority concludes an administrative contract does not mean that it is deprived of its powers of authority. On the contrary, this is a regime in which the authority's authority status can be agreed in a hypothesis in which it could negotiate a level playing field. There is a clear trend that the opposition and colleagues are trying to track by analogy in this case, but I would like to say the following. And colleague Popov knows well and can give me a reply about this: the regime for the conclusion of sales contracts under the State Property Act is a separate regime. He, when we accept these amendments now, will treat it as special to a general because with the provisions of Articles 19a to 19g, we are in fact establishing the general regime of administrative contracts which would manifest themselves and would have detailed regulation in other material laws. Regarding the vicious topic today, which my colleague Popov is talking about, with great effort and without defending in any way the current district governor of Sofia, because I do not know the specific parameters of the specific deal, I will note the following to Mr. Popov's attention. The arguments, Mr. Popov...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u132	Are you making a line of his speech, or are you making your own statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u133	It's his own statement in which...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u134	In the form of dialogue with Mr. Popov. Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u135	So that my colleague can give me a line, and I hope to learn something more concrete than what he merely mentioned in his speech. I would like to mention, Mr. Popov, that this is a judicial epic that lasted more than 10 years. I would be curious to get acquainted with the documents, because as a district manager, I have given, examined and searched for many documents related to the process-related transaction to Sofia for three years and nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u136	Now I expected you to request a break on behalf of a group to clarify with Mr. Popov outside the couloir on the issues of this deal, which we cannot include in the debate in today's plenary session. A line, Mr. Popov? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u137	Thank you. To clarify, I did not refer to my colleague Kirilov in the deal in question. My reply is aimed at the speech of my colleague Kirilov. Give a definition of what is really the difference between the administrative contract and the administrative act. Then let's think about the direction in which this bill is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u138	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr Popov! In our view we have given a precise definition, which, I think, both legal and technical, and meaningful works. At the risk of not liking my explanation of fellow-specialists in the legal doctrine, I will answer the following simple way to your question. The administrative act is a sovereign order. It's between uneven subjects. The contract is an agreement, a bilateral deal between equal entities. Since there is a relationship between these two extremes, there is a relationship in which the authority that rules should and may also have other laws ordering it to participate as an equal entity, so it is necessary to define this one, I would say, an intermediate form between the two extremes, when one of the parties, although it is a sovereign entity, nevertheless negotiates an equal and the consequences of this negotiation must be valued equally. Therefore, a regulation must be established as to how the authority, despite its authority, must act equally with the other entity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u140	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 3 to establish new members from 19a to 19g in the version of the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 83, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u141	Paragraph 4. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 128, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the administrative contracts are added at the end. 2. A new t. is created. 3: "3." the execution of an administrative contract insofar as it is not otherwise provided for in a special law; 3. The previous points 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 become 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u142	Paragraph 4 statements? I won't. We are voting§ 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u143	Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. In Article "4." the administrative contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u144	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 5 for changes to art. 268, new t. 4. Colleagues, we are voting § 5 on the Commission report. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u145	Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Svilen Ivanov and Anna Alexandrova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Anna Alexandrova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name of "Concluding provisions' with § 6 and § 7: "Concluding provisions' § 6. In the Law for the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 para. 6 is amended as follows: In challenging the individual administrative acts under this Law, the state fees collected for the legal proceedings are proportionate and of 1 percent of the material interest, but not more than BGN 1700, and in cases where the material interest is more than 10 million. lv. The fee is BGN 4500. A proportionate fee of 10 per cent of the fee due per sentence shall be charged to the Supreme Administrative Court first but not less than 100 levs. 2. In § 10 of the Transitional and Final Provisions: (a) in para. 2 the word "suppliers' is replaced by "suppliers'; (b) the creation of para. 3: The civil proceedings under claims against statements of financial corrections of the Head of the Managing Authority shall be completed in the current order until the entry into force of this Act. § 7. Paragraph 6, t. 2, b. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u146	Christmas special, huh?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u148	Okay. All proposals are supported. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote Final provisions, § 6, item 6. 1 and 2 and § 7, as presented by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 84, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. So that concludes the consideration of this point. The next item in the program is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EMPLOYMENT DEPRECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. Please provide the views of the committees. The first report is from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Mr. Ademov, please submit the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, allow me to make a procedural proposal in the Chamber to allow the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov and the Director of Directorate at the Ministry Mrs. Elka Dimitrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u150	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the House of said representatives of the Ministry. Vote 80 MPs: 77, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u151	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, No 602-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 31 August 2016 discussed and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act with the importer of the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. With this bill, the importer aims to implement the specific recommendations of the European Commission to Bulgaria, namely that in the field of the labour market Bulgaria should strengthen and integrate social services and active employment policies, in particular for the long-term unemployed and young people who are not involved in any form of employment, education or training. The main amendments and additions to the Bill are presented in five groups. The first group of changes concern the regulation of a new measure to promote the mobility of unemployed persons, namely: when unemployed persons, including young people from specialized institutions or enjoying social services in the community of a resident type who have completed their education, begin work after guidance from the Directorate of Employment and Employment in another locality, which is more than 50 km from the locality at the current address, to receive funds for fees for nursery, kindergartens, rent of accommodation, fees for use of the Internet, but not more than 12 months. The amount of funds will be determined annually in the National Employment Action Plan and the terms and conditions for their receipt in the Rules for Implementation of the Employment Promotion Act. The second group of changes concern improving access to the services of the Employment Agency. With the proposed changes, job seekers will be able to use information and/or consulting services, guidance and assistance for starting a job and psychological assistance regardless of the registration address. The penalty for termination of registration will be dropped when job seekers change the address on which they are registered at the Department of Labour and without informing them. The third group of changes concern the inclusion of new activities of regional employment committees. In order to better take account of the needs of local employers from a labour force with a specific qualification, the employment committees of district development councils will twice a year collect, process and provide the Employment Agency with information on the employment needs of employers in the field concerned. The order of recruitment, processing and provision of information will be laid down in the Rules for Implementation of the Employment Promotion Act. The fourth group of changes will regulate the expansion of enterprises' access to programs and measures in the labour market. With the proposed changes, undertakings in difficulty will also be able to receive funds representing minimal aid under Regulation 1407/2013. Employers, as well as institutions training adults or professional guidance, will now be able to receive funds under the Employment Promotion Act representing minimal aid. This will also apply to those enterprises and employers operating in the sector of production. The fifth group of changes concerns changes to the application for registration of an undertaking providing temporary work. The application will change in accordance with the amendments made to art. 74g, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Employment Promotion Act. The applicant shall not apply to the application for registration a certificate from the respective territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency for the existence or absence of obligations at the date of submission of the application, as well as a certificate from the respective municipality of registration of the undertaking for the presence or absence of obligations at the date of submission of the application. For the purposes of administrative proceedings, the Employment Agency will require certificates by official means in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the National Revenue and Municipal Revenue Agency. The Commission received the opinions of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Union for Business Initiative, the Confederation of Labour, as well as the Joint Position of KT "Supporta" and of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria on the non-application of minimum aid schemes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Members of the National Assembly Dimitar Bajraktarov, Svetlana Angelova, Mariana Todorova and Hassan Ademov took part in the discussion. By expressing their common support for the bill, they asked questions to the introduction of the bill related to the way the National Employment Action Plan funds were spent, the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" on the employment measures of unemployed persons and unemployed persons with low qualifications and literacy. In addition, they voiced concerns about the relieved conditions under which the new measures will be implemented, thereby enabling active labour market measures to materialise as well. In the discussion the MPs united around the thesis that the changes are necessary and necessary, but they also need more concreteization and completeness. At the end of the discussion and the vote with results 9 votes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act, 602-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u152	Thank you. We're moving on to discussion. So far there have been two requests made by Georgi Gokov and Dimitar Bajraktarov. If there are other MPs... Then there's Mrs. Angelova, Mr. Ademov. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, in the order stated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, I have a particular interest in the Employment Promotion Act, so I have read it very carefully and I have come to know the proposals for amendments to this Law. I accept the motives and goals you set with these changes. First of all, once again, I would like to point out that I think it is time for a new Employment Promotion Act. The actor has now been adopted in 2001 and has been in force since 1 January 2002 and I think he played his positive role in developing the national labour market and in general promoting employment. At the same time, there are already many references to old amendments and additions. All of this cannot not complicate the implementation of the desired employment policy as a whole and the implementation of individual labour market policies. In discussing the latest changes that were tabled again by the Council of Ministers in July last year and finally adopted in December last year, I drew attention to the then minister that it is indeed time for a new law and must be drawn up even then so that we do not have to make further amendments to the old law. See, I was right, and only eight or nine months later, we have to accept new amendments to the Law again. I will give this to the replacement of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, although this is not an acquittal in this direction. When I called for a new law, I was answered in the process of discussing the bill that I am right, but I need a quick response for a number of reasons, such as changes in the socio-economic environment and inability to pay with beneficiaries under the programmes by the Employment Agency. Now, once again, changes may be made with the same motives that urgent changes need to be made without making a more serious analysis of the need for a whole new bill and we will probably explain them again with the need for a quick response. I will take this opportunity through you, Mr. Deputy Minister, to warn you that it is high time to draw up a completely new Employment Promotion Act by the Ministry's experts in cooperation with experts from the Employment Agency and social partners, which will correspond to new realities and needs. Unemployment is one of the most serious problems for our modern society, and it is therefore extremely important to have an adequate, tight and working Employment Promotion Act that gives the state mechanisms for successful intervention in the labour market and to limit the consequences of unemployment. Because with these continuous changes to the basic law, we will hardly achieve these objectives, and I doubt whether we will achieve the objectives recorded at the beginning of the motives of this Bill, namely a flexible labour market and a mobile workforce, which will meet the latest challenges in the search for labour. Otherwise, apart from being made in pieces, the proposed changes are adequate and acceptable. I'll allow myself a few comments on the proposals. Firstly, you are introducing a new measure to encourage the mobility of unemployed persons by proposing that, when unemployed persons start working after directing from the Department of Labour at another locality, away from more than 50 km away, they receive funds for the reimbursement of part of the costs associated with the relocation, as well as fees for kindergartens, kindergartens, rent for accommodation, fees for use of the Internet and so on. That's a good idea. Another question is whether it will actually work because the Bulgarian, despite the severe unemployment rate in a number of regions, is not a very labour mobile. Wouldn't this measure contribute to an even greater depopulation of already seriously affected areas due to lack of work, migration to larger cities and so on? And one more thing is that all this is really good as a proposal, but if there is no relevant obligation of municipalities to provide access to kindergarten, the change will not be working. There is a need for labour in large economic centers, but there are permanent problems with the lack of seats and accommodation in kindergartens and nurseries. The admission is usually made once or at least twice a year and by different rules, for example, first by electronic registration of the application, working of the parents to the establishment, residence of the parents in the region of the restaurant and so on. There are no ranking criteria for moving to a new workplace. So what if under the Employment Promotion Act someone is given funds to accommodate his children in kindergarten or nursery if the child cannot be put into practice? And another very passing thing in § 9, Art. 9. 42, you create para. 3, which generally reads:.. unemployed persons, including young people from specialized institutions, or enjoying social services in the community of resident type who have completed their education............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I do not know if I am right, but I believe that in the conditions of more and more dropouts from the education system it is inappropriate for this text to stand for completed education, because very often young people from these establishments fail to pass their exams, respectively they do not finish their education, but they still have to work because they do not have another alternative. I'm stating that for now, there's a group of young people who have eluded your sights. These are the children of the Bulgarian economic migrants who are from poor regions. They leave school and go to their parents. In order not to do so or after having returned for some reason, is it not appropriate to be part of this priority target group, such as young people who have dropped out of the education system due to life and work abroad to be offered these services until a certain period after their return from abroad, for example, six months? These young people are mobile, have developed working habits, are often dropped out of the education system, and if they do not find institutional support for work and training, they will look for a way to return abroad again. Secondly, improving access to the services of the Employment Agency. Changes to registration requirements are undoubtedly positive and in the interests of job seekers. I can't help but notice one more positive thing. In the additional provisions of the Employment Promotion Act, in the definition of unemployed, the requirement that the person in registration does not fall into another group of jobseekers. After a change in the definition of unemployed student, he will be able to register as unemployed at the employment office and, more importantly, he will enjoy the right to monetary unemployment benefit when, of course, he meets the other conditions laid down in the Social Security Code. I have a parliamentary question on this occasion and a promise from the Minister to solve the problem. That's how the problem really gets solved. But again, through you, Mr. Deputy Minister, I would like you to note at the final adoption of the texts that there will be people who, in the period of the instructions received from the Employment Agency and the entry into force of these amendments, are affected and are currently not entitled to receive compensation. By the time they have acquired that right, they will in some way have lost their compensation and we must resolve this issue fairly. Otherwise, people's expectations of justice will be lied to. I don't know how to solve this issue, I have no solution and no idea yet, but you have to find it because there are people affected in this direction who have been denied compensation. Thirdly, you include a new obligation, a new activity of regional employment committees. They will recruit, process and provide the Employment Agency with information on the employment needs of employers in the field twice a year. Excellent hit, which can lead to the identification of the needs of local employers from a labour force with a certain qualification. However, I stress very seriously, as long as these committees do not formally treat this obligation. I think it is high time to review the principle of the formation of these committees, of their compositions and of their duties. I dare say that many of these committees are doing absolutely formal work, and no matter how many obligations we place on them, however appropriate they may be, will not result in any improvement, nor will they benefit the Employment Agency, nor will it lead to an improvement in regional labour markets. For now, I will not comment on the other issues in detail. Just one comment on your idea of expanding businesses' access to programs and measures in the labour market. I will just mention that we have not been able to introduce a single interpretation of these minimum aids under the various EU regulations. This makes it extremely difficult for both employers using programmes and measures, as well as employees and experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, managing these programmes and measures. I think it is high time that we defined these minimum aids categorically, a single interpretation and applied them properly. And I will conclude by saying that I will support, in principle, the first vote, this yet another Law amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act, because I am aware that the development and adoption of an entirely new Law is a slow process, and the labour market is quite dynamic. I expected the minister to be here and to promise from this tribune that while he is a minister, he will do everything possible to start at least a new law governing the promotion of employment in Bulgaria. I will support the proposed amendments to the first vote and because given the positive opinions I see at all, of the social partners, because a negative opinion under the Law I have not read, I see that you have received unanimous support from these social partners and if you manage to engage them, to include them in the working group for the creation of a new law, it will be a success for the Ministry and will be able to boast something really good and creative, done during your mandate. Thank you for your attention. We will watch closely from the parliamentary group what will happen between first and second readings as proposals. Those who are successful will be supported, who are not. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u154	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for your opinion and arguments. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Bayraktarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am, by the way, amazed by the statement of the previous colleague. Why am I amazed? Because, first, the BSP in the Commission did not support the Bill, which is interesting to know. The same colleague was absent from the Commission. I wonder what positions he's expressing on him...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u156	It's the first time he's expressed his position on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u157	Wait a minute! If you don't mind, I'd like to express a position...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u158	No, no! Not you...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u159	Listen carefully, you'll learn something! [[Radio.]] Why am I amazed, fellow Members? It is no coincidence that in examining one of the previous Bills, I have told you that it is becoming a vicious practice to make decisions on important laws in the dark. I am amazed at the speech of my colleague because he unanimously supported a decision of the Labour and Social Policy Committee of 10 June 2008, which was sent to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, in particular to the Minister. What does this decision of the Labour Commission state? The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should prepare an analysis and evaluation of positive and negative trends according to the indicators set out in the separate budgetary programmes within the framework of the expenditures established by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016 on policy areas and/or budget programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2016. Policies and programmes in accordance with the Law are: firstly, employment policy. I am stopping because today we are looking at the Employment Promotion Act. Guess what the answer is from the honourable Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Whoever wants it, I can give it to him. On 13 July the Labour Committee in the face of the honourable President of the Commission, Dr. Hasan Ademov received this answer. In summary, the answer reads as follows: "In relation to the implementation of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act and due to the lack of final, reliable and reliable information on natural and valuable indicators for the preparation of requests by the Commission analysis, the latter cannot be provided by 15 July 2016 The Commission's decision has been unanimously voted by all Commissioners, that is, honourable Members, so I am amazed by the speech of my colleague Gyokov, he has also supported this decision. Today you are obliged to accept the amendments to the Law on the promotion of employment in the dark, and policies concern budgetary resources of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes More than that! The Minister of Labour and Social Policy with this answer has failed to read by chance art. 133, para. 1 of the Public Finance Act, which obliges it on a monthly basis and on a quarterly basis to provide this information, which he claims to have no data, is unreliable data, i.e. the minister replied that he does not know how and how 1 billion is spent. The Commission therefore concludes But there are no problems to offer us in the Employment Promotion Act new spending unknown in what size. I have done my hard work before paying attention to the specific texts and thank you that there are still conscientious officials to provide me with this information, this is the report of the honourable Minister of Labour and Social Policy with the reasons on which the changes proposed to your attention are proposed. I'll read you some interesting things, and you can decide whether or not they're true. The first motive that should concern the so-called labour mobility for amendments to the Law is that the imbalance in the territorial distribution of the population is deepening. And now pay attention, fellow Members! The largest territorial movement is in the direction of the village: 37.6%, i.e. about 38%. Sjec 38% of the urban population, according to the minister's lady and the data she presents, is directed from the town to the village. Do you believe this thing? In total depopulation of rural areas! It was only a month and a half ago that I bothered to take a big tour. Believe me, we already have villages that need to be deleted from the register of settlements, villages where 2-3,000 people lived, currently there is no one, or there are one or two grandfathers or grandmothers. That's the sad picture! According to the minister, however, 37 whole or nearly 38% of the city are exported to the village. And that's a motive for encouraging what's called labour mobility. Is it true, though? The Dear Minister, refusing to provide information on how the costs are moving, what are the positive, what are the negative trends, spending hundreds of millions of levs, in fact what we have achieved against them. In the dark! You must also make this decision today in the dark to support these new costs, because, honourable Members, first of all, we are offered to add a new item. 24 in art. 30a of the Employment Promotion Act. It is more interesting because I am convinced that many of the colleagues, since they are not profiled in this area, do not know what matters to art. 30a and what are the previous 23 points. The previous 23 points are the formulation of expenditures, which spend hundreds of millions of levs on the Bulgarian taxpayer. I will read them to you: for the implementation of programs and measures to promote employment, funds are provided for: first In order to save time, these are the so-called payment of contributions under the Code are social security. Five, sick and so on. The sixth is the same way. Seven years of adult training. Adult training! Now the question arises: Which adults? Those who are in retirement age and do not need to be subject to mobile employment. Who? There's no answer. The important thing is to spend money, to train both adults. It's okay. And we'll report activity, and then we'll say there's no money to increase pensions. Of course there won't be, by spending aimlessly and, like this, without taking charge! We continue to encourage the territorial mobility of unemployed persons registered in the employment agency's divisions. Here we had to get information about what was going on, what funds have been spent, how many of these encouraged individuals have started lasting work. In fact, in the end all these 23 points, and now in addition to 24 points, what are they? They represent purely and simply subsidised employment and unfair competition in the market of certain close firms, because certain close firms will receive these funds, the state and taxpayers will pay the salaries of their workers, will pay them the costs. And now, as a cover, there's something interesting: add t. 24, which provides for payment of accommodation expenses, payment of internet, fees for kindergartens, for nurseries. And here we have to move on to art. 43... to whom? To the unemployed, pay attention, which are directed and living more than 50 kilometers from the place by address registration. It is not specified here whether by current address, whether by permanent address. The text itself does not say which, writes: by registration. However, the thin point is: over 50 kilometers, i.e. all that is outside, I will give an example. We will move, for example, an unemployed person who must be registered with the Labour Bureau in order to take account of the activity, from Varna, say, in Sofia, because the distance is over 50 km. The gentleman or lady will come here, and pay attention here, it's about low-skilled workers. Low-skilled, which the minister can see, is very strongly confirmed and agreed that this is what this is all about. There is a transcript from the previous Commission, you can read it and make sure that what I say is right. In other words, some low-skilled people will be moved from a distance to the xx, which is more than 50 km away, we will pay some serious costs, and here is something more interesting that every year the Bulgarian government adopts a National Employment Action Plan. It and 2015 and 2016 set priorities for not spending money on sending people from a place to a place of place of place of more than 50 kilometers, for the simple reason that whole areas are being depopulated and this is now a matter of national security, because, first of all, border regions are being depopulated. The government has adopted this action plan of its own and has said that the funds must be invested in these areas so that people can stay in places, our border zones can be populated with people and they have a place to work. In fact, something exactly the opposite is being done here, which is already a matter of national security: payment millions of levs to the taxpayer to depopulate our areas. Then what are we building equipment for? What do we spend millions on protecting our borders to leave them without people and wonder who should go to work and pay him to get rid of him even if there's a word? Is that our law?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u160	Mr. Bayraktarov, since time is up, one option is to extend.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u161	Continue, please, the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u162	You're holding on to the extension? Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u163	We're moving on. Last December here, from this tribune, I criticised the changes in item. 4 of the Additional Provisions This is a change in an appropriate place of work. Now they're changing again. 4. Note, however, no one tells in a year what happened on this item. 4. Moreover, financial justification shall be provided. I can present it to whoever the Members of the National Assembly will, in which you will see that there is not a single number what the expenditure under this Law will be. Not a single number! If such financial justifications are the basis for the adoption of laws, I don't know what we're doing here then. And don't look at me with a happy face, because you've spent hundreds of millions and no one knows what they've gone for, and the result is 125,000 people permanently unemployed, and this number continues to grow. That's the result! Point 4 was that a suitable workplace should be up to 30 kilometers, increased to 50 to serve certain companies again. According to our information, a huge part of Botevgrad has started work in Sofia. You can check this information, but it's not giving up, it's hiding. Why is he hiding?! I ask in the end: what country is Bulgaria a republic with parliamentary government or a republic with a minister's, I do not know what government? But apparently the MPs, the National Assembly, mean nothing to this Ministry, which hides information, and to this day has not presented it, will probably not present it. Therefore, I personally will not support this Bill. I also call on you not to support it, because it is a matter of principle. Hundreds of millions will be spent, and you will be responsible if you support the Law with your vote. It is very easy then to say that there is no money for pensions, that there is no money for anything else, and at the same time to legitimize by voting on the dark, non-pardon spending of millions, not to say billions of funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u164	Thank you. A lot of questions have been raised. Mr. Gokov has the floor for a line. At the end of the discussion, an opinion will also be given on behalf of the importers. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, my own will be a personal explanation with the elements of a replica. Come on, let's think of it as a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u166	Okay, a line with elements of a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u167	All right, so be it. First of all, Mr. Bayraktarov, my personal explanation. I have been absent from the Commission meeting because I have had commitments and have arranged my absence in the appropriate order set out in the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov.]] This is the first time I've expressed my feelings about the Bill. We have discussed it in the group and we will support it at first reading, I repeat it once again. I voted for the requested analysis and evaluation of the various policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because they are really necessary and everyone should be aware and know what the impact of spending money is. That's not the point. It doesn't bother me, I allow myself to say it, I'm not an expert in many things, but at least that's what I think my expertise allows me without such an analysis and an assessment of policies to see that the things that are being offered at the moment are good. Employment policies do not always have the same effect. In this case, importers want to improve mobility and say they will depopulate the areas. Let's keep these people out of work in these areas just so they don't depopulate the areas, and they stay out of work. Depopulation of the regions is subject to other policies and other laws. I'm running out of time, and there's a lot I want to tell you. There is no financial justification, and you say, "There are hundreds of millions." I don't know how hundreds of millions are spent when the National Employment Action Plan has only 73 million!? I don't know where the hundreds of millions you're talking about?! A small amount of this money will be allocated to the measure. If we believe that this measure will not work effectively, we will spend some money and see if it works. If necessary, next year will increase the money under this measure. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I was more of a personal explanation than a line. You have your conviction, I have mine. I don't think anyone can account for my expertise and my ability to support or reject anything on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u168	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any other lines? I won't. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleague Gyokov, no one has put your absence to debate, it was simply taken into account as a fact that you confirmed you were absent from the Commission that day. You may have really good reasons, no one has put it as your violation or bad conduct. As far as your expertise is concerned, it is your right to give your own assessment of yourself as an expert as you wish. It is my right to express my opinion, and my opinion is that I seriously doubt your expertise for a simple reason................. no self-respecting expert would dare to say that without analysis, without information can give a clear assessment. I'm going further in terms of the hundreds of millions. One billion hundred and nine million are the policies in which we wanted to get a proper analysis of the positive and negative trends in natural values! If this isn't hundreds of millions for you, I don't know what maths and what number expressions to use. One billion one hundred and nine million are the funds under the budget policies of the ministry in question! I'm moving on. It is your right whether the BSP as a left-wing party will support the aimless spending of millions of funds. I repeat, hundreds of millions of funds are aimless. Because you, too, which I can truly say honors you, stood with me, asked questions: what are the effects of the programs carried out, what are the numerical expressions spent on employed persons? How many of these employed persons have remained permanently employed or have already been thrown off the list of permanently unemployed and unemployed at all? You have convinced yourself, and we asked this question with you last year, so I don't understand that you support something, just like that, I don't know what your goals and reasoning are. That's your right. I can't blame you for voting, but then, as a citizen, I can express my indignation and keep in mind that you are voting in the dark because everyone who supports this bill today will have to support it in the dark without the relevant information, without the appropriate analyses for which the ministry was obliged, as we have referred to art. 26 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which gives us the right to demand from the Ministry. But as you've seen, he doesn't give a shit, and what's he gonna give us information about? That is why I said that I am expressing my amazement because I am well impressed with you as a participant in this Commission, and you have always had a principled position, but that is your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u170	The next statement is from Mrs. Svetlana Angelova. Here you go. [[The National Representative Georgi Gokov wants the floor.]] I don't think we have to, Mr. Gokov. There will be an opportunity in the course of the debate to give you the floor again. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u171	Thank you. Mr. President, honourable Members, I thought I would make a brief statement on the amendments to the Employment Promotion Act, but after the emotional speech of the speaker, the said quite inaccuracies about the changes that are being made in the Employment Promotion Act and personal insults to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I am obliged to lighten, so to say, the changes in the Employment Promotion Act, which my colleague Bajraktarov said was adopted in the dark. I'll start with unemployment in the country. According to Eurostat, by the end of August we have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the last four years - 7.9%, with 8.6% average unemployment for the European Union, thanks to the active policies, measures and programmes of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The changes in the Employment Promotion Act are important, necessary and will lead to the desired positive effect of reducing unemployment further, easier access to labour market services of one of the most vulnerable groups of unemployed. The main changes that deserve attention, because it has not become clear from the previous ones what changes we are talking about in the Employment Promotion Act, so I will enlighten them, as the previous one said. First of all, twice a year, the Regional Employment Commission, as it has in each area, is recruiting, processing and providing information to the Employment Agency on the employment needs of employers in the field. What's wrong with this offer? On the contrary, the information that will be updated twice a year will serve to advance training of staff who will be needed by employers from the regions concerned and new investors in the areas concerned. Thanks, above all, to this information, the demand and supply of a workforce will be more successful, which we are increasingly talking about missing and which is a major cause of unemployment, especially among young people. Secondly, attention deserves to be paid to the changes related to improving access to the services of the Employment Agency. Currently, this is to my colleague Bajraktarov, registration at the labour offices is done either at the current address or at a permanent address. It is important that the unemployed person has a registration. It does not need to be by present or permanent address only. With the change made to the Employment Promotion Act, this requirement is already abolished and this is an important change to facilitate unemployed persons who will already be able to use the services of the employment bureaus regardless of the address of registration. That is, if a person is registered with the Labour Bureau in Ruse, he can use the services of the Labour Bureau in Varna. What's wrong with this change? Next, another change is expanding businesses' access to programs and measures in the labour market. Undertakings in difficulty, as well as institutions training adults or vocational guidance, may use funds under the Employment Promotion Act, which constitute minimal aid. The most discussed and discussed new measure in this Bill is related to the subsidization of unemployed people who start work directed by the labor offices over 50 km from their home, in another locality. First of all, I would like to say that this measure is not aimed at people with low qualifications, it is aimed at all unemployed people. They will be able to receive funds from the state, and these funds will not be additional in the budget, but will be within the framework of the National Employment Action Plan, which is voted by the State Budget Act each year. It is these individuals who will be able to receive funds for one year for renting a home, fees for using the Internet, and if they are married and have children. The aim of this measure is not to depopulate small towns and underdeveloped economic areas, as has been said by the previous one, on the contrary, the very opposite in small towns, in poorly developed, unattractive economic areas, to be able to work specialists, and young ones. I'll give you an example: two girls who graduate from Sofia University with a degree in primary pedagogy are looking for a job as young teachers in metropolitan schools. You know how hard it is for a young teacher without an internship to get a job, but they want to work on their specialty. At the same time, the Bureau of Labour offers them a job in Trun and Mezdra, where there are vacancies for young teachers. What better chance for these girls to go to work there? They will be supported by funds to pay rent, for the Internet, and if they are married, they will also be able to receive funds to pay kindergarten or nursery for their children. I will give other examples with other professions, such as medical professionals, lawyers and other specialists, where there is concentration in the large settlements in Sofia, in the district cities, but in fact in small towns and underdeveloped economic areas there is no or lack of such specialists. In this way, thanks to this measure, we will encourage internal labour mobility, but not to the capital and major cities, as has been said, but to the exact opposite of what we have heard. Surely this new change in the Employment Promotion Act will be useful for young people and young professionals. I will focus on another change in relation to what the previous one said... why we are reducing the period from 18 to 12 months for the concept of a job............................................................................. Well, it's very simple, because this way we're going to want to activate long-term unemployed people to be able to get a job faster. This period of 18 months for appropriate work has not been changed for 10 years. It has not changed last year or the previous year, it has been working since 2005. Reducing this deadline for which job is appropriate and for what period from 18 to 12 months will activate more unemployed people and they will be able to find jobs faster. These are short-term proposals. I believe I have enlightened them to you, fellow Members. These changes will encourage labour mobility. Long-term unemployed will have easier access to all employment services across the country and will be easier to find jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u172	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? [[National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] Here's a personal explanation. I understand there are no lines, so we're going straight to the procedure of personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On two occasions, the representative of the Political Party GERB mentioned my name - more than that - that I have used offensive qualifications to the Minister of Labour. I'm gonna ask for the transcript, because I didn't use any offensive qualifications. Moreover, GERB's representative tried to say that I have given false and false information, which is not true at all and is not true. According to point 4, I have not commented at all on the deadline, and I have commented that we have not received any information since with the Official Journal. 101 of 2015 point 4 has been changed for appropriate work. What happened? The fact remains, Mrs. Angelova, that she has no information either. Mrs. Angelova also tried to make my statements, which I did not make from this tribune, so I will then request the express transcript: it is that I have deceived you in terms of employment. Mrs. Angelova told you that we currently have the lowest registered unemployment rate. Perhaps this is the case I did not comment on this fact. We have no information as a result of what unemployment is so low. Just a few days ago I received and saw a picture of a prominent representative of GERB from the city of Burgas, who posted on his Facebook page a photo with his whole family from September 3, at Terminal 2 at the airport in Sofia, that the person with his whole family to Spain is leaving. Do you think this man and his family are registered as unemployed and accounted for? By some chance, I know the boy personally, perhaps most of the colleagues here know him. That's why he doesn't have any information. Do not use false readings, which does not honor you!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u174	I listened to Mr. Bayraktarov's statement and I believe he did not make insults because otherwise I had to impose a measure of impact on him. He gave strong reproach to the Ministry's leadership. They may be grounds for some follow-up procedure if they decide to initiate, but I think this has not transferred the framework of the admissible discussion to parliament. The other is a matter of argumentation. Mr. Ademov, I suggest we hear your speech within eight or nine minutes and then report the questions about parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivanov, Mrs. Dimitrova! The proposed Employment Promotion Bill aims to support the dynamic flexible labour market in Bulgaria. Of course, one of the proposals also includes elements of labour mobility. In order for all of this to happen, measures are proposed that we can group them into five groups. I would like to comment on some of them because a large part of them were commented just now. Before that, I would like to say a few words about being surprised by the proposal for a new Employment Promotion Act. Dear colleagues, before 97th year there was a National Employment Service, there was no law that could regulate the labour market and public relations in this area in one way or another. In 1998, the Law on the Protection of Unemployment and Promotion of Employment was adopted, and in this Law they found both active and passive measures on the labour market. Then in 98th year this Law was passed, then unemployment in Bulgaria was many times more than now and that is why it was necessary in addition to the active measures and passive measures of labor, and the combination between them was actually the basis of this Law. Since 1 January 2002, the Employment Promotion Act has been in place, which regulates active labour market policies, because passive measures, including unemployment protection, have found a place in the Social Assistance Act and other laws regulating this matter. I would also like to say a few words regarding the financing of the proposed measures. In the reasons of the bill it is said that this measure, which was the subject of a discussion..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... You know that at the end of each calendar year the government adopts the National Employment Action Plan. Here the big problem is whether these traditional 73 million will be enough or not enough, because the active labour market measures financed by the national budget are extremely diverse. Here I would like to open a clamp and note that the recommendations of the European Commission to Bulgaria's National Development Plan have always been in the direction of focusing on the measures to support the implementation of the labour market of the long-term unemployed and those of the risk groups in the labour market, on the one hand, and on the other, to focus on regional employment measures. The regionalisation of employment programmes and measures has been reflected in the new role of the employment committees in the regional development committees. The new role of these committees has been highlighted here that every year, twice a year, they must provide information to the Employment Agency on what demand is and what supply is so that this transition from demand to supply can ultimately be supported by these regional employment committees. As regards the new measure to promote the mobility of unemployed people, the unemployed, including young people from specialized institutions or enjoying social services in the community of resident type and graduates of education, when directed by the employment offices to another local place, which is more than 50 km away, has been highlighted here. Dear colleagues, in order to talk about depopulation of settlements, including border regions, we must be aware that this measure will also cover no more than 1000-1500 unemployed, and if 1000-1500 people contribute to the depopulation of settlements, this means that we have no real idea of what is happening. Next, I would like to point out something to which serious attention has been paid in one of the opinions of the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. Here it seems that the active ones are intertwined with passive measures, because in the Law on Social Assistance in the first article it is also said that the purpose of this bill, i.e. the passive measures laid down in the Law on Social Assistance, is to assist unemployed persons, and not least in the Rules on Application of the Law on Social Assistance is said, if I am not mistaken, in art. 14, that unemployed persons can be helped to pay rents for municipal housing. Of course, the difference here is that there is an income test that gives a slightly different meaning, but between first and second readings, I think we can solve this problem. As for the millions mentioned, the active measures in the labour market from the national budget are 73 million, and these billion and 90 million are the entire budget for all the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Another is the issue if the employment measures of the Operational Programme are included. I would like to say one more thing about this and this. As regards the control over the use of the funds from the Operational Programme, Human Resources Development and the National Employment Action Plan, better efficiency can always be desired for the use of these funds. On the other hand, if this is about a lawful spending of these funds, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Employment Agency, the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" is double checked by the European Court of Auditors. There is no other operational programme that has been examined by the European Court of Auditors. Moreover, the Bulgarian Court of Auditors has ruled on the lawful spending of the funds. As regards the appropriate and effective use of the funds, this is a topic that is always open. More can always be desired and discussions on this could also continue in the budgetary procedure for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-08.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. On behalf of the importers, would you like one? No. Then we can proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the bill amending and supplementing the Employment Promotion Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 85 MPs: 80, none, abstention 5. Show the result in parliamentary groups. I will now tell you the questions about Parliamentary control at tomorrow's meeting on September 9th, Friday, at 11:00. 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will answer nine questions from MPs Willi Lilkov [[two questions]] ; Krasimir Yankov [[two questions]] ; Dimitar Dubov; Christian Vigenin; Zhelyo Boychev; Yavor Haytov; and Kiril Dobrev and Zhelyo Boychev and one question from the MP Yavor Haytov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer one question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov. 3. The Minister of Culture Vezdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, and a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev. 4. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov; and Willi Lilkov and Petar Slavov. 5. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer three questions from the MPs Atanas Zafirov; Zhelyo Boychev; and Yavor Haytov and Petar Ivanov Petrov. 6. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer two questions from the MPs Chavdar Georgiev; and Borislav Iglev. 7. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer two questions from MP Vili Lilkov. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of our Rules, delaying answers by seven days have asked: - Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova, to nine questions in writing by the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov [[Five questions]] , and Nastimir Ananiev [[four questions]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - Deputy Prime Minister for the Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Metena Kuneva to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Mariana Boyadjieva, and Ivan Stankov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to six questions with written answer from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov [[Five questions]] , and Peter Slavov; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova to a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov and to a question written by the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva to a question with a written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Dobrin Danev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova to three questions with written answer from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev; - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to three questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Hüseyin Hafuzov, and Durhan Mustafa, and to a question with a written answer from the MP Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to two questions written by the MPs Petar Slavov, and Nastimir Ananiev; - Minister of Culture Vezhdi Rashidov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski to ten questions with written answer from the MPs Svetoslav Belemezov [[eight question]] , and Nastimir Ananiev [[two questions]] . In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - three questions from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov and to the Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vasileva. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski and Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov will not participate. Due to the use of annual leave in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova will not participate. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva and the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. Due to an international commitment in advance, the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev, Minister of Health Petar Moskov and Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to participation in an international meeting in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will not participate. I'm adjourning today's parliament meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]]
