ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u1	Dear colleagues, please register. There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Go ahead, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal that we continue to examine the law on drug control and precursors, as there are only two paragraphs left, which will take no more than five or six minutes to pass the Law and then to proceed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u3	A counteroffer? I won't. I put to the vote the procedural proposal, which is a change in the order of the pre-defined points of our programme. Indeed, the paragraphs are not two, but four, which are supported by the Commission. We vote, fellow Members. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, allow me to make a procedural proposal. You are aware that the 23rd and 24th of May are not working days "May 24th is an official holiday. Our first plenary session will be on 25 May and because of the commitments that the MPs have in their electoral regions at the festival itself, I propose on the basis of art. 45, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that the National Assembly may change the time of regular sittings, on Wednesday 25 May, the plenary sitting instead of 9:00 to start at 11:00 and instead of ending at 2:00 p.m. Let's finish at 4:00. Is there a reverse opinion, a disagreement on the proposal so made? [[Heckling]] Committees after 4:00 p.m. I put to the vote the motion that the plenary sitting on 25 May, Wednesday, begin at 11:00 p.m. and duration until 16.00 p.m. They voted 124 MPs: 119, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. I remind you that today until 6:00 is the deadline for proposals on behalf of MPs and parliamentary groups under the programme for next week's plenary from 25 to 27 May inclusive. Mrs. Daritkova, come in with the second reading report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u5	Statements? I won't. We vote on the Commission proposal in favour of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 109 MPs: 104 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, Mr. Bajraktarov was so quick in his request for a procedure that we missed the opportunity to take an oath to Ms. Mariana Todorova, who was once again declared elected MP by decision of the Central Election Commission. This is: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 3236-НС/19 May 2016 on the appointment of elected MP in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia By Decision No 1358-NS of 10 November 2014 of the Central Election Commission after the election of Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin as a member of the Council of Ministers and on the basis of art. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code it is replaced by the next in the list of Coalition ABB " (Alternative for Bulgarian Revival) for the twenty-fifth electoral region "Sofia, candidate for the time during which she performs the functions of Minister, Ms. Mariana Georgieva Todorova. With the fact that Ivaylo Kalfin resigned from the National Assembly ex lege. 302, para. 2 of the Election Code has regained his authority as a MP and the powers of Ms. Mariana Georgieva Todorova, elected on the same legal basis. With a letter. No 650-06-34 of 18 May 2016 the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva informed the Central Election Commission that by decision of the National Assembly of 18 May 2016 on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria were terminated prematurely by the authority of the National Representative Ivaylo Georgiev Kalfin, elected by the twenty-fifth election district of Sofia, with the list of Coalition ABB (Alternative for Bulgarian Revival) after his release from the composition of the Council of Ministers. In the light of the foregoing and on the basis of art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code in relation to art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Art. 2 and Art. 2 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announces as elected MP in the Twenty-Fiveth Election Region of Sofia, Mariana Georgieva Todorova (respectively), from the list of Coalition ABB (Alternative for Bulgarian Revival) in the Forty-third National Assembly. Invite Mrs. Todorova to take an oath. Mrs. Todorova, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u6	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u7	Congratulations! We continue with the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Mrs. Daritkova..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u8	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 35: .............................................................................. In the other texts of the law, the words "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" and "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" and "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" and "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist" and "antagonist" shall be replaced by "antagonist"
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u9	Statements? I won't. The debate is closed. I shall put to the vote § 35 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 108, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u10	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u11	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission proposal, which fully supports the importer for the name of this division. They voted 107 MPs: 102, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u12	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u13	Statements? I won't. Anblok, we vote on paragraphs 36 and 37 by importer, supported entirely by the Commission. They voted 118 MPs: 106, against 1, abstention 11. The proposal is adopted, with this and the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ACCEPT THE REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF THE ARGUED AND ARGUED POWERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2015 I remind the Members of the National Assembly that according to art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria The Council of Ministers shall submit annually by 31 March to the National Assembly a report on the state of defence and the armed forces on which the National Assembly decides. The report is allocated to the Commission of Defence, which has discussed it and has presented us with a report. Before that procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u14	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to make an admission procedure in the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev and Deputy Chief of Defence Major Plamen Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u15	We are voting on the proposal for admission in this House. 100 MPs voted: 99, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The Quaestors, invite the guests. Go ahead, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are looking at one of the most important documents in the defence and security system and it is absolutely unacceptable for the defence minister not to attend the debate. I understand that the Supreme Commander will not come because his army is the last concern, but even if the Minister of Defense is not present, I don't think it's right. I propose we don't start the debate until the Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u17	There is no such procedural proposal under our Rules, Mr. Zafirov. Form some other...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u18	The Secretary of Defense should be called.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u19	The Secretary of Defense should be called. Since I can't give a break, since we've only worked 20 minutes, we start with the report, and I have a commitment to seek out the Secretary of Defense. Who's gonna fill us in on the report? [[Change of Presidents.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u20	You have the floor, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2016. At a regular meeting held on 14 April 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. 14 MPs took part in the meeting. The Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, the Chief of Defence Lieutenant General Konstantin Popov and Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova attended as guests. On behalf of the importers, the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev. He stressed that the report was developed on the basis of art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and was adopted by the Council of Ministers by Decision 238 of 4 April 2016. The report is based on the Program for the Development of Defence Capacity of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020 adopted by the National Assembly and the Plan for the Development of Armed Forces adopted by the Council of Ministers 2020. The vacuum in the strategic framework of defence policy after the expiry of the time period and horizon of the White Paper on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria since 2010, adopted by the Forty-first National Assembly, has been filled with their adoption. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Valentin Radev, Yanko Yankov, Vladimir Toshev, Neno Vlaikov and Miho Mihov. In their speeches, the MPs united around the following. The report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 confirms the continuity in defence policy, followed by the government in recent years and the shift of focus in the development of the armed forces from organizational-state changes to the development of defence capabilities through modernisation. There has been progress in strategic planning, both in the area of crisis management and in terms of priorities in building defence capabilities. The structure and optimal numbers of the armed forces have been preserved. It is noted that, despite financial shortages and the state of the arms and fighting equipment, the armed forces have carried out their mission tasks arising from their constitutional duties. It is also reported that the implementation of the 2013 Capacity Targets for NATO has been significantly behind schedule, which also influences the achievement of planned goals and capabilities in full. The reason for this, according to the MPs, is that the funds allocated to the implementation of these objectives for the three types of armed forces of the Bulgarian Army, which are the main carrier of these defence capabilities, are insufficient and remain at the level of about 47 per cent of the total defence costs. It was underlined that in 2015 the actual total budget expenditure for the Ministry of Defence amounted to 1 billion. 116 million. 374.3 thousand. BGN, which represents 1.3% compared to the estimated gross domestic product of 85 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Without spending on state-owned military schools, the Ministry of Defence budget accounts for 1,26% of the country's projected gross domestic product. The funds related to the immediate maintenance of the Ministry of Defence and the Bulgarian Army are allocated to: personnel costs What is positive about the allocation of funds is that the main part of them above the "93.42%" is being spent on the main policy of the Ministry of Defence "Defensive abilities" in which 731 million were spent for the main programme "Preparation and use of the armed forces." 85.4,000. BGN, which accounts for more than 67% of the expenditure under the programme. It has also been reported that as a result of successive efforts to balance costs, as required by Programme 2020, a partial approach has been achieved to these requirements of the Air and Naval Forces, but they are still experiencing problems with the performance of the main tasks of airspace security and territorial waters of the country. It became clear that the main type of armed forces Nevertheless, the Land Forces have successfully completed the certification of all their battalion battle groups and 80% of the declared formations. In the report, it is positive that, in the implementation of the mission, the support of international peace and security, groups and individual servicemen participated in more than 14 missions and operations abroad, with the total number of servicemen participating in the planned rotations reaching 420 people. In the implementation of the mission, the Armed Forces maintained 98 formations and participated in over 180 operations in support of the population with about 1256 soldiers and over 340 units of fighting equipment. In addition, the armed forces have provided logistical support, with part of the Land Forces and Air Force of the General Directorate of Border Police, in the security of our southern border in order to counter the migration pressure. The growth in the preparation of formations by the armed forces was also significant by 11.8% compared to 2014. 264 exercises were carried out in 2015 in a planned 287, which was implemented by 92%. At the same time, it is clear in the report that due to financial constraints, outdated weapons and equipment and the inability to maintain it properly, headquarters are forced to plan events mainly to maintain preparation with limited use of material parts. The latter does not result in a qualitative growth in the preparation of troops and forces and reaching the necessary capabilities. It became clear that in 2015, the armed forces' formations participated in 25 international exercises and joint preparations, which is a rise of 92%, compared to 2014. The operational and tactical compatibility with the Union forces was increased, which, together with the experience of participating in missions and operations abroad, is a bet to achieve the necessary compatibility with the Alliance's forces. The report gives a real assessment of the results achieved in achieving NATO's requirements for useability of forces. Land troops, despite the lack of funds, are reportedly able to meet NATO's requirements for participation in operations and missions outside the country's territory and to maintain formations and capabilities in operations for long periods of time. The Air Force and the Navy have seen significant delays in these two main indicators, and the causes are mainly rooted in the lack of funds for new weapons and equipment. The MPs believe that the Defence and Armed Forces Report is complete and comprehensive, well structured and presents an objective picture of the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. It reflects both what was achieved in 2015 compared to the previous year and the missed opportunities for improving defence management and achieving planned defence capabilities by the armed forces. It can be concluded that the report is a good basis for improving this management in 2016 and for overcoming the negatives in the development of the armed forces through the proper allocation of resources allocated to priorities and structures. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 10 votes for the Council of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u22	Please submit the draft decision as well. Here's the solution project. [[The President submitted the draft decision to the National Representative Valentin Radev.]] Under the Law, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u23	? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u24	Thank you. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to take charge? Mr. Zafirov. To inform you that the Minister is currently on his way to Varna, where 135 years are celebrated today by the Naval School of Nikola Vaptsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u25	You don't surprise me, Madam President. The Minister is usually absent from important meetings. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, today, as I said, we are looking at one of the most important documents in the defence and security system, namely the Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Another question is why this document has been aged for two months in the National Assembly and the extent to which the conclusions and findings in it are useful for the work of the institutions or rather some political effect is being sought. However, the report poses a number of problems in the sector, and I have basically drawn three conclusions. Firstly, the chronic financial shortage continues. The lack of money leads to the inability to implement a normal learning process in the Bulgarian army and thus the creation and development of new defense capabilities. Moreover, even the provided and guaranteed funds are not applied rhythmically, which further hinders this process. This, in turn, reflects on the state of the art combined with its aging and even in some cases, in recognition of senior servicemen, total inadequacy. These realities force headquarters to plan events mainly to maintain preparation and with limited use of the material part. There is a particularly noticeable finding: regardless of the financial shortages and the state of the arms and fighting equipment, the Bulgarian armed forces have successfully carried out their mission tasks arising from their constitutional duties. This finding would have been even commendable if it had not been accurate copy of the same findings from last year's report. And it was copied from the previous one and so on. That is, we are witnessing a trend, a dangerous relapse, even without money and technology, we are performing our duties and tasks or, more simply, so we can. However, it is not clear how far this compromise can go and whose account it is. And here I would like to ask the absent Minister a question: why, when the report is constantly talking about financial shortages and at the same time the delay in the utilization of ammunition and the untimely carry-out of the purchased ammunition by the buyers companies, which, of course, explainably creates risks of their storage, the non-release of the storage areas necessary for storage and other ammunition, the increase in the costs of military formations to carry out the process of their storage, why is it not seeking an attempt to implement these goods vigorously? On the contrary, it is common practice for materials to go directly for utilization without experience of realization, which, in addition to depriving the state of profit, is a prerequisite for creating corruption schemes. Next, it worries the turnover and the incompletion of our combat units. There, fellow Members, we have more than 3,000 seats available for officers. Literally a few days ago came out another startling fact and alarming figures for mass submission of exit reports caused by low levels of pay and lack of social security for servicemen. During the last quarter of 2015, a critical incompletion of staff of around 20% was reached in certain military formations. Admitting this truth, which I dare say, borders on a crime, does not relieve the Minister of Defense of liability. Who else, if not the Ministry of Defense, is responsible for this huge incompletion in the Bulgarian Army? Here the big question is: will there be political will this leadership to increase the social status of servicemen and not just to limit and reduce their social rights, as has been done recently? Particularly startling are the figures in the reserve, where the filling is only 21%. There is no necessary preparation of the voluntary reserve and of the Bulgarian citizens in defence of our Fatherland under art. 59 of the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Such preparation is needed for Bulgarian citizens with reserve status. Thirdly, but not least, recognised problems with public procurement. We've seen orders like this stop. Inspections by Inspectorate, by the Court of Auditors, the Military Prosecutor's Office has accused the Director of an official offence of the most resourcing directorate of the Ministry of Defence, namely the Department of Defense. We are witnessing interrogations of the Minister of the Prosecutor's Office. I'm sorry he's not here to say what they're talking about so often with the prosecutors. What does that say? This speaks of an unhealthy environment, corruption, which further influences the overall state of defence. The general conclusion I can draw from these findings that it is possible to question the trust of our allies in the Republic of Bulgaria as a reliable ally, all the more so that such an assessment is made in the report itself. I will now quote it: The lack of financial and material resources in the previous years has a accumulating negative impact on the implementation of NATO's 2013 Capabilities Goals. Particularly critical is the situation with those of them who are on their feet or who are approaching a time of readiness. Abandoning these goals, as well as delay in the construction and preparation of declared formations calls into question the trust of the Republic of Bulgaria as a reliable ally. In conclusion, if I were malicious, I would have to pull you out, gentlemen of the government, all the talk that has been spoken in the media, and this tribune, how quickly we have to get rid of the MiG-29 planes and how incompatible they are with our NATO commitments, and now we learn how useful and irreplaceable the plane is at this stage and how successfully we will modernise and remodel it. Allow me one detour. I sincerely enjoyed the last parade when the minister and commander-in-chief of the Bulgarian Army, who are otherwise sincere fighters with communism and the threat from the East, enjoyed the military equipment, which in most part is Russian-Soviet and acquired in those dark times, which, however, a large part of the Bulgarian society remembers with sadness and nostalgia, or as my esteemed professor said. Gechev that at the parade we saw a green paint. I won't talk about the three components of air, sea and land. I believe that the numbers laid down are eloquent enough, and the repeated characteristics such as zero funding, delaying deadlines, acute shortage of resources, outdated weapons and equipment and inability to maintain it in a proper state and many other such definitions make the picture sufficiently clear. The report raises many questions and almost no answers. Statistics and accounting start in it have shifted political analysis. The policy of nothing doing, at the expense of thunderous promises and still, unfortunately, I say, the ever more illusory investment projects, the policy I was talking about, the one I was talking about, is shameful and unworthy of the traditions and morals of the glorious Bulgarian army. That is why our parliamentary group cannot support it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Before I give the floor to the Vice Minister, honourable Mr Deputy Chief of Defence, according to our Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, you have the right to speak. If you choose, give me a handshake sign. Are there any who would like to comment on Mr. Zafirov's speech? Mr. Manushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zafirov, I listened carefully to your speech. Some of the things I'll agree with, most of them I can't, and I'll tell you why. We cannot, by looking at this Defence Status Report, which is for 2015, throw everything on this government and on this minister. This has been piling up for 25 years, not the last year and a half. I agree with the Minister of Finance, when we are now talking about modernization projects, which require huge funds, to say that in 25 years it cannot not have been put in place and now in two years to do everything. These billions, you know, the state can't separate them in two, three, four years. You can't! [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And this thing we were making plans in 2000, 2004, 2010, 2015, there was, you know, how tidy, everything done how to modernize the army in all these years. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] And it reached all of this, Mr. Stoynev, reached a reduction in personnel and the part where there should have been a lot of there wasn't. So we can't blame the Ministry and this department. The fault is common, of all the people in this House and in this country. However, I cannot agree with what the Bulgarian Army has shown at this parade as well. It wasn't a green paint, it showed a technique, a really large part of the fighting was Soviet technique, of it time, but there were new systems. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB. A line from the National Representative Atanas Zafirov.]] No, not just Hammery, there were Guardians, there were Cats, there were Mercedes. This technique, gentlemen, is important for the missions now carried out by the Bulgarian Army. Without this technique, the Bulgarian army in Afghanistan cannot fight and carry out its duties. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] When missions and tasks change, when there is a decision to send a contingent, as it was in Iraq, as it was in Afghanistan, there must be such a technique as to protect personnel, to perform patrol functions, to perform airport protection, and not to pay for tanks and fighting equipment there. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The Bulgarian army has weapons and equipment. The systems are neither obsolete nor used in the world, so we cannot say that it was a green paint. The T-72 tank is also... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u28	Mr. Manushev, I gave you a sign that the time for a reply is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u29	I'm sorry, but I just wanted to say that I don't agree with these things.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u30	Maybe in the form of a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u31	The Bulgarian army lives, you saw. This parade showed, and it had that effect. It had a positive effect mostly on the Bulgarian army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u32	Thank you. Second line? I won't. Mr. Zafirov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u33	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Manushev, I have great respect and respect for you, so I will be more restrained in my backrest. I'll start backwards. Would you deny the fact that at the moment the Land Forces of the Bulgarian Army do not have any modern armored war machine? Not one! We can talk here until morning on this subject. You can't disprove me. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Don't talk to me about these Hummers, I'm not talking about anything else. There's not a single modern armored war machine. This is the conclusion of an expert who was recently in your ranks, then I'll tell you who. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] He's competent enough. Second of all, you're doing a flashback. Without going into personal attacks, but perhaps if you didn't agree with what happened in the Bulgarian Army, you as a senior admiral should have resigned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u34	No, I was trying to help the other way around.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u35	Please, no lines from a place to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u36	Somehow you are conveniently forgetting that over the last seven years GERB have managed six. That's all on you. So let us be objective and correct for six years you manage and we have come to this level to read such reports on the state of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by BSP LB: "Bravo, Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Mr. Velizar Enchev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing a report prepared by the Council of Ministers on the state of the army and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, but I feel that I am reading a report which is not about the Bulgarian state and not about our region of the Balkans. According to the authors of the report, the focus is on sending military contingents abroad. On this occasion, I would like to ask, according to the authors of the report, does this mean that we are preparing a Bulgarian army that will be an expeditionary corps for missions abroad, some of which are in violation of international law, or are we paying for an army that will protect national sovereignty and our borders? Now I will focus mainly on Achilles' heel in this report. The Achilles' heel of the Bulgarian Armed Forces is the Air Force. This Achilles' heel in this report is a modest place, and that is perfectly understandable. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, which is not noted in the report, however, the Ministry of Defence announced a record deadline for submitting offers of nine days to buy ten new or repaired engines for MiG-29 fighters. The estimated amount was 30 million. lv. Minister Nenchev then announced that the intention is to buy unused engines, but not from the producer Russia, the Russian corporation MiG, but from countries of Western and Eastern Europe, without stating that even if they find such repaired engines, they cannot be certified, that is, they are unusable or if they are usable, it is at the expense of the security of our pilots. Minister Nenchev announced a tender for spare parts for the MiGs worth almost 4 million. BGN, and a third tender for the delivery of seven boxes of aircraft units, for which the Ministry of Defence will pay 10 million. lv. [[The speaker's speech occurs in noise and lines on the left.]] And one more thing that is not noted in this report, I immediately ask the most important question what is the connection between the engines sent to Poland for repair for MIG-29s and this new contract of ten engines? Why isn't that in the report? Is the information correct? very important what I will say is the information I have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u39	Mr. Enchev, I won't take up your time just for a second, please. Please, Mr. Boychev, Mr. Dobrev, let us observe silence in the Chamber and pay due respect to the fellow speaker. Continue, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u40	Is the information correct, my fellow Members, I turn to the Ministry of Defence and its representatives, the information I have from the manufacturer MiG-29 that the Polish factory has been seeking informal contact with the Russian MiG Corporation to obtain the necessary parts for the repair of the Bulgarian engines, but the Russian side has refused? I'm waiting for your answer. There are several interesting moments around these auctions. First of all, it is interesting why the Military Office is announcing an order, since until recently it has been persistently claiming that the problems with the repair of the fighters will be resolved on the basis of the interstate agreement with Poland? Here is the point that critics of the deal with Poland argued, and perhaps not without reason that the repair of the bikes will not be enough to restore the airworthiness of the fighters, and it is also probably true and leaked from Poland information that Poles cannot provide the entire nomenclature of items necessary for the return to operation not only of the engines of the MIG-29s. Such a thesis advocated, by the way, honourable colleagues from the Ministry of Defence, and the commander of the military aviation general Radev. In short, the air forces of Bulgaria are grounded despite this is the most important resource of our MiG-29 is another 14 years. The government report says there are problems with MiG-29's maintenance. I'm asking: why is he in trouble? Who created them, bearing in mind that the MiG Corporation does not refuse maintenance and delivery, has repeatedly maintained and confirmed its readiness to maintain the combat capacity of the aircraft park of the Bulgarian Air Force, as it does for two other NATO states However, the restriction, under the European Regulation No 512......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But because there is an external instruction to land the Bulgarian Air Force, more precisely the aircraft "MIG-29" to pay dearly and dearly to foreign countries to guard our airspace, you are blindly implementing this Western directive, more precisely than NATO, from Brussels. Imagine, fellow Members, if the millions we will now pour into foreign countries to guard our airspace to protect our skies, they would enter the maintenance of our fighters! These funds can be used for the modernization of our fighters under the Slovak version. The modernization made entirely with the equipment of the US companies. By the way, I won't tell a military secret if I say, honourable colleagues of the Ministry of Defense, that this option has been repeatedly discussed by the Air Force, but you haven't reacted. That way we won't pour money into other old fighters, we won't spend money on new infrastructure and pilot training, but we can by 2030, when the resources of these fighters run out, we can raise money and then replace the MiGs with newly produced fighters. For information, I would say that according to the 2015 report, no penny has been given to our Air Force. Tell me, how can modern fighters fly without maintenance? The last contracts since the beginning of 2015 were suspended and until there it was obtained with the legal support of MiG-29. This is entirely the responsibility of the Minister of Defense Mr. Nenchev. If it is true that the Bulgarian government is about to buy F-16, block 15, who are now 30 years old, then the same in 2030 will be about 45 years old, technologically and morally obsolete, and we will now have to invest a lot of money in them to fly, and we will also invest money in the preparation of pilots, training technicians, armaments and infrastructure change. Finally, I will draw attention to a section in the government report, which is in the field of geopolitics. When talking about external threats to our region, specifically about Bulgaria, there is a sign of equality between the situation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine, on the one hand, and the situation in Syria and Turkey. Dear colleagues, every military expert in this Chamber, there are admirals and generals here, will confirm that the situation in Eastern Ukraine, not to mention the calm situation in Crimea, cannot be compared at all to the bloody civil war in Syria and the civil war that led the Turkish government against the Kurdish people. These are two absolutely unparalleled conflicts both on their scale and on the degree of threat to world peace. As for me to conclude, the so-called Hybrid War, where there is a great deal of space in this report, I will only say that it is a very convenient but immoral alibi for the deployment of new NATO troops in the Baltic countries, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria against the so-called Russian threat. Therefore, I cannot support and will not vote for this report. Finally, I just want to say that tomorrow is the 13th anniversary of the day that this National Assembly, all of you, in the centre, on the left and right, voted for sending a Bulgarian military contingent to Iraq in violation of international law, which was recognised by former US President George Bush, by former military minister Donald Rumsfeld, even acknowledged by the former US Secretary of State Colin Powell, that this was a false war because of the misinformation of the intelligence services of the United States of America. I will only add: it was a criminal war, as it was in violation of international law. She put a heavy stain on the authority and prestige of the Bulgarian Army. That is why I have proposed a declaration on this issue, which, of course, the Foreign Commission, headed by the party GERB, will not submit to this National Assembly a declaration with a decision marking this anniversary and we promise to the Bulgarian voters that we will no longer use the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian Armed Forces, including the Air Force, the Navy and especially the Land Forces, which are preparing primarily for missions abroad, for dirty wars abroad, which cast a stain on the prestige of the Bulgarian state, on the authority of the Bulgarian Army and in fact, as I said before, are in gross violation of international law. Thank you for your attention. I hope for a reaction from the affected persons. Above all, we expect a response from the representatives of the Ministry of Defence. I repeat: is the information true that the MIGs Corporation was asked by the Polish manufacturer and the Polish repair plant to obtain the spare parts that it does not own, i.e. your contract with the Polish factory is not secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. With your speech, you have exhausted the prescribed limit for speeches by MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group. - What's the line? There are no lines. There was a MP who made a sign that he wanted to make a procedural proposal. He's gone. Are there any other Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? Mr. Radev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, the report, as well as what we have written in the Commission report, is true. There's continuity, there's consistency, there's enough factology. We think he's objective. This factology also gives the opposition a reason to remove from it things that the government can be blamed for the submitted report. Honourable Members, this report shall be made according to art. 23 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, as we have also said in the Commission's report. With it the Council of Ministers tells the public and us MPs, tells in detail, again I say in fact, what is the state of the Armed Forces. It is not because in 2015 it was or was not done necessary. It is because for the last 15, 20 years and more, this is how our armed forces have been built. I'd like to highlight a few things. First of all, if you have not paid attention to what has been said so far, honourable Members, the focus, as said in the report, is shifted from structural changes, from reforms to this word, which has become hateful for the servicemen, but also not only for them, for civilians and for all in the Armed Forces, and the emphasis is shifted to modernisation. To what extent this will be successful is another matter. The government of GERB, the second government, made this move, even though it was not in the government's programme, I would like to stress it. We do not say that national security is a priority, the security sector or the Armed Forces. However, the government has found funds and an additional 160 million have been allocated. lv. in 2015 and placed in the 2016 budget for the Armed Forces. That accent is very important! I said that many shortcomings can be found and that is how to make comments on the report. We, ourselves, in recognition of the opposition, in the Defence Committee, said that our speeches with colleagues from GERB were rather opposition. Yes, we, as MPs responsible for the state of the Armed Forces, have tried to find some weaknesses and point them out in this draft report that entered the Defence Committee to those present in the Ministry of Defence to be corrected. I will address only three things without opposition, but because of objectivity, because we need to know the state of defence and the armed forces. I'm going to focus on a few peculiarities, in our opinion. First of all, I think there's a certain imbalance. I'll show you the numbers. The balance between the types of Armed Forces is broken, and in the numbers, in the funding. 3.4 million for the Ground Forces, 33 million, rounding up to millions for the Air Force, 7 million. lv. ..for the Navy. It can be argued here whether the Air Force is very expensive armed forces, but the difference is 10 times! That can't be allowed! We at GERB did what we had to do. Now we're looking at three major projects. They were two brought to us, to the National Assembly, but we also insisted that the Land Troops report be entered. We pointed out this imbalance to the Minister we from GERB because we are ruling to keep it in mind. Secondly, there is one feature that we have also talked about in the Commission. We made an appeal, mostly to professional leadership, to be more objective. They cannot say that there is an average increase between 10 and 13% of the preparation, i.e. the teachings, and then many places in the report to say that there is underfinancing. We are all talking about this: there is not enough money, but how do we increase the preparation?! To our question and remark about this huge imbalance or at least seemingly untrue, we have received about an adequate response from the Ministry of Defense, which I would like to say to you. They said: "Yes, this should not happen because there is a lack of funds, including for personnel, as mentioned, there is an incomplete set. Whatever the opposition, and we have criticised, there have been a lot of criticism in this direction, talking about advice, they have helped. Somewhere there is said to be a 92% increase in teachings with the Union........ that has helped. They come here to our polygons and to the joint facilities and pay the bill. That is a good answer and I would like to emphasise it and be aware of it by all MPs. Finally, I will not agree again, as I did not agree, and when we were in opposition, with the word 'erosion', I think it was said to stop the erosion of military capabilities. Dear colleagues of the Ministry of Defence, who are standing in the last row, remove this word from the report! What erosion of what abilities?! It should be removed, not constantly emphasizing it! And that is, pay attention by modernizing, that is, by pouring money and buying with new funds. I'll give a simple example. Since 2010, even since 2000, there have been nearly 3% of gross domestic product, I have said it many times. This modernization, when it was also called modernization, did not help, that is, there is something else missing! Money is not enough to eliminate erosion, if the word is said properly at all! You need good management! It is also good to remove the word 'unfunded', which we all mention and talk about. There's no underfinancing! The state is underfunded. We are one of the not-richest countries in Europe, so both defence and the Armed Forces, including the Ministry of Defence, suffer exactly as other ministries suffer from such underfinancing. What does that mean? If we turn things around and say, for example, that GERB next year will do what is necessary and defence will be financed. Then maybe three or four billion more will be needed here. There's no money like that in the country! Saying that term because it's said at least twice, the whole report somehow makes it easier! Avoid this! It will always be underfunded, and not just ours! Probably the U.S. Army with 600 billion dollars, and dollars allocated to the army, they're also underfunded! Finally, I conclude that GERB, with this I want to praise the rulers, we found the forces with this I started to focus again on the Armed Forces. Today it is a good occasion that we are talking about them again and that there will again be two or three projects that will turn in the direction of compensation, I do not want to use the word 'not to finance', but to give funds to the Armed Forces. Both in the Commission and here we from GERB will support the report. I also call on all of you to support this report, which is objective, factual enough, good enough and shows the state of the Armed Forces of Bulgaria as it is possible at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u43	Any lines to Mr. Radev? Here you are, Mr. Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u44	Dear Mr. Radev, as I recall, I praised you in the Defence Committee for making a very objective statement. Now you're doing the same thing and using the case again to praise you. But I'm a little skeptical about the future of these projects you were talking about, and I'm going to keep this skepsis of mine. But I can't help but make a line for you, because you were tempted to show that you were talking and that you were doing something else. Here you are showing concern about the non-completion, and when we proposed the budget review of 10 million additionally targeted only for salaries and for the completion of the non-completion, you voted against! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u45	Second line, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u46	Madam President, Mr. Radev, colleagues! My line is this: we agree that the problems in the Bulgarian army have been accumulated for a long time, but nothing has been done in the last 6 years. In addition, the problem of the Bulgarian Army and the problems you highlighted with the funding are related to the absolute confusion and disharmony in the foreign policy of Bulgaria, economic policy and the Bulgarian army. And I'll give you examples. There is no money for the Bulgarian Army because we continue to support some strange missions in Afghanistan, here and there. Should we not finally answer the Bulgarian people why there are no Czechs there, why there are no rotations, why there are no Germans, why there are no Englishmen in these countries in Afghanistan? For what reason does the Bulgarian Army maintain these missions for so many years and spend tens and hundreds of millions of the Bulgarian budget instead of supporting the Bulgarian Army? Secondly, what is Bulgaria's foreign policy in the Middle East or Afghanistan? As a result of unjustified anti-Bulgarian policy in this area we lost the markets in the Middle East, our armed industry was thrown out of the Middle East. And I'm going to give you an example, we've simplified 2 billion. Iraq's $300 million debt to Bulgaria. $2 in cash, right? The two billion dollars with which we could have had two fighter squadrons and a missile complex went to the arms concern in the United States, which two weeks after we simplified 2 billion. Bulgarian dollar money, went to supply weapons to the Iraqi army. Good afternoon! Take care! [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u47	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I only take the floor out of respect for my colleagues and the debate because it's about the armed forces. I won't talk long. One main question, for example: who sent the Bulgarian armed forces to missions in Iraq? Did GERB send them? Why are you taking us back there? You're right, yes, what have we lost and what have we gained from Iraq? I agree with you, I've asked that question too, I'm talking economically, so I got up to make you a douche. Surely so, there are many other remarks that can be made, but we are currently talking about the Status Report. And with that kind of detours and going back, you're not gonna provoke me to go back and tell me what you've been doing through these governments, because we weren't then. I will finish only with this: I am sure and I have heard something such that the report is objective, the report is good. There are things that can be improved, but money is so much that we, at least GERB, will not take them from education, social policy or other to give them where we should not. We'll make a good balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u49	Mr. Slavov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor for a brief statement to say that, with my colleagues from the Reformation bloc, we will support this report, which has been presented to us today for consideration. We believe that it is objective and that it deserves real support because it addresses important defence problems that have been really implemented over the years and which, unfortunately, have been swept away and have not been solved. And I am delighted by what I heard earlier from my colleague Radev and my colleague Manushev, who showed how it came to this state at the time of our armed forces and what needs to be done to change things. At the same time, I am surprised by what I have heard from other colleagues in this House, who unfortunately have the feeling that they have spoken more as representatives of one or another manufacturer of weapons, or as if they are on a salary in a company for the production of airplanes and not Bulgarian MPs in this Parliament who should be excited, above all, about the interests of the state and then some companies or other countries that feel close to themselves. Because, colleagues, especially on this much discussed contract for repair of the aircraft engines in Poland, and in this hall we commented significantly cheaper it will cost the Bulgarian state to carry out this repair. Obviously, sufficient commitments have been made, including interstate guarantees, that they will be made qualitatively. Even I remember the minister getting himself into one of the planes to show his confidence in the quality of the repairs and so to speak with pleasure fly. [[BSP LB.]] I hear there's a colleague on the left. But I didn't see your minister get on a plane like this, try some repairs. When you do, then you'll replicate me. If you want to replicate me, there really is a procedure, colleague. I'd even be grateful if you replicated me, came here and explained to us over the years of surpluses 2005 - 2009, the Triple Coalition, when you ruled, when every year billions...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u51	This is not the subject of the Report. Let's get back to the draft decision on whether or not we'll approve the report. This is the act that Parliament should vote on.. The draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u52	Of course, I am returning to the specific Project, but it is important to know why these problems have happened and why their solution is not done in one year. So it's no coincidence that during the period of the triple coalition, billions were spent annually, supposedly for defence, but what did we see there after all? Some pink beemvets or some helicopters that turned out that winter couldn't fly. And that was the spending the way it was done. Instead of going for new defense capabilities, for compatible with our NATO partners, for aviation, for what we really need, and that's what I'd say for decades, they'd excuse me, colleagues, but they were going for crap, or going into corruption schemes. That's why they were going, too. I call on you to support the report, it is objective, it is asking a clear direction how problems can be solved, it makes a clear request that really reforms are needed in the army and so that most of the resource is not spent. As you know, 90 percent and more are spent on salaries, on current supplies, but not on re-arming, not on new abilities. They spend on maintaining extremely high prices of obsolete Soviet weapons, long ago both morally and physically outdated. For all particularly economic analysis shows that the acquisition of new defence capabilities in the long term will also be significantly more beneficial for the state. I do not comment here at all on the aspect of national security, which is actually the leading and important aspect that these new defense capabilities will really work for defence, but will not be relics as for the museum. Thank you, Madam President and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u53	- What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u54	Mr. Slavov, I will not comment on your free writings. They caused a slight reaction in the room. But I would like to tell you and advise you: do not engage on topics you are clearly not familiar with. First of all, your minister doesn't fly on a remounted engine. No one knows what engine he was on. There's an engine from Poland that's been repaired, is it new, is it old, no one knows it. So don't speculate. Second, one flight time on such a plane costs about 50,000. lv. Is it the Minister's job to eat from the time of one of the pilots to do his private PR? Be a little more objective and get to know each other. I will give you one information, perhaps you do not know it.. the occasion to question Minister Nenchev in the prosecution is precisely this deal with Poland, which you are very confidently defending here. During the debate in my speech, I told you: when the truth comes out, many of the MPs here will be ashamed of how they voted and what they talked about. And that truth will come out one day. You'll be one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u55	Second line? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You promised briefly for the beginning of your speech, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u56	I promise you an even shorter backdrop. Colleague Zafirov, I'm glad you're taking that line. With it, we were able to establish, as the law says, of undisputed two things: firstly, that the minister was flying; secondly, obviously he was on a plane; and thirdly, there were three things going on, this plane obviously had an engine to fly. So if you want, then we can continue the conversation on the sidelines to figure out what this engine is, and you yourself said it came from Poland. So four things are becoming indisputable, so we're making progress. The serious part of my back is this. I'm paying attention to how much a flight hour was worth. Let me remind you of this spectacular air show that you did during the Oresharski mandate. How many aviation hours were wasted back then to demonstrate something we all knew wasn't. We all knew that the resources of the planes were leaking, that there were problems in aviation, and you tried to show the nation how flourishing and prosperous the state of Bulgarian aviation is. Obviously, it wasn't like that, not to mention the huge resource you spent. It seems to me that you are rather making the free writings and distorting the facts than I am in the way I presented them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u57	Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A few words for the report. This was also the essence of my speech that this report reflects the state of the Bulgarian army and defence in 2015. Nice, bad. We have to say accept it or do not accept it. I don't know why BSP colleagues won't accept it. That's the condition. With some of the conclusions, I also disagree, but we can't even change them. I would like to say, not for my own sake, but for all the Bulgarian officers and generals who continue to serve all these years in the army, why I did not resign. Ladies and gentlemen, all those who wanted to remain loyal to the party, 90th year left the army, the rest of us stayed to serve Bulgaria. There is no way the Bulgarian officers and the Bulgarian generals can resign for accepting that Bulgaria is a democratic country and has political leadership of the army, and the decisions are taken in this National Assembly and by the governments. So when we talk about this subject, just humble yourself and bow your heads! We're all responsible for this condition! Not one party! The Bulgarian army has new armored machines. I must tell you definitely that 2011 started preparing our units and formations for war, but then they were only preparing for airport security and so on. In 2008, there were 8 billion surpluses. What did we give for the Bulgarian army? Nothing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u59	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Manushev, because you are replacing the debate in its political part, just to remind you that your government announced a few days ago an excess of 1 billion. 800 million in the first three months. You're back for 2008?! You're back and 1990! Well, we're commenting on that. We comment on the situation according to the report of the Bulgarian Army. And if the report is objective, that doesn't mean we have to agree to this condition as good. You yourself appreciate that you're not satisfied. And you've been working in another period, and you've been in charge, and you know what the condition is now, according to the report you're reading, because that's your authority to read reports now. You were in the army when you were in charge, and you know what the condition was then. The big question, the political question is: we accept without debate because these are findings, or we want us, as opposition, to challenge in you the responsibility of the government to ask the Council of Ministers, your Prime Minister to have more money for the army, to have funds that will lead to a better state of the army, and not to agree only with directives and regulations of partners. Well, partners may want the Bulgarian army to be weak to invite them to guard our airspace! As we establish the state of the army, tomorrow you will ask the partners to guard our maritime border as well! Is that where you want to bring the Bulgarian army? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u61	A hole, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u62	Mrs. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov! No, we don't want to do that. That's why these modernization projects are, and that's why 160 million are separated, and they're going to start this year. With most of the things you said, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u63	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Mr. Radev presented to us the text of the draft Decision on the adoption of the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. I recall only the operative part: The National Assembly decided: it adopted the Report on the State of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. We are voting on the draft decision. Vote 112 MPs: 84 against 28, no abstentions. The decision's been made. Next item: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ADVANTAGE THE COURT OF AUDITORS TO carry out THE CENTRE FOR CITY MOBILITY (EAD) - GR. SOFIA There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance, which will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u64	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on the Award of the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of the Centre for Urban Mobility (CSC) - Sofia Sofia, No 654-02-35, submitted by Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs on 26 April 2016. At a meeting held on 12 May 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. In its reasons, the importers point out that the activities of the organization and control of public transport and the construction and maintenance of parking places, which are carried out by the Center for Urban Mobility. Sofia, are extremely important to the citizens of the capital. On the basis of a contract with Sofia Municipality, the company realised revenues from the sale of transport documents, renting out parking spaces, subsidies from the state budget and others. The major socio-economic importance of the activities of the Center for Urban Mobility is indisputable. Sofia. At the same time, scandalous revelations about the way the company conducted public procurement... In this sense Mr. Boychev proposes to exercise the necessary control through the audit by the Court of Auditors. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 16......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Project! DECISION entrusting the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance in the financial management of the Centre for Urban Mobility. Sofia for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Instructs the Court of Auditors to carry out an audit of compliance with the Financial Management of the City Mobility Centre (CSC) - the city of Sofia. Sofia for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016 2. The audit period shall be from 1 July 2016. by 31 December 2016 3. The deadline for submission to the National Assembly of the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be until 31 January 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Boychev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have submitted this decision on the basis of art. 7 of the Law on the Court of Auditors, which enables the National Assembly to audit companies that have 50 and over 50 per cent state or municipal participation. In this case, we have asked the subject of such audit to be the Center for Urban Mobility. Sofia. In part of the reasons Mrs. Stoyanova read, the importance of this company for the capital city became clear. I would just like to inform you that on the basis of a contract with Sofia Municipality of the Center for Urban Mobility. Sofia is entrusted with all control over the implementation of the transport task in Sofia. The company pays with the transport operators in the capital and controls their activity the bus company, trolleybus, tram and metropolitan in Sofia. I have the official reports, unfortunately, for 2014. I do not yet have the certified reports for 2015, so I will work with these numbers. The revenues from public transport are over 220 million to have an idea of what the volume of activities they carry out is. At the same time, the company is entrusted with the parking organisation, the hourly parking in the capital city. Nearly 17,000 are places whose range is in the part-time parking areas. The revenue collection control and activity shall be carried out by the Centre for Urban Mobility. By collecting all the proceeds from the SMS, from the parking tickets, from the service subscriptions, I would like to tell you that for 2014 the amount is over 20 million. lv. Over the years, we have seen numerous signals about irregularities taking into account, especially in this case, hourly parking and SMS parking as an element of this company's activities. Separately, the Centre for Urban Mobility is entrusted with the issuance of the transport documents and their sale. You know that Sofia Municipality also receives a subsidy from the state to carry out this service. This puts even greater responsibilities ahead of us and obligations before us to make it so that there is no doubt about the legality, the appropriateness of spending these funds. We saw another scandal at the Centre for Urban Mobility, which led to the resignation of the Deputy Mayor of Transport of Sofia Municipality and from there to the resignation of the management of the Centre for Urban Mobility. I would like to remind the National Assembly that the Parliamentary Group of BSP LB has repeatedly proposed that an audit be carried out specifically at the Centre for Urban Mobility. Unfortunately, these decisions have not been adopted, these initiatives have not been adopted. I say that, unfortunately, because we would have saved ourselves this scandal if the Court of Auditors had entered and had done its job to find, in my opinion, a number of weaknesses in the activities of this company. I am therefore pleased that the Budget and Finance Committee has supported our decision, this decision. I think that one of the main obligations that the National Assembly has is to meet both its responsibilities and public expectations. We have no reason to ignore such scandals with great public interest, such activities that have an extremely socio-economic significance for the capital city and an effect on the capitalists and to pretend that nothing has happened at the Centre for Urban Mobility. I would appeal to the majority to make sure that the Court of Auditors does its job. I know that you have a number of concerns, and for good reason, about what the Court of Auditors will find in this company. What I have as information is based on my experience in Sofia Municipality, it shows that there is hardly a public procurement conducted by the Centre for Urban Mobility, which is not corrupted and I wish with the decision of the National Assembly today and the audit of the Court of Auditors to open this bag or this black hole, which has turned the Centre for Urban Mobility and little by little everything to be brought to light. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u67	Will you introduce us to your Decision Project, as the Commission has editorial changes? Or, if you support this to the Commission, then that's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u68	It is important for me, as one of the importers, to reach a decision of the National Assembly. I heard from colleagues that there they had a discussion, a conversation with the Court of Auditors. I take it that's how you recorded the Project for a solution is correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u69	He pleases you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u70	Satisfying us. Moreover, it covers all the activities of the Centre for Urban Mobility. The only thing we have as a commentary on by our fellow importers is the reasons why he should be elected within this time limit. That's what I'd like to hear in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u71	I hope Mrs. Stoyanova will clarify that. Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Colleagues, the debate is open. Mrs. Stoyanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u72	Honourable Members, the Budget Committee has decided to propose that you vote on giving the Court of Auditors one such audit for the Centre for Urban Mobility. I would like to say why this decision was taken by the Budget Committee. And I would like to say why, until now, BSP proposals for such decisions, the Budget Committee has opposed. For me and for the Members of the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly has five audits to issue and they really need to be significant on a subject, in essence, so that the idea and meaning of the Court of Auditors can be fulfilled as an aid authority to the National Assembly. The commissioning of checks on various municipal companies, no matter how large they are, cannot and should not be one of the main activities of the Court of Auditors, because Sofia is always the center of the events, but here we have 264 municipalities, colleagues of these municipalities, each one of them could ask the Court of Auditors to enter and audit different companies. That is why we have so far rejected it, because the National Assembly has still entrusted the Court of Auditors with audits concerning policies, audits resulting from the conclusions of which legislative decisions can be made. Why, though, have we decided this time to accept the proposal, albeit quite modified? First of all, about this because I want to respond to what Mr. Boychev said that, you see, we have concerns about what will come out of the audit of the Court of Auditors. On the contrary, honourable Members. I call on you to vote on this because we have no concerns about what will come out of the Court of Auditors' audit. There are no violations that bother us. Mr. Boychev refers to various publications and scandals, which are the so-called media scandals and offers this check. Let a body go, although it is not its main activity, and see if these scandals are provoked by false claims, by facts that are distorted or really in this company there are any problems. The importers of the Decision had asked in practice to verify all public contracts and, if we are to be correct, the authority that is conducting a public procurement inspection is the State Financial Inspection, that is to say, it is not within the prerogatives of the Court of Auditors at all. The Court of Auditors has other functions and other types of audits it carries out, so we, in order to show, not only that we are not afraid, but to show that we want, insist that there be transparency in each of the activities that are carried out in different parts of the management, either at municipal level or at municipal level, we have proposed to support, but to change the subject of the audit, as is the case under the Court of Auditors Act, as the Court of Auditors may carry out an audit, namely an audit of compliance in financial management. The audit of compliance in financial management also includes checks on public contracts, but in addition to checks on public contracts, it includes and follows the legality of an undertaking's activities in all its directions. And this is, in fact, a guarantee that we will have transparency in what has happened in this undertaking, as well as a guarantee that the Court of Auditors is obliged, if it finds weaknesses in one direction or another, and not only in public procurement, to make recommendations to address these weaknesses, in which it is in fact also the sense of asking the Court of Auditors to audit, namely, to address weaknesses in this activity, including if this removal of weaknesses requires a change in certain legislative documents. I once again call on you to support this draft decision, precisely for the audit of compliance of financial management. And why is the deadline reduced? Well, in order to really be an in-depth audit in all these directions, it is simply not possible to carry out in five years' time, and it is not necessary for anyone to do so, because if your goal is for those weaknesses to be recommended to be removed, it does not need to be demonstrated by audit for five years. Enough is this two-and-a-half-year period, which includes the last date of June 30th to see really clean, transparent what is happening and if anything is at all wrong with this company. Well, that's it. Support the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u73	- What's the line? Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am very calm after Mrs. Stoyanova's speech. She has no problems with this company. This company is perfect, all orders are conducted properly, all money is spent properly, capitalists pay for all of this. And I don't see why, Mrs. Stoyanova, the Budget Committee has supported this proposal? However, Mrs. Stoyanova, Center for Urban Mobility (CTA) EAD is the successor of the company "Century for Urban Mobility" Ltd. It happened two and a half years ago... What's it say?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u75	Re-certification of the trading company.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u76	Re-re-re-re-arrest. That's right. But before that, Mrs. Stoyanova, Center for Urban Mobility For your information, to date, I will say that to date, by the company "Parkings and garages".....................then, unfortunately, there is no living CEO who died naturally................................................................ Doesn't that give you the idea that there are vague things going on in the company, that scary and treacherous things are going on? Why do we have to cover for him for five years? Why are three mandates of three different national meetings " Forty-one, forty-two, including when we were in government, these parliaments failed to audit the Centre for Urban Mobility?! Why are you cutting the deadline? What prevents to see not five, 15 years should be seen what happened in this company because Sofia was robbed by these companies. However, because the Court of Auditors, when it sees how these companies are merged, when it sees what properties and what assets have entered from one of the other companies and how these assets have been used afterwards, then it will become clear to you as MPs, and also to the capital public, and to the Bulgarian citizens what robbery is involved. Of course, the last order of 240,000. lv. is the least for which Parliament may be referred, which shall refer to the Court of Auditors, but because of that 240 thousand. lv. A deputy mayor went away, went home respected by a fellow MP absolutely unfounded......................you expelled him from parliament, gone quite rightly a five-member Board of Directors. And in this five-member Board of Directors, to be calm both from the left and right colleagues, there is not a single representative of BSP, nor of reformers of SDS, DSB, and all who participated in the management of the Municipal Council when this company was established. That's why you're afraid, dear colleagues! So you want not five, not two, if you can do a six-month audit. If you are not afraid of anything, when you are calm about everything that has happened, let us do it for five years as much as the Law gives. Let, apart from the Court of Auditors, enter the State Financial Inspection Agency to see what happened there, because Mayor Fandakova started to say she was in agreement two months ago. And until then, why didn't you agree?! Because if you don't reveal the deals in this company, they will reveal them on the air, will reveal them on bTV, will reveal them on Channel 3 - all media, they will walk and reveal them. Therefore, honourable Members, I call on you to support this proposal as it has been done by the importers. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u77	The importer supported the Commission's version.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u78	Excuse me, Madam President, the importer is one of the importers. The importers are seven people and we have signed the Project Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u79	Does this mean that I have to give the seven to present the Project? [[Noise and lines.]] I personally urged Mr. Boychev to introduce us to the draft decision on importers. He said he was in favour of the Commission project, wasn't he?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u80	And that he's worried about the deadline that he doesn't agree with the deadline.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u81	I take it you're making an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u82	Another offer, that's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u83	We are following the Commission's draft decision and you are proposing what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u84	Instead of January 1st 2014 it will be January 1st, 2012 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u85	Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u86	Colleagues, I'm really asking you to put a point on this company once so that the people can have the people and the citizens, and guests, trust in it, because each of us pays a blue and green zone, each of us pays BGN 1.60. for a ticket to the city transport, each of us wants to use the parking lots made by the Centre for Urban Mobility. To date, unfortunately, in Sofia, the Centre for Urban Mobility has not built a single parking space, has not bought a single bus, has bought a single trolleybus and has given no lev in the Metropolitan. All these things that are happening in Sofia are happening thanks to European funds and the Centre for Urban Mobility has no merit. He only collects the money of the centenarians and spends it in an opaque way that's what he does. Let's say with this decision, which we will adopt today, let's say "Stop" to the thefts in the transport, say "Stop" to the hidden government and know every director and every deputy mayor of Sofia Municipality of Transport that he will be under the direct supervision of the Bulgarian Parliament when he allows himself to abuse public funds. Thank you. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u87	First line Mr. Kirilov, second line Mr. Bayraktarov, third line Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. [[(BSP LB: Where is the money? Where's the money?]] Colleagues, please, no calls from the auditorium. The distances aren't that great, but somehow it doesn't work for us to have a debate between the diagonals. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u88	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Svilensky, I would like to make a number of adjustments on the factual side of your speech, but I will not have enough time. That's why I'll limit myself, I hope, only with the most important. The death of the managers of the Parking and garages. I stress only to the Parking and garages. It fell sharply in 2008. When the restructuring of the two companies started for the first time: the Parkings and garages and the Sofia City Transport Company. As you track down the staff of the governors, I ask you, especially in the personalities and belongings of the governors, we do not need the Court of Auditors, we are satisfied with the Trade Register. Let's look at the names on the Trade Register. I can guarantee from 2003 to 2008, but the Trade Register can bring us back further. I don't remember if in 2008 you were a municipal councillor, but next to you colleagues I remember that they were, they were involved in the restructuring debates, so I will not go into explaining the logic of this restructuring. However, I will recall the following: the two companies do not have almost any special assets. If they have real estate, they barely have any real estate. Yes, the peculiarity of these companies.. in terms of one is the management of parking spaces and the other is the management of the financial flow in the area of transport. I recall: this company is not like that company that you were a member of the Board of Directors of [[the President signals that time has run out]] , i.e. the property of Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u89	Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u90	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Svilensky! I will also address Mr. Kirilov: this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria! It's not the Sofia City Council! Please! Again, this is the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria! It's not the Sofia City Council! There is a full consensus to support the implementation of this audit. I can't understand what you want after all. You want a conversation and you want to piss us off at the end, like I don't support it. [[(Shout and lines.) Awesome.)]] I'll tell you why. Because Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is right that these five audits should not be cracked for verification of municipal and clearance of political accounts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u91	They shouldn't be used.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u92	Yes, you're right, Madam President, I'm taking a note, but I think it's more understandable to Mr. Svilensky. Let's stop talking and move on to the vote, because time will run out and you will finally say, "Here they are, again, they did, not to be accepted." There is consensus, there is understanding, I call on you to stop talking and move on to the vote to carry out this audit and ultimately to see what the situation is.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u93	Third line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u94	I really support what Mr. Bayraktarov said. I think it's unnecessary...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u95	You're making Mr. Svilensky's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u96	Yeah. It is unnecessary for Mr Svilenski to politicise the subject from the stands of this National Assembly and to say various suggestions that have neither been proven nor are likely to be proven, I hope, but to wait for the objective audit of the Court of Auditors. I am tempted to ask Mr. Svilenski why he is throwing accusations at us as a majority that so far these proposals have not been accepted for the audit of the City Movements, when only a year and eight months ago they had the opportunity to vote in this National Assembly such an audit in the way they wanted to do. What I got the line for is an extension. I believe that we are making a decision by which we are auditing the activities of City mobility and not of any companies that previously existed, invaded and formed City mobility. So just when City mobility has been formed, the term of this audit is also proposed since then, namely 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u97	It's a hole, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you are right and I agree with you. I also said that in my speech, and the forty-first, and the forty-second Assembly did not find the strength to carry out an audit. I said it! This is not a reproach only on you or only on us, it shows that the interests in this company are likely to find ground in most of the Bulgarian parliament then and now I think that this thing should not happen. I agree with you that forty-two didn't do it either. As for the term again, do not just look at when the legal form has changed. This company is the successor of all companies and has to be verified in the five-year period. Mr. Bayraktarov, I don't understand what his line is to me. Only that it is a municipal company: change the Law so that the Court of Auditors does not check municipal companies on a proposal from Parliament and we will not make such proposals. However, this company, Mr. Bayraktarov, manages a budget of 300 million a year. Mr. Kirilov, I always thought you wouldn't get that low. But let's talk about the real estate of Sofia. I have been a member of the Board of Directors of the Sofia Estates, Mr. Kirilov, and honourable colleagues, for which I have given my immunity in this Chamber to Mrs. Tsacheva in order to verify everything that has happened in this company. However, Mr. Kirilov, as a member of the Board of Directors, I have implemented a decision that you voted on. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] I have executed a decision by the Sofia City Council that you have signed with the majority of municipal councilors! [[Applause from BSP LB.]] If, Mr. Kirilov, I hadn't done that thing, then you should have replaced me. So I have done my job for what Sofia Municipality has sent me to your face as a municipal councillor in both your types and as an advisor from GERB and as an advisor from BSP. [[(Applause from BSP. Replies:]] So I can talk more. Because, Mr. Kirilov, because I have time, Mrs. Tsacheva, I will allow myself to say the cases are going well. And you know what the expert says? The expert gave up and said: "I am ashamed to defend these assessments, which were imposed on me to give them such that the directors of the Sofia Estates would be condemned. "
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u99	Let's not, uh, coworkers...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u100	I'm done here, fellow Members. This thing I wanted to tell you... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u101	Let's get back to the solution project.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u102	This thing I wanted to tell you when it's over. Regarding the restructuring of the company. Yes, Mr. Kirilov, you're right that after 2008. I was a municipal councillor then, and I have defended that these companies should not be merged, yes, since then they have stopped the killings of directors. However, in the period 2005 - 2008 the mayor of Sofia Municipality was Boyko Borisov! It wasn't Georgi Svilensky. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u103	Mr. Delchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, from the Reformation Block, we will support the decision, as proposed by the Budget Committee, because we believe it is high time for a full audit to be carried out by the City Mobility Centre. There is too much information in the public domain with regard to illegal practices carried out in this company and it is high time to see whether contracts which are not profitable to the company or not have been concluded have been concluded. Let's find out the answer to that question. It is time to see whether contracts have been concluded with energy companies, with fuel suppliers that are not profitable for the company, so as to damage Bulgarian citizens and taxpayers. It is also time to understand the answer to another question: have public contracts been awarded in a way that is not correct, which is not lawful, which provides for manipulation, or has not been awarded? There's a lot of questions. I hope that the Court of Auditors will carry out a really thorough examination, check all financial documents and come up with a decision that is not political, a decision that does not condemn one or another political power, but simply says whether the law is respected or not, so that we and Bulgarian citizens are both calm that the Centre for Urban Mobility will be well managed. After all, the last decision of the Sofia Municipal Council was to raise the price of the ticket from 1 BGN. At BGN 1.60. Something against which we have declared ourselves. We need to know whether the City Mobility Center company deserves this extra money, which will come out of the pocket of Bulgarian taxpayers and before loading the taxpayers, whether the company itself should not be optimized, whether illegal practices should not be eliminated in the company itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u105	Replices to Mr. Delchev? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Alexander Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I think we have gone beyond the debate on the draft decision. Different topics have been affected since 2005, 2006, 2008, tickets have been heard...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u107	Don't bring us back! Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u108	I wanted to get back on the subject that we have gathered for and the decision that we need to vote on. Colleagues, on behalf of GERB's group, I am in a hurry to say that we will support the decision tabled by the Budget Committee to enter the Court of Auditors in the Centre for Urban Mobility for the reason that there is no doubt in the Chamber, not one of our fellow MPs, not one citizen of the city. Sofia, that the Centre for Urban Mobility is not spending money in a transparent way. In recent years since the City Mobility Centre has existed as such a company, I can tell you that the company is indeed now extremely transparent. In recent years, both the State Financial Inspection Agency (AFFI) and the Court of Auditors on various occasions, on various parts of the company's activities have entered the Centre for Urban Mobility. Moreover, every year the company is audited by independent auditors, each year it passes through the balance sheet commission of the Sofia Municipal Council, where they are members...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u109	The Court of Auditors will say that, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u110	Madam President, it is important that I finish my speech. Why is it important? Because in these balance sheet committees every year, who participates? "Coworkers from every political force. The Centre for Urban Mobility is therefore constantly under the sanction of the Municipal Council. As far as orders are concerned, each order of over 500 thousand. BGN, is approved by the Sofia Municipal Council again. Each long-term material asset over 10,000. lv. approved by the Municipal Council. This could be one of the most transparent companies right now. As regards the specific occasion for a public procurement, which is required to carry out an internal inspection, there is a decision of Mrs. Fandakova to do and check the public procurements for one year back. A one-year period since you are looking, as said by colleague Kirilov, some personalization. If someone somewhere has allowed themselves to disobey the law or not to spend the money properly, they will get their responsibility. The worst, and because of what I don't understand, you are opposition and naturally you have to look for holes. It's your job, it's part of democratic society and parliamentary life. What I cannot agree with you is this: because the company itself has a very important strategic function for the city. Sofia, has great social importance, very great social importance, works with many citizens, it is called to provide public access, environmental, modern transport, the worst you are doing right now is using epithets such as a black hole. This is a very wrong policy because it violates the trust of citizens in this company and any other. Our task as politicians and statesmen should be exactly the opposite of creating trust in these institutions. How do you expect us to violate trust in this institution, use these epithets and then expect citizens to feel satisfied with what they earn, pay and ride in this transport? That's all I can't figure out. I suggest that we support the decision, that it is really to see that no one wants to cover up any or all activities in any way. I call on all my fellow Members to support this decision as soon as possible. I believe the Court of Auditors will come up with an objective finding. Of course, if it has its recommendations, it will give them and, of course, the principal and the company itself will comply with them. Please don't demagogize more than this tribune. Thank you. [[Single applause by GERB, shouts: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u111	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is... [[Relations from willing speakers.]] Colleagues, before this procedure: as there are more willing for speeches, the legislative part of the plenary to continue until the debate is completed and the draft decision is voted on. Is there a reverse opinion? Children from kindergarten are waiting to congratulate us on May 24th. We are voting on the procedural proposal............................. the time to vote on the draft decision. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ananiev, would you like to speak? Mr. Ananiev is giving up. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. A editorial change was made to the draft of the Budget Committee by Mr. Svilenski instead of the title and the operative part of the draft from 1 January 2014 to 30 July 2016 and to read from 1 January 2012 to 30 June 2016. We are voting on Mr. Svilensky's editorial proposal. They voted 104 MPs: 43, against 45, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u112	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I see that there is a movement in this House and I am not sure that everyone has been able to vote, on the one hand. I have one request: however, let us not forget that the Centre for Urban Mobility has not been put in an empty place. He came from somewhere, inherited something, and if there was some vicious, rotten foundation, why don't we clean it up in connection with that check that's about to be done? There is nothing more natural than to start two years before the creation of the Centre for Urban Mobility, before re-registered it is actually a matter, not a new company, and to see how it started out.................. if there is something really hanging from it like a stone on its neck and will be useful for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u113	Is that a procedural statement, Mr. Ermenkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u114	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u115	Oh, now that's procedural. It's a re-vote. They voted 107 MPs: 47, against 51, abstentioned 9. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the draft decision to the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance as Mrs. Stoyanova proposed. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Dear colleagues, on the eve of May 24 "The Day of Bulgarian Education and Culture and Slavic Literature, we have children from the All-day kindergarten." Breznik. They will greet us with songs and verses at the National Representative's Club. Because we won't get a chance to start right at 11:00 p.m. with parliamentary control, I announce its beginning at 11.15 p.m., so we will extend it to the end so that we can hear the performances of the children at the Club of the People's Representative. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u116	Honourable Members, the sitting continues with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 13 May 2016 There has been a request from the National Representative Vili Lilkov to Ivelina Vasileva, Minister of Environment and Water, concerning concrete actions which Sofia Municipality has undertaken for the development of mineral springs on the territory of the municipality and the concrete results of them. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 27 May 2016. Written answers for service by: - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on a question from the MPs Atanas Petrov and Petar Slavov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Meglena Kuneva on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the MPs Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the MPs Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Petar Slavov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Environment and Water Ivelina Vassileva to a question from the MPs Georgi Bozhinov and Chavdar Georgiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - Minister of Health Petar Moskov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Vili Lilkov; - Minister of Agriculture and Food Dessislava Taneva on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Economy Bozidar Lukarski on a question from the National Representative Miho Mihov; - Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Rumyana Bachvarova on eight issues by the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Ms. Meglena Kuneva is not in the hall and we begin with the answers of Krasen Kralev First will be asked by the MPs Yavor Haytov and Borislav Iglev about unclear status by the state administration of a sports facility on a national scale. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Since Iglev is absent, he is in his constituency in Simeonovgrad to help his constituents because of the floods that were there, but out of respect and respect to the Minister of Sports and to all sports actors we have not postponed the issue. Dear Minister, in the city districts of Hope, Tolstoy, New Iskar, together with the villages around Novi Iskar, Freedom, Verbnitsa, there is a single sports facility and it was built about 30-40 years ago. This is Lokomotiv Stadium. In general, the stadium has its headquarters at 23 Rozhen Boulevard. From my meetings with sports actors and residents on the territory of these capital districts, the population there is more, as I said, of 200-300 thousand inhabitants, I understand that recently there is great interest from residents to revive the old sports glory of the Sports Club. I am informed that over 1300 children, notice, have been officially mapped into the United Sports Clubs and that there are over 400 children at the Football Club. Apart from that, there is also a sports school where they study and train about 300 children. In connection with these conversations and meetings, a number of questions are being raised, which I believe are of your competence and are: whose property is the stadium of Lokomotiv and the plots; what are the possibilities of Joint Sports Clubs and Football Club Lokomotiv Sofia 1929. These questions are raised by the fact that support on a base is invested on clarified property and any more serious donor or investor in an unexplained right of ownership refuses to sponsor sports clubs. Despite the problems mentioned above, I am impressed by the fact that so many children are organized and sports, which is important for the growing generation, and it corresponds to part of your government management program, which you are a member of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Minister Kralev, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u119	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Haytov, thank you for your question. Lokomotive Stadium and its plots located in Sofia, 23 Rozhen Boulevard are public property properties provided for the management of the district governor of Sofia-city according to the Public State Property Act No 07-910, dated 23 March 2012. In this sense, according to the current Bulgarian legislation, all actions in the management and provision of the property are carried out by the district governor of Sofia-city. Notwithstanding the entity managing the site, the State through the district managers, a particular office or municipality, the Law on Physical Education and Sports and its Implementation Rules provide for several opportunities for providing sports facilities and facilities to sports organisations. As a rule, they are foreclosure, concession, public-private partnership. Opportunity for free provision is set out in art. 95 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Physical Education and Sports, namely provision for free use of licensed sports organisations, disabled people or sports clubs, members of them. There is also the possibility under art. 50, para. 3 of the Law, under which the State and municipalities grant free of charge, in whole or in part for a certain time sports and tourist sites and facilities to the institutions in the system of pre-school and school education, higher schools for the realization of activities related to physical education, sport and tourism and training and competition of students and students under conditions and by order defined by the relevant authorities. In this sense United Sports Club Lokomotiv and Football Club Lokomotiv "Sofia 1929" could be awarded for use with the stadium "Lokomotiv" in case they meet the above requirements. In the new Bill, which, you know, has already been put into coordination between the various ministries, the procedure for granting free use for a long period of time has been extremely detailed. It also clearly and accurately mentions how this stadium can be obtained for free, so we rely on your support for the Law. The sooner he is adopted by the National Assembly, the easier it will be for these procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u120	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Haytov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The finale of your response was encouraging. He also corresponded with the situation of today, it is festive for sport and football in particular, as we know that today is the benefit of the great footballer Hristo Stoichkov. But when we are talking about a sports facility in the district of Hope and about the situation in which Sports Club is located "Locomotive" and Football Club "Locomotive," Mr. Minister, we must clearly realise that the state must help this company, although the possibilities are not endless. Because there are a number of legends of Bulgarian sport, of Bulgarian football. These are Atanas Mihailov, Rumen Goranov, Boycho Velichkov. The fact that thousands of children have already been mapped and played in the Sports Club is extremely joyous, as well as in the Football Club Lokomotivius, because by realizing that they, when organized in this way, are actually the real fight against crime and drug addiction and other vices in the modern world. As for the support that you expect with regard to the new Sports Bill, which is about to enter into the plenary, I am convinced that when it enters, you will turn to us to detail these things. But the most important thing I think from my point of view is that we need to make sure that all companies, all business operators and business people have the mood, have the power, have the opportunity to invest in sport. Because, as I said earlier, this is also the real fight against crime, these are our best ambassadors, namely the athletes, so we expect to continue this conversation and help both the city railwaymen, the Sports Club, and all the other competitors, especially the growing generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Haytov. Mr. Minister, would you like to take advantage of the right to the doppelganger? You have the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u123	Dear Mr. Haytov, I would just like to remind you that there is a Regulation No 2, which can be applied to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In providing a specific project, we could financially support the reconstruction of sports infrastructure. Of course, we don't have unlimited opportunities. You are well aware of the Ministry's budget, but until the adoption of the new Law we could help to some extent reconstruct some of the playgrounds there. So we expect a project on which our Commission will rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u124	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear [[to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education Meglena Kuneva]] I say that I respect Mrs Deputy Prime Minister, although you have no respect for Parliament, for parliamentary control, and that is precisely why I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. There is a timetable for parliamentary control. He's been dealt. You're the first to answer. You come to Parliament on time here and put the chair in a embarrassing position because you have the pleasure of talking to journalists, which you believe is your primary task during parliamentary control, not to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u126	Please let me have the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u127	Yes, it's for you, Mr. Chairman. Because you shouldn't have made any shifts, but you should have called Mrs. Kuneva to come in here, which is her duty during parliamentary control. It is true that this government neglects it, it is true that it hides, it is true that the ministers are gone, it is true that for them this is an annoying job...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u128	Mrs. Kuneva is in the hall, as you can see.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u129	Yeah, she came in late after her time to start answering. So please! As President of the National Assembly at the moment, and if you want to hand over to the President who is elected President, let him discipline the ministers, because parliamentary control is the highest form of control over the executive power and this neglect is the least offensive to the people who have chosen us, and among other things, not polite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I'll take note. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are on the eve of Bulgaria's most celebrated holiday "May 24th" "Day of Slavic writing," of Bulgarian education and culture, a holiday that comes from the soul of the Bulgarian people. On this day we pay tribute and thanks to the Bulgarian teachers and teachers, to the scientists, to the Chitalishte actors, to the creators of art and culture, to the artists, to all the Buddhists and guardians of speech and literature. With the creation of the Slavic alphabet by the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and with the whole - souled activity of their students and followers, in the 19th century, from the Bulgarian state and from the Bulgarians began the historical path of the new civilization. Bulgaria is at the heart of modern Europe. Medieval Bulgaria radiates cultural and literary dignity, along with the most significant then countries on the European continent. Thanks to the Bulgarian alphabet, the Cyrillic alphabet, Bulgaria is in history and in time and will always be there because, apart from us, 270 million people write in Cyrillic. This is our people's huge contribution to world civilization. The Bulgarian alphabet is recognized as the third official alphabet in the European Union and the Bulgarian language is recognised as one of the official languages of Europe. Today we need our daily care for the development of education, science and culture, for the revival of the spirit of Bulgaria. This is our responsibility to the future. It is a well-known fact that the most promising investments are those invested in the development of education and research. And in Bulgaria, higher schools, scientific organizations and cultural institutions are fighting not only for their development but for their survival. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria often talks about modernization of the country, but he means mainly construction. And real modernization goes through science and through accessible, quality education. This can make the Bulgarians competitive. We from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria and stated that instead of reducing the funds for education and science, our alternative is to provide sufficient funds at least 4 per cent of the gross domestic product, aimed only at state and municipal general education and higher schools and universities. Bulgarian education has proven traditions and they are the most valuable experience the state needs to protect and develop. Again, we will repeat that the reforms expected and implemented in the field of education had to be done with consensus, with the true involvement of society. But in the new Preschool and School Education Act, you, ladies and gentlemen, have not accepted any of the essential proposals made by the opposition and representatives of the professional circles. The legislative solutions for financing private schools, for self-education, for closing of secondary schools, for uncontrolled autonomy, for transferring responsibilities to municipalities, without providing the necessary resources, are a risk for the education of Bulgarian children. It destroys the unity of the educational system. It will limit access to quality education for more and more poor children. We oppose your attempts to replace the social nature of Bulgarian education, to limit the opportunities of young people to receive and develop their knowledge, regardless of their property status and residence. Many questions also raise the application of the new Law. Two months before its entry into force, the public still does not know the majority of the state educational standards through which it will act. A storm of public discontent caused the new curriculum. It reached the innovative decision the students in the first and fifth grade to study new programs but without new textbooks. We are relieved that the teachers will deal with this circumstance, but no one thinks of the students and does not tell us whether they will manage without textbooks. More and more problems await us, and all at the expense of the students and teachers. That is why we from BSP left Bulgaria submitted a Bill and insist on delaying the entry into force of the new Law by one year, which will at least reduce the risk of mistakes and severe consequences for our education system. The growing illiterateness and social exclusion of children and students is extremely worrying. The share of young children and young people left the educational system in Bulgaria was 12.9%. While there is a sustainable trend in the European Union to reduce this indicator, there is a deterioration in our country after 2011. And the reduction of school dropouts is a major indicator in the Europe 2020 Strategy. The national objective of reducing it to 11% by 2020, will not be achieved in real terms. We see that from now on, the government has shown its inability and lack of willpower to meet the mandatory European standards. This is also evident in the government's successive actions for a sustainable reduction of education funds by 0.1% per year. If someone's list of figures looks petty, I would say that in order to provide comfort for themselves, the government will sacrifice the chances for development of at least 6 000 Bulgarian children. What chance is this for the future of the Bulgarian nation?! And in its second term this government humiliates Bulgarian scientists with salaries at the level of minimum, with reduced budgets for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the scientific institutes. And the breath of air that can give opportunities for development of the scientific community in Bulgaria through the Operational Program "Science and Education for Smart Growth" and through the Fund "Science Research" crashed in the bureaucracy of the Ministry of Education and Science. We appeal to Bulgarian scientists with a call to protect their dignity, the results achieved, to seek the truth and the best for their realization, despite the difficulties encountered, because the progress of society depends on it. BSP left Bulgaria seeks and offers active solutions in the field of spiritual development and culture, because the crisis of the spirit is deepening in Bulgarian society. 85% of the contemporary Bulgarians have difficulty reaching the current, bright achievements of national and world culture because of poverty. Access to culture and creativity is blocked. We are here to improve income policy, to consistently increase the average wage and in creative institutes. We support the need to adopt and implement a National Strategy for the Development of Arts, Culture and Creativity. This strategy should allow a smooth increase in the funds from the gross domestic product for the "Credit" function in the state budget from 0.6% in 2016 to 1% in 2020. This will ensure both the achievement of high criteria in the creative directions and the right of access to culture of every Bulgarian citizen, including the most remote places. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we Bulgarians continue to fill with positive energy the feast of the holy brothers Cyril and Methodius and give our recognition to all who have dedicated their lives to the development of our culture, education and science. The Bulgarian Socialist Party since its establishment 125 years ago realizes and appreciates the contribution of the Buddhists of Bulgaria. Happy is the feast of all who, with the speech and the Bulgarian writing, with their work and creativity continue the work of Cyril and Methodius! Long live Bulgaria! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause and singular shouts "Bravo!" by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva. Parliamentary control continues with an answer to a question to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. He will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Slavov about opportunities to provide financial support to registered sports clubs in the neighborhoods and small settlements by laying down appropriate criteria in Regulation No 1 for financial support for sports activities. Mr. Slavov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! My question is related to the contribution of small sports clubs and the opportunities for financial support for their activity. The reason is that 6 kilometers from the district center is located the village of Topolchane. For decades with hundreds of young people in different types of sports, fighting, sambo, judo, this is where the respected sports specialist Todor Marchev works. It has taken its first steps and achieved their first successes in the sport 37 Republican judo champions, 4 medalists from European championships. Here they receive their most valuable lessons in sports craftsmanship, but also for the joy of winning champions from the Youth Olympics in Beijing in 2014: Bozhidar Andreyev. Despite his proven opportunities in the field of high sports craftsmanship, coach Marchev still chooses to devote himself exclusively to mass sports, to wide activities with children in which he educates the magical, well-known and to you the love of sport and the victories in him from an early age. Despite the undoubtedly high successes in the various championships registered in 1997 and licensed Judo Sports Club Topolchane (Judo) provides the participation of its alumni in the various tournaments from the national sports calendar exclusively with the funds of the parents of the children athletes. Taking into account the immense importance of early systematic pursuit of organized sport, without bearing unnecessary illusions, as we are aware of the extremely important to you, Dear Minister, priorities in state sports policy, but also by appreciating your highly effective efforts to restore the foundations of successful, proud of our unique national sport traditions, I turn to you with the following question: what measures will you take for fair support with the funds of small neighborhood and rural clubs licensed under the Sports Act, so that their activities will develop and attract more and more young athletes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u134	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. For an answer, the Minister for Youth and Sports. Mr. Kralev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Slavov! Annually, the Ministry of Youth and Sports approves programmes for financial support of sports clubs, in line with the main priorities and objectives of the government's "Stable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria" for the period 2014 - 2018...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The programmes financed activities of sports clubs on the basis of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and in accordance with the requirements of Ordinance No 1 of 8 May 2014 on financial support for sports activities by the Ministry of Youth and Sports. The right to apply for sports club development, Sport for children in leisure, Sport for children at risk and Sport for children in kindergartens and sports have all sports clubs, members of licensed sports federations meeting the requirements of the program, and there are no restrictions and different requirements for sports clubs in large and small towns. The Sports Club Development Program in 2015 supported 882 sports clubs financially. The Ministry has provided a total amount of 6 million. Seven hundred and BGN 559. Of the financially supported nearly 20% are sports clubs from small settlements. There are fewer carded athletes who participated in state championships than the number of players required by the program. The minimum required number is 10 carded athletes. It is also one of the clubs to which the Bulgarian Federation of Judo did not provide an assessment of their activities in 2015, which is why it is not subject to review and evaluation by the Expert Committee. The "Sport for children in leisure time" programme is about creating conditions and opportunities for participation of children in free sports activities in their free time with a view to improving their health and physical activity. In 2015, 218 sports clubs were financed under the same Programme. In order to implement the Programme, the Ministry has provided a total amount of 1 million. Twenty-seven thousand. £780. From the financially supported sports clubs 48, i.e. 22%, are from small settlements under this Programme, which I quoted. The Sports Programme for children at risk. The Sports Program for children at risk. The Sports Program for children at risk. Of these, approximately 12% implement projects in small towns up to 34,000 inhabitants. The Sports Program for Children in kindergartens is funded by 60 clubs. Of these 19 sports clubs, approximately 32% implement projects under the Programme. It is apparent from what has been said so far that the programmes in force under Ordinance No 1 on financial support for sports activities by the Ministry of Youth and Sport provide funds for all sports clubs across the country, respecting the necessary requirements for applying without limitation in the size of settlements or population numbers. In accordance with art. 18 of the Law on Legislative Acts, the Ministry of Youth and Sport will examine any proposal for specific texts that would improve the current Ordinance. That is, if you have any suggestions we are ready to look at them, to improve the Regulation so that really funds can be distributed if possible even more fairly. We have tried all the time to be objective, not to share clubs depending on the number of residents, but depending on the results of their activities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u136	Thank you, dear Minister. For a replica, the People's Representative Ivan Slavov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for the answer I received, which also informs Bulgarian sports lovers of important circumstances related to stimulating the attitude towards sport. Thank you for being able to be your partners in the approach to the development of the Law on Sports. Of course, we'll all be like this in this room. Thank you for having updated the Regulation at the end of October last year, which regulates the conditions for funding the athletes in Bulgaria. I think that, in partnership, in good faith and the desire to provide the proper base of those involved in sports, we can achieve together much more, including in support of clubs, for which I have raised a question today, such as that of the village of Topolchane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u138	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Dear Minister, you're entitled to the doppelganger. You won't take advantage. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. With this, the current questions to you are exhausted. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable colleagues! Allow me on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Political Party GERB on the eve of the most beautiful, most Bulgarian holiday to address the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian teachers, the people who work from the heart in the field of Bulgarian culture. Dear Bulgarian teachers, we all know how noble and how highly professional your work is. We address you in gratitude to everything you do every day for the sake of the future of Bulgaria. We address you with gratitude for the emotion, energy, labor, creativity and initiative of the Bulgarian teacher. Political Party GERB and the government of Political Party GERB stands closely behind all your activities and your initiative. We are the people who are ready to support every good and noble cause in the name of our children being more prepared, more sustainable and better citizens of our homeland. Dear cultural figures, this holiday is no less bright and important to all of you, because only together, with good education and well-working cultural activity in our country will we achieve the results, we will achieve that national self-awareness that we aim for. We the MPs of the Parliamentary Group of GERB are ready to work in your name and in the name and interests of all Bulgarian citizens, but especially in the name of our young children. With respect to all of you and to your case we wish you health, happiness, luck, many professional and creative successes and good conditions for realizing all your wonderful ideas. Happy holiday of the whole Bulgarian society! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u140	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. Parliamentary control continues. Up-to-date questions will be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs Minister for Education The first question she will answer is from the National Representative Metodi Andreev and he is about the unexplained delay in launching the procedures under the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" for the period 2014 - 2020. Here you go, Mr. Andreev. As you come to the stand, Madam Deputy Prime Minister, I inform you that the issue under No. 5, addressed by the National Representative Ayhan Etem, has been postponed, in accordance with the rules of our Rules and in today's control, you will not answer it. Mr. Andreev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u141	Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! According to the 2016 indicative annual programme for providing grants under the Operational Programme "Science and education for smart growth" of the Ministry of Transport, there are two procedures that lively interest research institutes, higher schools, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and a number of other public and private scientific organizations. Both procedures are under Priority Axis 1: For both procedures, the indicative period for submission of the project proposals is the same and the date 22 February 2016 is indicated for the initiation of the reception. As you can see, at this moment this date is long overdue. The deadline for the adoption of the documents was set at 22 July 2016. However, until now, neither of the procedures has yet to begin the public discussion of the application guidelines, as provided by law. We do not know when the application documents will start. In this regard, Madam Minister, my question to you is: First, when will the application guidelines under Procedure 1 and 2, respectively, be announced for public discussion for centres of excellence and for centres of competence? Secondly, when will the adoption of application documents start on the procedures cited above, and what will be the deadline for this reception? Thirdly, what is the reason for the delay already made compared to the date originally announced for adoption of application documents under the said Operational Programme? And fourthly, has the management body under the said Operational Programme received accreditation? If not, when is he expected to receive?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u142	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u143	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I start answering the current question, I would like to turn left to my colleagues and say that I have been here since 11.00. I am sorry that Mr. Ermenkov is currently not in the room, which called for your arrival on time. I'm always here before the time to answer questions. Please don't make this a problem that doesn't exist. I would like us to work in mutual agreement or at least in a spirit of respect. And now to Mr. Andreev's question. The criteria for the selection of an operation under the procedures for centres of excellence and centres of competence were adopted on 22 and 23 October 2015 by the Monitoring Committee of the Operational Programme. The total budget of 350 million. lv. is provided by the European Regional Development Fund and by national co-financing. Those criteria are currently published. The criteria are available, Mr. Andreev, on the website of the Operational Program and are the basis for the development of the application documents under the two procedures that you mentioned about the selection of projects. The procedures themselves are in an advanced stage of preparation. With regard to the introduction of the new regulatory requirements governing state aid relations and regulations, this is a very important element in the procedure, it was necessary to coordinate the criteria for selecting operations and the guidelines for applying them with the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission. This process also required additional procedural and technological time. The process of coordinating the application guidelines for both procedures with the Ministry of Finance and the European Commission is in the final phase and they will be open for application soon. It should be noted that the managing authority has a commitment to ensure the quality of the valuation process. In this regard, a procurement procedure and a technical assignment for selecting evaluators of the project proposals to be submitted under both procedures have been developed and meet the world standards for the assessment of scientific projects. Idea projects for both types of centres will be evaluated by independent experts selected by public procurement in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The aim is to limit the relationship of valuers with the applicant organisations to the maximum extent. There have been such scandals in the past. We plan to use the European Commission's expertise to conduct the most objective selection of profitable projects possible. The selection of project proposals will be carried out within the deadlines and conditions laid down in the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. Among the evaluation criteria are the capacity of research organisations, the reality and importance of their development projects. Between June and July this year, the Managing Authority will conduct a broad information campaign, which will present in detail the guidelines and how to apply for both procedures. On the basis of existing regulations, the contracts with beneficiaries for the implementation of approved projects and proposals are planned to be signed at the end of 2016 and at the beginning of 2017, when their implementation should also be started. In the last three months, the delay has been caught up, there has been a delay, I admit that. In preparation of the documents for the systems, the Directorate-General for Structural Funds and International Education Programmes of the Managing Authority, by the national accreditation body and the executive assessment, is in the final phase. We have approval from them. This is big news, however, which I do not want to report until the procedure is complete. It is also planned to hold a meeting of the Monitoring Committee on 2 June, which will discuss and adopt the criteria for selecting five new operations, which will be open for application by the end of the year. So really on this topic expect good news.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Andreev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u145	Dear Minister, the question was asked almost a month ago and then the criteria were gone. I already know they've gone out, that they're there, that's right. Thank you for making up for this delay, because you yourselves understand that people who are professionally involved in science rely very much on this opportunity that the European Union is now giving us. With these measly amounts that the state grants in the Fund of Science and the way in which this money has unfortunately been drained in the past, the really small, miserable budget for higher education, this is an opportunity that the European Union gives us to compensate with the creation of genuine scientific centres of competence and excellence that will enable our scientific staff to develop science and make it a factor, an actual factor in the European Union, to be able to have unique scientific developments. At least the university I represent has such ambition. Thank you. I hope that you will really do everything possible to make this an hour sooner become a reality, because in fact people are looking forward to starting this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u146	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Here you go, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u147	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Andreev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that your concern deserves you to be the first to say that at 25. 26 we will announce the new stage of the Research Development Strategy. This was also a forgotten and delayed topic. In addition, after months of non-productive efforts, we have finally managed to turn them in a productive direction and we have the Rules for the Work of the Fund - Scientific Research - which is on the Ministry's website. I think with these few things I'm telling you about the Programme, about the Research Fund and the Research Strategy, these are three things that, within 100 days alone, the Ministry has managed to present as a result of very concentrated efforts. And one more thing I would like to say to you: I would very much like to, and I hope with your help that we can make the budget for both science and education grow and that this is one of the foundations of our agreement. Mr. Andreev, I'm counting on you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u148	Thank you. The next question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva is from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev concerning orders forcing lecturers and researchers to leave their homes in Student City, b. No. 58. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! My question was provoked in my capacity as a Member of Parliament from the Twenty-third Election Region, in whose territory are the higher education institutions, in particular the Student City and Student dormitory with No 58, which is in the capital of the Student Chairs and dormitories, whose state-owned company you are the principal. In March of this year, the Secretary General of your Ministry sends an order to the Rectors of higher education institutions and to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, on whose basis a procedure for termination of contracts is initiated, on the basis of which scientists and workers live in the student dorm bl. No. 58. I would like to remind you that by order of the Minister of Education of 1998, a student hostel bl. No 58 is based entirely on the needs of the faculty of the state higher education institutions and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and there are lecturers and researchers as perhaps compensation, not perhaps, but as compensation, you know, the low remuneration of the researchers and lecturers and partly in the solution of their housing problem. The reason to terminate the lease contracts with which they live in this dorm is the age of 35. I would like to remind you, Mrs. Kuneva, that we also have European legislation, which I am convinced you know well, and we have already had a change in the Law on Higher Education, in which these texts for 35 years have been removed as discriminatory. This case had a very broad media response, was the subject of a number of publications and programmes. My question to you is, what and what commitment will you undertake so that dozens of families of Bulgarian lecturers, Bulgarian researchers do not literally stay on the street if the provisions of the order of the Secretary General of your Ministry are met?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u150	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva. Three minutes to answer the question of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u151	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's how it is. 1998, as you said, by order of the then Minister of Education it is determined to use as a hostel bl. No. 58. I saw some of the people living there. By order of the Minister of Education in 2004 are established rules for management and use of bl. No 58 for universities in Sofia, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Education and Science and the University of Students, in whose capital the hostel is. In accordance with art. 4, para. 5 of the Ordinance on the use of student dorms and chairs in student dorms can be accommodated persons from the scientific and teaching staff up to 35 years old, as you said, but not for more than five years. That is, the two conditions are given cumulatively. In the current rules for management and use of bl. No 58 such text is missing. On the basis of the provided data, it is apparent that the majority of residents in the building are more than 10 years old and almost all are 35 plus. In the last six months, meetings have been held repeatedly between representatives of the home councils of bl. No 58, residents in the bloc, Ministry of Education and Science, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Student chairs and dormitories. At the same time, the Ministry of Education and Science's Internal Audit Unit carried out an inspection of the Student chairs and dormitory offices of the Ministry of Education and Science on the process of accommodation of the tenants in bl. 58 for expenditure incurred and revenue received in the company during the management of the block for the period 2014 to 30 June 2015. The verification found irregularities in the existing rules on management and use of bl. 58 and recommendations are made to take action to change the rules for management and use of bl. 58, as required by the Ordinance on the use of student dorms and chairs, and to review the right of accommodation of persons living in bl. 58, which should comply with the requirements of the Ordinance on the use of student dorms and chairs. In March 2016, letters were sent to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the 13 higher schools that accommodate lecturers in the bloc, informing them of the recommendations of the audit report. I stress that we require information on the measures taken to implement the Regulation to be met by the professors staying in the dorms. Answers have been received at present from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and from ten higher schools, which inform that they have taken the necessary measures and actions to terminate the orders for accommodation in bl. 58 persons who do not meet the requirements of the Ordinance on the use of student dorms and chairs. In relation to the numerous meetings held with representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, universities, Student chairs and dormitories and their proposal to change the Regulation on the use of student dorms and chairs, it is proposed that a working group be formed at the Ministry of Education to discuss the possibility and necessity of changing the Regulation on the use of student dorms and chairs. Representatives of BAS, the Council of Rectors, the National Representation of Student Councils and the Ministry of Education are also scheduled to participate in the working group. At the same time, it is recommended to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and Higher Schools to wait for changes to the Ordinance before taking the necessary measures and actions to comply with the regulations for the accommodation of persons of the scientific and teaching staff in bl. 58, that is, at the moment, we are maintaining the situation as it is, without tension, in the hope that we can make such a distribution of dorms that correspond to the spirit and letter of the legal act. After all, there are other, even younger people who expect to be accommodated there. My Secretary General has had no other option but to implement the law, so we continue to work on this subject. So far, there's no tension in bl. 58 and you can tell your constituents that we are doing everything we can.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u152	Mr. Boychev, a line? The People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev has the floor for a reply to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. I am pleased that the meaning of parliamentary control is partly filled with your public commitment to terminate the initiated procedure for the removal of people who live in this student dorm. Unfortunately, Assoc. Nikolai Dodov, who was one of the most active, I don't know if you understood, from this public committee, died until these events took place. That's life! However, my question would also like to be looked at in greater perspective, Mrs. Kuneva. As a person working on both European issues and as a person in your capacity as Deputy Prime Minister with quite broad opportunities, you and we all declare a strategy for the development of higher education, science in Bulgaria. You know that this cannot happen if we do not guarantee a decent social status for teachers and researchers. I think that the state has been in debt to them for years and if we have only one particular case here in one student dormitory, it seems to me that the state should consider this issue and there are mechanisms, including mechanisms under European funds, to take a very serious step and to show a very serious commitment to the people who have dedicated themselves to it, unfortunately, in Bulgaria not a well-paid occupation at all. If we want to have a competitive economy, if we want to have achievements in science from now on, to be proud of, so that we count on you to have an initiative so that the state can build a material base and such a type of opportunity in which the social status of people engaged in scientific activity can be at least properly satisfied. It's obvious to tell you, I'm embarrassed even to quote, I asked people when I met them, what their wages are. I guess you know them. It is simply embarrassing to say that an assistant at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences takes 440 BGN, assistant chief It's just that these people don't have any other kind of perspective if we throw them out on the street and the state doesn't commit in any way to giving them better and more decent conditions for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you don't want the back. We move on to the next question, which is asked by the MPs Yavor Haytov and Petar Slavov, about the introduction of training in a common legal culture in secondary education. Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, although you are Minister of Education and Science, you are an alumni of the Law Faculty, so I hope this issue is quite clear, quite accurate and correct to you. Perhaps in the spirit of the actuality of the questions it was more appropriate to give an answer to the situation created around the exams of Bulgarian adults, but this will probably be further. I've asked such a question, such a question to you. Now, in essence, the Deputy Prime Minister, more and more Bulgarian citizens are raising the issue of the importance of introducing an education in a common legal culture in school education. Within such an subject students in an accessible language could successfully study the fundamental rights and obligations arising from the Constitution and the international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. In addition, the achievements of the contemporary democratic state, the principle of separation of authorities, the rule of law, the equality of all persons to the laws of the country, civil control, and the powers and obligations of the institutions of the state should be made possible. The introduction of such a subject into secondary education seems particularly necessary in the current situation of migratory pressure, unstable geopolitical situation and threat of terrorism, when different finite groups in society whether, due to ininformation or maliciousness, decide to take the law into their own hands and take self-deprecating actions which call into question the authority of the state, and we hardly need to stop in detail why such actions are extremely dangerous. And my specific question, Madam Vice Prime Minister, please answer, and it is: do you share the above-mentioned thesis of the need to introduce a subject of common legal culture in secondary education within which to study the fundamental civil and political rights, the foundations and principles of the democratic state and the functions of the institutions? And if this attitude on your part is positive, in what deadlines could some such intentions be realized and such an initiative to become a fact and the Bulgarian students to receive a dignified and authoritative education by law as a whole and not at a later stage to get acquainted with the Penal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u156	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. That's an interesting question. Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Haytov, Mr. Slavov! In essence, the brief answer is, of course,.................................................................................. And not just because I graduated from law school, but because I believe this is the direction and not just me. The Ministry's team believes that with what I'm about to tell you in a moment you'll see how we've developed this conviction of ours. In general, the education related to the legal culture takes place in the following guidelines: first in the educational subjects of the field of public sciences "The Man and the Society", "History and civilization", "Philosophy", "Geography" and "Economics." A novelty in the curriculum is one of the great values of the new state educational standards, according to which we call them, is the introduction of a self-sufficient subject of public education, which will be studied in the 19th and 19th grade, when students are on the threshold of adulthood and already have both a sufficient maturity and a practical need to realize and reflect their role as full legal and active members of society. The educational content is organized around six major topics, directly related to the general legal culture: Citizens, politics and democracy, Citizens................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. These topics address all the accents you have put on the main civil and political rights, the foundations and principles of the modern democratic state, the functions of the institutions. Next, as you note, the new Law gives additional opportunities for civic participation in school education. In addition, it creates the possibility, within the framework of the expanded training, to study educational subjects, i.e. elective and optional, to build on the foundations laid in general education, by examining the topics in question in more detail and by providing a higher legal culture for students who have shown an increased interest in civil education issues. Of course, to what extent these opportunities will be realized, defining the needs of students and the school community. In addition to what follows from the new school law, the Ministry of Education and Science is looking for additional forms for an effective extension of the legal culture of the students. You're right, I'm firmly behind this. In 2014, the Ministry and the Supreme Judicial Council concluded a co-operation agreement, implementing which judges, prosecutors and investigators conduct hours at school and organize a visit of students to the court and prosecution. We are always open and welcome proposals for initiatives that help achieve the objective set out in the Law: acquiring competence to understand and implement the principles of democracy and the rule of law, human rights and freedoms, active and responsible civic participation. If I have to teach such a lesson, however, I will start from civil law, because the moment the child gets on the transport, along with his parents, is already in a civil-law contract, as long as, of course, there is a card or a ticket is pierced.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The line, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u159	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Mrs. Minister! I am really glad that your team is aware of the importance of introducing such an education in a common legal culture. The point of the question that we have asked with colleague Haytov is precisely such that it is understood that in fact the foundations of a democracy, of a civil society begin from there: to know the working mechanisms of a state, of the functioning of the institutions, of the fundamental rights of citizens, of their rights and freedoms and of their mechanisms, of course, of defending and defending them. Indeed, the subject that you have pointed out to me sounds wide and comprehensive enough to be able to cover all this matter. Here, if you allow, as a recommendation, to suggest that it may be good to think, apart from the theoretical framework of teaching how institutions function, how the state is set up, to create a purely practical focus of everyday life, what you have talked about. The example of the tram is undoubtedly appropriate, but there are many other examples of our everyday lives that show that the legal culture of our compatriots is not particularly high and instead of looking for frequent dispute settlements that arise between them, in civilisation, in law, they, unfortunately, resort to quite primal methods of resolving disputes. Needless to comment, it is also nice to know the basic elements of a contract, even the form of some more specific contracts, for example, that in order to transfer a car, a notary certification of the signature is needed and so on. These are all things that, in practice, I think, will be very useful to students, adolescents, but, of course, the rest of this subject, the common framework, the mechanisms of democracy, political pluralism, civil society, the way people seek accountability from the state and require it to fulfil its obligations, is the other country, which is also very important. I'm glad you mentioned there's going to be a similar subject and it's going to work in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u160	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u161	Mr. Slavov, not a back-up like an argument or an explanation, but my subject is extremely important and, I would say, pleasant. I just want to give a hint to the people who are listening to us and to the colleagues in this House that an exceptional tank of clarification of what rights mean is consumer protection. It's something that kids have had to deal with since they were little. These are very important rights through which you can understand what contract law is, you can understand how things are resolved without conflict, you can seek mediation, not necessarily end up in court. Here, because of my colleague, the Minister of Environment and Water, you can understand much more about what climate change means and how you can collect, for example, separate waste and so on. In other words, there are extremely many opportunities if in everyday life we explain to children how important it is and how rich it is when you know the law. By the way, consumer protection is recognised as one of the fundamental human rights of the third generation of human rights, in which is also the right to a clean environment. There's a lot to do. If any of you want to do an open lesson in front of students, I think we can do that. In your schools, maybe.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. The next question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Meglena Kuneva is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov regarding the removal of the poem from the literature curriculum. Here you are, Professor, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u163	Dear Madam Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Presidents of the National Assembly, colleagues! The Ministry of Education and Science publishes for public discussion the working options of the new curricula. It is understandable that public interest is aimed at those objects that form a national identity and cultural worldview. It is with particular concern that the absence of the sign work is welcomed by the program for the X class. The dropout of the poem was confirmed in the media by Deputy Minister Dian Stamatov. In the study content Peyo Yavorov is presented only with the works Little absurd sounds the educational goal for students to be able to acquire the knowledge and skills to distinguish world-view ideas typical of Bulgarian culture during the period between the two world wars and to compare these three works with other works of the poet, such as at the levels. I don't know how to compare works that are studied with those that aren't studied?! Under the veil of eloquent motivation the Armenians are thrown out of the curriculum. You can't justify yourself by mistake and misunderstanding. This is, in my opinion, another attack on the work, following the 2002 and 2013 curriculum projects. Back in 2002, Bulgarian intellectuals reminded that there was no more tolerant people in the Balkans than the Bulgarian people because the literature raised him to a large extent through the English language. The dropping of the poem also contradicts the decision of the National Assembly of 24 April 2015 to commemorate the victims of the mass extermination of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire. It seems that people who serve non-Bulgarian interests continue to work in the Ministry of Education and Science................. the interests of the new Ottomanism. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take to end the introduction of this neo-o-manism through the educational programs developed at the Ministry of Education and Science? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u164	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u165	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stanilov, first of all, let me tell you with the necessary dose of calmness, but also strong emphasis that I refuse to accept from the stands of the National Assembly statements that people who serve interests other than Bulgarians work in the Ministry of Education and Science. Such suggestions are completely unfounded and incompatible with the good tone of dialogue between the institutions. In essence, I would like to ask you a few very important clarifications, to bring clarity to the subject. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that these are still working versions of the curriculum and they are in no way final. Moreover, they are not even in public discussion, as you say. The public discussion of IV and X class programmes starts in January 2018, prof. Stanilov, and now we are 2016. There is plenty of time and opportunity to be heard and taken into account different positions on the issue, including your opinion. Next, I would like to point out that the poem "Armentzi" does not drop out of the curriculum, as you yourself pointed out in your question. The work is present in the working version of the curriculum. It is a new way to study not only the particular work but the literature at all. In a few words, I would like to describe the general framework, if I may draw your attention, Professor. Stanilov. The study content in the literature programs is located in two equivalent in importance, but different in functions columns.. Imagine it visually. Literature works are included in the left column, through the work on which specific literary competences from the state educational standard are achieved and in the right column the works, the work on which to ensure the achievement of the social occult competences are achieved. That is, in one country, we can talk about a metaphor and study the poem because of the metaphor, and in the other country where the poem is. This is mostly necessary because in the subject of study "Bulgarian Language and Literature" the literature is not approached purely literaryly. Literature at school is seen not only as an aesthetic phenomenon only and only as a kind of art. Literature in school offers behavioral models, value attitudes, human relationships. It is precisely, observed through this prism that literature enables productive and interfrontal links to history to be built, to achieve goals relating to civic competences, to master communicative skills. In short, in school, literature is treated as a humanity. Finally, I would also like to say some things about the general logic of the new curriculum, if I have enough time. We have taken the approach to reduce the number of literary works studied at the expense of their continued and thorough consideration in order to make them more meaningful than the students and to achieve the educational results set out in the standards and training programmes more effectively. Bulgarian artistic literature abounds with numerous works of undisputed aesthetic and philosophical value, but we must not forget that the classes are still limited fighting and hardly useful for students to ride through a large number of literary works without the necessary time for insight into depth. Finally, good modern education should guarantee not only learning, but also acquiring skills. The other extremely important new element of the philosophy of curriculum is based on the understanding that the teacher is at the center of the educational process. That is why there is also the provision of greater operational autonomy to teachers. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] They are able to choose additional texts, assessing the specific needs, interests and opportunities of students. The poem was loved by generations of Bulgarian teachers and I am sure it will reach this generation of students in schools.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Here's a line for you, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u167	Dear Minister, the good tone you mentioned requires that the truth be spoken to the National Assembly and to the cameras through which our constituents are following us, before you as Deputy Prime Minister, before Mr President of the National Assembly and before colleagues. Therefore, I would like to say the following, within the limits of good tone. What you told me in a sense satisfies you, but what you have been written in this twisted way and explanation of what literature is and how it should be studied, I know very well. I also have a literary education, except historically, but it doesn't matter. You say this is not a public discussion. Everything that is uploaded on the site is available to the wide circles of the Bulgarian public and is already on public discussion and therefore teachers are signaling me about this fact. I can't keep track of all the changes that happen with the textbooks and all the suggestions. It's on the cue of my constituents who work as teachers, and it's from my two electoral districts. Those first three poems, I love you and Masca, and two pretty eyes against you at the levels, the Armenians and the Stones with two different planes, in two different ways, do not satisfy me, because somehow one has a winning position, and the other does not. The interesting thing is that those who have a championship position are less artistic expressions, such as achievements and suggestion than the other two. I wonder where the town of Yavorov has disappeared, which is most, so to speak, but it doesn't matter. There's no need to talk about specifics. The fact that teachers are signaling about the Americans is very revealing. Dear Minister, Armenian in Bulgarian literature is an icon that should not be touched and not just removed from the wall. There is sacral space of the nation. Undoubtedly, questioning serves exactly this policy that I have said and which seems to have offended you a little. One more thing at last, it'll still be within the good tone. For ten years, I've been following the Ministry of Culture about how it deals with the changes in textbooks. I dare say there is a group working against the interests of the Bulgarian people... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing that, Mr. Chairman. I dare say that there are people there who serve a political power in Bulgaria who necessarily want to demitologicalize Bulgarian history. This demitology is in the philosophy of neolyberialism I have spoken from this tribune many times. Last time I told you you were a Libertarian, you said, "I'm not, Professor." Okay, I agree, prove it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u168	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kuneva, perhaps you'd like a duplicate? No. Thank you. Since the People's Representative Ayhan Ahmed Etem has postponed his question to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva, the questions for her have ended, for which I thank her for her participation in parliamentary control. Have a good job! We move on to three questions to the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva. The first question is from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev about the presence of the herbicide in the Bulgarian waters and an assessment of its environmental impact. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u169	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Following the results of the first of its kind study for the presence of the herbicide, Glyphosate in human bodies, it appears that, in addition to its widespread application in agriculture, the herbicide is also very widespread in human bodies. Glyphosate is among the most common herbicides in the world, used by farmers and small gardeners. According to recent studies, the impact of glifosis on human health and the environment is worrying. In Bulgaria, one of ten Bulgarians has a gliphosate in their body, not knowing where it actually comes from. In this regard are my three questions to the Minister: The first question is: Have checks been carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW) for the presence of the herbicide (Glyphozat) in the waters in Bulgaria? The second, is there a permanent control mechanism to monitor the quantities of Glyphozat in the waters in Bulgaria? Third, has the MOEW assessed the environmental impact of glifosis in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. You are welcome to answer the question, Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u171	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ananiev, in answer to your question about the presence of the herbicide "Glyphozat" in the Bulgarian waters and an assessment of its environmental impact, I provide you with the following information. Pursuant to Regulation 1107 of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, the active substance Following the entry into force of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on the market of plant protection products in the Plant Protection Act, the requirements and conditions for its application are laid down. The Bulgarian Agency for Food Safety is the competent authority in the Republic of Bulgaria for the authorisation, placing on the market and use of plant protection products. An overall assessment of the environmental behaviour of the active substances and plant protection products is in the competence of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. With regard to the competence of the Ministry of Environment and Water, the content of the "Glyphozat" in waters is not standardized in Bulgarian and European documents. According to the Water Framework Directive and the Environmental Quality Directive in the field of water policy, the herbicide is not included in the lists of priority substances and lists of monitoring lists. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u172	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ananiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u173	Thank you. Dear Minister, since 2013, there has been a Report of the World Health Organisation which very specifically addresses the problem with this herbicide and I think it should be included in this list you are saying about. I'll give you an example: a few months ago in Germany, this herbicide was found in ten types of beer. Given that in 10% of the population in Bulgaria I am not talking about Europe, there I even think that this percentage is 18, this herbicide is found in the bodies or, more precisely, in the urine of the people, it should be seen how to approach this problem, because I think it is really a problem. I asked the same question not only to you, but to Minister Taneva from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and to Mr. Moskov from the Ministry of Health, because I think that all three ministries should somehow approach this problem together. I hope you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u174	Thank you. Mrs. Secretary, the doppelganger? You don't want to. We move on to the next issue, which by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Manol Genov on the closure and rehabilitation of municipal landfills for municipal waste. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, our question is about the closure and recultivation of already closed depots, former waste dumps on the territory of the country. With regard to the European Union's policy on the closure and rehabilitation of municipal landfills for municipal waste which do not meet the regulatory requirements, please answer: how many municipal landfills for municipal waste are currently subject to recultivation? What amount is needed for this activity, and what sources do you provide for them to be obtained outside European funds? Are there sanctions imposed by the European Commission for delaying the activities quoted by us and, if there is, how much is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u176	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, gentlemen Genov and Ivanov! In 2012, the European Commission launched a criminal procedure against our country following the operation of 124 landfills for non-hazardous municipal waste which do not meet the requirements of Directive 31 of the 1999 for waste disposal. On 16 July 2015, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered its ruling in the case against Bulgaria for failure to comply with the Waste Waste Waste Waste Directive. By 16 July 2009, our country had to cease operation of the old municipal depots, not complying with the requirements of European legislation. What should be noted is that this first judgment does not provide for financial penalties. In this sense, there are no financial obligations of the State arising from this decision. This acknowledges that the party has failed to fulfil its commitments and obliges it to adopt the necessary measures to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice. If a Member State does not remedy the infringement of European Union law, the Court of Justice may again, at the initiative of the European Commission, condemn the Member State and impose a financial penalty on it. As a result of the investments that have been made in recent years, you know that under the Operational Programme "Environment" about 780 million have been invested. lv. in the construction of 18 regional systems on the territory of the country, which cover 104 municipalities, serve a population with nearly four million inhabitants, as well as the resulting actions to close old, unregulated, non-regulated, non-compliance with the environmental legislation requirements of landfills. Currently, the criminal procedure has been frozen by the European Commission. After reporting by the Ministry of Environment and Water about the measures and actions taken to close the dumps, the Ministry managed to convince the European Commission that there is reason for freezing the procedure. The ministry assists municipalities in their efforts to build all regional systems and prevent a second case. Only last year, as a result of the regional systems put into operation, more than 40 municipal depots were terminated. In January 2013, a grant agreement for the project was signed between the Ministry of Environment and Waters and the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Implementation of municipal waste depot closure and recycling activities on the territory of the country, which do not meet the regulatory requirements of the project, amounting to 97,6 million. BGN, of which 83 million from the European Regional Development Fund of the Union. Within the framework of this project was implemented the technical reclamation of 36 municipal depots. In March 2016, the Governing Council of the PUDO adopted a decision to provide an additional total value of 12,6 million for the continuation of the projects until the completion of the biological reclamations and the closure and recalculation of four more depots. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the current programming period, funds from the European funds are not foreseen to finance projects for the rehabilitation of municipal depots. What I can say in the short time I have...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u178	Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u179	...is that we strive to set aside national funds to support the efforts of municipalities. As I said, the penal procedure is not connected and the subject of the criminal procedure is not the reclamation, but the closure of the depots. We support municipalities that have to deal with this problem. We will provide phased funding with the opportunities and resources available from the PPOOS and the issue of the remaining depots that are 110, the necessary funds according to the calculations that have been made are of the order of 180 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u180	Thank you, too. A line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u181	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thanks for the comprehensive answer, but there are still a few questions that need to be clarified. If you have a chance and you're prepared for today, and I'm guessing with this information we've heard, you might be prepared. It is good that the penalty procedure is frozen, but we would like to hear your arguments that you applied for and requested from the European Commission and the Court of Justice to freeze the procedure. What are the conditions under which this happened? What we have also learned is that 110 acres are still to be closed and this amount of 180 million. BGN, which must be invested: how long will this thing take place, are they foreseen in the state budget? Will the terms that you may have negotiated or set as a condition be respected? Because I am convinced that sooner or later this procedure will be resumed if, of course, we do not enter the deadlines that have been set for us. The practice of the Commission and also of the Court of Justice is to have requirements that make the parties aware of whether they are respected. After all, this thing suffers both the Bulgarian state, the Bulgarian budget with sanctions that would eventually be imposed and the Bulgarian municipalities. Because the waste treatment policy itself, which is common European, must be strictly respected by the Bulgarian side. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Indeed, a large part of the local authorities, the mayors, are in the dark. Since there is no name list, perhaps at the next control we will ask for a list of those who are subject to reclamation, but are not aware of what is to come and what they will do, in what order they will receive the funds. We see that at this stage you are releasing them through the PDOOS, but it is still good to know whether these funds are actually provided for in the budget and in what order. Because, anyway, it is raining signals and there is a reply of Minister Donchev that due to the delay and failure of various projects from the old programming period, the state budget will have to separate over 400 million. lv. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is in written reply of Minister Donchev. Would this thing not harm the entire fiscal policy of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Genov! The criminal procedure is related to the fact that Bulgaria has not taken action to decommission the old municipal dumps. For this reason, what the State has undertaken is to build regional systems corresponding to environmental legislation and complying with all the requirements for preventing pollution of water, soil and air. What is not done within the deadlines is to build regional systems, respectively to decommission the depots that have been used in the meantime. What have we reported to the Commission, and what are the arguments for which the Commission adopted to freeze the procedure? This is progress in the construction of regional systems, progress in supporting the construction of these systems, which could not receive funding from the Operational Programme "Environment" because of delays by municipalities. The systems in the regions of Pazardzhik, Blagoevgrad, Dupnitsa, Provadia and Byala Rusesko will be established, for which we provide support to municipalities, methodological aid and financial resources to cope with this task. In parallel, we also support municipalities by providing another 563 million. lv. under Operational Programme "Environment" for the construction of systems with all the elements required to reduce the quantities of landfilled waste. As far as financial resources are concerned, as we have commented through the Environmental Management Organisation, funds are being provided, but partly, cumulatively, in stages, because the resource that is needed is large. Municipalities are aware of the economic mechanism laid down in the Waste Management Act [[the President signals that time has run out]] , arising from art. 60 of the Law, according to which it is necessary to set aside charges for the purpose of reclamation of waste treatment facilities. These funds can also be used for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u183	Thank you, too. The next question to the Minister of Environment and Waters Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva is again from Manol Trifonov Genov on subsequent control by the Ministry of Environment and Waters of Plovdiv, for the disposal of construction waste at an illegal landfill in the village of Pervenets, Municipality of Rodopi, Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies ministers! My question is about the subsequent control by the Regional Inspectorate for Protection of the Environment, Plovdiv, about the disposal of construction waste at the unregulated landfill in the village of Pervenets, Rodopi municipality, Plovdiv district. Dear Minister, in parliamentary control some time ago I asked you a question about the ongoing uncontrolled exploitation of a waste dump near the village of Pervenets, Municipality of Rodopi. In my reply then, I said that I would monitor the implementation of what you promised from this tribune then, namely that you would be even more interested in the development of the case, because your undisputed priority is to carry out preventive, current and subsequent controls and that the violation of legislation is sanctioned. That is why I want to know what actions were carried out by the RIEW city of Plovdiv in the direction of your promises? Is there a criminal order issued with a certain penalty? Has an inspection been carried out within the prescribed time limit? Have these prescriptions been fulfilled? If the deadlines are not met, what forced administrative measures have been taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u185	Thank you, Mr. Genov. You are welcome to answer the question, Mrs. Vasileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u186	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, in my previous reply to you, I assured you that the Ministry of Environment and Water, respectively the Regional Inspectorate for Environment and Waters, Plovdiv, will continue to carry out ex post controls and will monitor the implementation of the prescription issued on 31 March 2016, to the Executive Director of the In this regard, I inform you of the following. On 9 May 2016, experts of the Regional Environmental Inspection and Waters Department of Plovdiv carried out a follow-up on-site inspection at the site of construction waste. It is stated that the prescription has been fulfilled. All wastes other than those authorised in the registration document issued by the RIEW are cleaned and transmitted to the company "Myth" and "Co" Ltd. During the verification, note sheets were presented, according to which, in the period 24 April 3 May 2016, the waste was transported and deposited in a regional landfill for non-hazardous waste in the municipalities of Karlovo and Hissar. In relation to the infringement found in the previous inspection. The adoption and storage of waste with codes other than those in the registration document issued to the company to the Executive Director of the In conclusion, I would like to assure you that RIEW Plovdiv will continue to carry out effective control of the company's activities in the Plovdiv SSP for strict compliance with the provisions of the Waste Management Act in carrying out construction waste treatment activities at the site in the village of Pervenets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u187	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u188	Dear Minister, I can see from your answer that things have been covered well enough during the inspection carried out by your Regional Inspection Officers. The most interesting thing is that this dump is still functioning. His alibi for processing construction waste issued with registration when your employees went and did a check to make this registration and when construction waste processing activities were allowed, was there ever at this dump a mobile or stationary waste processing installation? Because it's the alibi for the job at this dump that this registration is. I assure you there has never been such a setup. Last time I said there was no detailed planning either. Now, it's very interesting that they've taken these waste somewhere and taken scale notes. For months there, taking what's deposited won't be enough time. So to me, just in front of you for smudged things, and the reality is completely different. If you have good will, I can invite you on site, together to see or send upon further examination your experts from the Ministry's Waste, together with them, to make sure of the real state of affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u189	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Mrs. Minister's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u190	I thank Mr. Genov for his commitment. Thank you for supporting the efforts of the Ministry of Environment and Water, our entire team to exercise strict and effective control. In this regard, of course I accept the offer. In any case, ex post controls are carried out on a follow-up check that is organised to broadcast representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Water. We will also invite you to get acquainted with the results of the work on the exercise of control. As it became clear, a criminal order was issued, sanctioned was the violator for the committed violations. At present, it has been found that no other wastes other than those included in the registration document are being deposited, so I hope that our really joint efforts will lead to even more stringent controls. Thank you once again for your commitment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u191	Thank you, and I, Mrs. Vassileva, was the last question to you. Have a good job! We move on to two questions to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. The first question she will answer is from the National Representative Willy Lilkov on the activities of the Ministry of Justice in the field of penitence, general management, planning and control of the activities of punishment. Here you go, Mr. Lilkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u192	Thank you, Mr. Karakachanov. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question to Mrs. Zaharieva concerns the policy of the Ministry of Justice in the field of general management, planning and control of the activities of execution of penalties. In fact, my questions are four in number related to the basic question. First of all, is there a report I am talking about a written document to implement the Strategy for the Development of Prisons in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2009 - 2015 and the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy? Secondly, which of the planned objectives have been achieved and what are the specific results? To what extent are the Strategy and the Action Plan implemented? Thirdly, does the Ministry of Justice intend to propose a change in the legal framework for limiting relapse among prisoners and, if there is, what are they? Finally, does the Ministry of Justice intend to propose setting up centres for former prisoners to offer programs for resocialization, residence and employment?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u193	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u194	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lilkov, the Strategy for the Development of Prisons in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2009-2015 and the Action Plan for its implementation were adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers of 2008. The Strategic Document envisioned over the next few years the construction, modernization, expansion of the material base of prisons and the probation system throughout the country, as well as design and engineering, toast construction of five new prisons in Sofia, Varna, Pleven, Veliko Tarnovo and Haskovo. The document states that no additional funds are required for the implementation of the objectives and priorities set out in the Strategy. You understand that this is absolutely unfounded: provided that the construction of five new prisons is envisaged without predicting resources and sources how to finance it, it is a stillborn plan. As a result of the subsequent financial and economic crisis of 2008. The strategy and the implementation plan have not really started. Therefore, no record of their implementation during those years was also legal. Moreover, the capital costs of the Directorate-General for Punishment and not only have not increased, funds have not been provided in the coming years for the implementation of the Strategy, but have decreased by more than 8 times by 11.5 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Since then, the increase has been up to 1 million. 650,000. for 2016 Although no specific objectives have been formally implemented precisely under this Strategy, other sources have been sought by the Ministry to provide and improve conditions in prisons. You know that this is not only an image problem of Bulgaria. It has reached the point that recommendations have been made for years by the Council of Europe and by the European Court of Human Rights until a pilot decision which we are obliged to implement by the end of this year or at least to propose a plan. We have proposed one and it is highly appreciated. In order to improve the conditions in the places of imprisonment since the beginning of 2015 numerous renovations have been carried out both with budgetary resources and with the help of external donors, this is the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. Seven prisons and prison dormitories were renovated to them, one arrest and a training center for employees in the town of Pleven. At the end of 2015, we found a fully renovated prison corps in Stara Zagora. At the end of July this year, we are about to open a new prison dormitory in the town of Debelt. Thus, without the construction of new prisons and the huge funds required, and you know that over the years it is difficult to provide, the minimum requirements for four square meters will be met, the availability of bathrooms and our places of imprisonment will meet the requirements of the Council of Europe and other organisations. Public procurement is already under way this year... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are a lot of questions, so I'm asking you to go on a little longer than necessary time, which I apologize for.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u195	You're also entitled to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u196	...and the other three prisons that still don't meet the bathroom requirements. There's money in the budget. Regarding your other questions. At the beginning of June we will submit a new amendment to the Law on the Execution of Punishments to the Council of Ministers. You know a change has passed. I thank the MPs for their support. The new amendments relate to the pilot solution, to improving the problems of overpopulation and bad conditions. At present, this Bill is in public discussion and receives a number of opinions. In addition, we have provided the opportunity to increase and promote the education of prisoners. Let's be honest. Punishment for relapse is hard enough. Enough measures shall be taken with regard to the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Without re-socialization, re-education, education, and the creation of labour habits, especially in repeaters, no matter how much we increase penalties, we will not solve this problem. This is an extremely important question. We have also entered into talks with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and have extremely intensive talks with the Ministry of Interior to create a Resocialization Programme and to create working conditions in prisons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u197	Thank you. In the back, you can add. Mr. Lilkov, straight to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u198	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your revelations and accurate response, as it gives a clear picture of what is the state of implementation of the Strategy and the Plan for its implementation. I'll allow myself to make a summary that I didn't make at my exhibition, but your words give me reason. Since 2008, a very, very little has actually been done on this issue, to say nothing but the repairs you said. I'd like to remind you of something else. Perhaps in 2009 or 2010, the findings began that the strategy was not realistic. The national preventive mechanism has also established this. I expect you to submit a realistic plan "You said June." I'll look forward to it with interest. You will receive full support from at least myself and my colleagues. However, we must concentrate on the last two questions that I have asked and to which you have answered, namely the re-socialisation and the creation of conditions to avoid the recurrence and upbringing of the people who have gone through these places to endure punishment. Thank you again. I will expect you to submit your proposals in June.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u199	Thank you, Mr. Lilkov. Madam Minister, you now have two minutes under the rules, so you can finish your exhibition.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u200	You're absolutely right. 2008 is the unrealistic adopted Strategy. On top of that, there are no sources of funding. The five new prisons are unrealistic, you'd say unnecessary! Even if it were a realistic thing, even if funds were foreseen, it would be money thrown into the wind, provided that with much less money, repairing existing prisons can achieve these goals. There's no point throwing money away. The plan was adopted at the end of last year and at the beginning of this one. Maybe we should promote it. If you want, I'll send it to you in writing so you can see what we've accepted with the Norwegian mechanism. We're talking about the new period. We're working very well. They are pleased with what the Ministry of Justice is doing with the existing budgetary resources. We foresee more funds under the Norwegian Financial Mechanism. We'll send you this plan. We will amend the Law because the pilot decision imposes amendments to the Law. As an attitude, as a relief they are not so connected with funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u201	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. The next question to the Minister of Justice is from the MP Yavor Haytov about the possibility of abuse of information from the Commercial Register. Mr. Haytov, please proceed with the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues on the left were joking that today it happened that my questions are especially to the ladies, representatives of the Council of Ministers, but in essence my question is about the possibility of misuse of information in the Trade Register and I believe that this is part of the notorious judicial reform, and it is no secret that many commercial entities and citizens complain about the fact that whole companies are being stolen. Dear Minister, the management of the Registry Agency does not comply with the opinion of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data and it has registered No P-386 since 2015. Anyone who seeks to enrich himself illegally and uses information technology through the so-called Open Data (CS) of the Commercial Register can very easily commit theft of companies and hence the theft of property and even the use of bank accounts. The files shall contain all information on the movement of the trader's activities, with the names of the files being provided for the scanned images. The mere withdrawal of the scanned documents from the Trade Register is extremely easy, provided that a qualified electronic signature or free digital certificate is available which is issued by the Registry Agency. Almost every computer specialist can download such a certificate through the Registry Agency's website. It is explicitly stated that only the single civil numbers and the private numbers of foreigners are encoded. At the same time, all other personal information is provided for use by anyone who wants to have it.. addresses of registration, e-mails, other data such as the numbers and dates of personal documents, electronic images of all kinds of documents, including those containing personal data of managers, partners, commissioners and so on. Madam Minister, last month's National Security Advisory Council with the President of the Republic dealt with the consequences that may have on the security of the state of conducting targeted Internet attacks and the conduct of the so-called and possibly sad glory of the Hybrid War. In practice, the one who wants to attack the Bulgarian economy can already do so through the possibility of a colossal leak of personal information created by the Registry Agency. My question to you is: what measures will you take to address the problem that concerns the security of the number of companies and the huge amount of personal information that is related to them and information of individuals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u203	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Haytov! After the entry into force of the Commercial Register Act, you know that advertising is being carried out in the field of commercial registration, with the registration process going to the Registry Agency. The law governs commercial registration, keeping, keeping and accessing the Trade Register, its publicity, access to it and the powers of the Registry Agency. In addition, the Commercial Register Act sets out a separate registration procedure within which, at the request of the person concerned, an entry, deletion and all other actions are carried out. The legislator has explicitly given each citizen the right to free and free access to the register and to the electronic model of documents on the basis of which the entries, deletions, notices were made and the electronic image of the business affairs of the traders. Moreover, I am doing a clamp here, at the London Anti-Corruption Conference, we have actually found that Bulgaria is far ahead of other democracies and public access to these data has been cited as good practice. Countries where there is no such public access have been called upon to have access. Of course, this does not happen when access to personal data. Access by citizens to documents in the Commercial Register shall be granted only by registered access, qualified electronic signature or digital certificate, which shall be issued in a special order by the Registry Agency. The public part of the register for which no electronic identification is required shall contain information only on the current status of the company and the instrument of incorporation as provided for publication. The publication of information in the Trade Register in the open data portal is in accordance with Decision No 103 of the Council of Ministers and Agreement between the Registry and Administration Agency of the Council of Ministers. No personal data or documents of the applicant shall be published in the register. The information is limited only to the data from the public part of the Trade Register for which no electronic identification is required. The measures applying the Personal Data Protection Agency of the Commercial Register are in favour of the electronic pages of the register and the open data portal are: UNN and the personal numbers of foreigners are not published. The same is for the UNWE of Bulgarian citizens. Any user access shall be recorded through its electronic signature or digital certificate. No links to the scanned images of documents concerning the entry are provided for the open data portal. In the portal of open data all personal data from the Trade Register have been deleted. It's not true they're there. Regarding the comment that very easily theft of companies can be carried out due to the publicity of the Commercial Register, in fact the abuses are committed by forgery of documents, false or not authentic contracts for transfer of the company share, powers of representation, false minutes of meetings of general meetings and others. The Ministry of Justice has drawn up a Draft Law of the Commercial Law, which is being discussed and presented to the Legal Commission, which I hope you will be present in advance before submitting to the National Assembly by the Council of Ministers. In addition, the proposed amendment provides for a stricter form of validity of the signature and content at the same time when transferring an undertaking and a company share, and when the partners present at the General Assembly accept and exclude partners, transfer a company share, choose a manager, take decisions. We have already made appropriate changes to the Ordinance on the service archives of notaries for keeping, storing and accessing the Trade Register. We have created a technical and legal opportunity for the registration officials, when carrying out the relevant changes to the company accounts, to check in the Notary Chamber's information system whether these documents, which are submitted for registration with us, are not false. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This has been seen as a very good step and I am convinced that all these actions will lead to prevention against the production of real documents. These are actions that are crimes. They should be pursued with all the strictness of the Law, but this is not the problem of the Registry Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u205	Thank you and I, Madam Secretary. Mr. Haytov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! One of the objectives, in fact, of parliamentary control is for society to hear what is being done in a particular area. What you have said today, here and now, it is important for me to reach the knowledge and awareness of the commercial attachés of foreign countries, which can calmly inform all commercial entities that there is one security and stability in terms of the registration and operation of commercial companies in the country. Because both in your programme and your government has repeatedly announced that it wants foreign investment, wants foreign citizens and trading companies to open jobs and, of course, to pay the lower taxes here than usual in Europe. However, I cannot agree that there is indeed absolute certainty regarding the registration of commercial companies. The fact is that stealing companies, as citizens say, non-Jurassicists, are good. The fact is that the appeal procedure is also quite long, quite clumsy, subsequently repeated, even third such actions are carried out, and all this is extremely unpleasant, because sometimes people who have created with their skills, with their knowledge functioning trading companies, lose them. I don't want to go back in time when, if memory serves, the Ambassador of the Republic of France in the TV studios explained how in Bulgaria commercial companies are being stolen, but, please, there is a problem there. That's what I've noted as an introduction to my question is a fact. Perhaps some of the things have been corrected, give God as a result of this question, but, again, I repeat, one of the goals is to have relative stability, that every investor should know that his trading company or funds, which he has put into place, in the broad sense of the word, in our economy, cannot be possessed, stolen and he, instead of winning, suffer losses which, at the end of the day, undermine the prestige of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u207	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. Mrs. Zaharieva, come on in. You're entitled to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u208	That is true. Such things happen in Bulgaria, unfortunately, but what depends on the Trade Register as access to the notary database... Because, again, all of these cases are fake documents. That's a crime! That is why we have provided access and prior verification of the notaries' registers of whether there is indeed such a document issued and notarized by the notary. I'm sure this will minimize these cases. The other you know that with the amendment of the Commercial Law we offer more documents to require notary certification. It was presented, supported by all employers' organisations except one, was also presented to your attention to the Legal Commission and I hope that, when it is tabled, it will be supported. We have also proposed a special composition with this amendment to the Penal Code, because it is currently only for false documents, meaning there is no explicit text to investigate companies. And the damage in this case, it is still a crime, namely to give false documents, but we believe that there should also be a qualified composition and I hope that this bill will be supported very soon, perhaps in three weeks. He's been in public for a long time. It will be imported, and I hope you will support it soon. But the most important thing is a quick investigation into these crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u209	Thank you, too, Mrs. Zaharieva. With an answer to the question of the MP Yavor Haytov Your participation in parliamentary control is over. Have a good job! By the end of the working hours of five questions will be answered by the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Desislava Taneva. Three colleagues have postponed their questions. The first question to Minister Taneva is from the MP Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova on the implementation for 2016 of State aid for the recovery of the excise duty on fuels for farmers. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u210	The matter will be resolved positively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u211	I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u212	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! The question I am asking is related to the period of April when the European Commission announced the information to enable Bulgaria to apply state aid for the recovery of excise duty for fuels. Since it has been more than a month, a month and a half, perhaps at this point the issue is not so relevant given the fact that the National Assembly yesterday adopted at first reading the Agricultural Aid Act, where it somewhat becomes an answer to the question of what this state aid will be, what are its main parameters. I have to tell you that the objective analysis we are doing from BSP left Bulgaria is that this notification, this possibility of restoring the excise duty for fuels, is much more favourable than previously the current voucher system, which made it very difficult for the administration, control over the implementation of the relevant state aid and led, in general, quite negative consequences in terms of support. However, in your reply, I expect to hear a few important things relating, first of all, to when aid is expected to start, given that there is a consensus in the National Assembly to adopt the Law at second reading as soon as possible, but you are about to develop and propose a methodology that reflects accordingly the consumption of fuels and gas at differentiated rates, and you should also sign an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as well as the Ministry of Finance, with regard to the control of fuel suppliers and control throughout the process. I expect your clarification on these topics and on when the aid is expected to start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Piralkova. Mrs. Taneva, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u214	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! In the presentation of your question, dear Professor. Bachvarova, you said that the bill passed at first reading in the Committee on Agriculture and Food in plenary. Of course, I take this opportunity to thank the MPs from all the political groups who supported this bill. As far as I am informed, the deadline for proposals between first and second readings is reduced to three days and I expect, of course, with a request to the Presidency, that the bill at second reading be put on the agenda and voted by the MPs. How do we proceed with the procedure? The aid law for farmers will already provide such an opportunity to apply State aid. Following a positive opinion on the implementation of the State aid scheme by the Minister of Finance, according to art. 9 of the State Aid Act, and consequently the upload to the electronic system of the European Commission, as you have just said, the issuance of the relevant methodology by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and instructions jointly with the Ministry of Finance and the Customs Agency, in the manner in which the aid will be applied. It can be applied from 2015 to 2020. The mode is different from the current mode of use of the vouchers, but will be applied according to a standard for a certain type of invoice production that has been issued in previous years, i.e. they have already been reported, may also be subject to verification of their inclusion in the relevant records of the seller or the buyer of the invoice, and the applicable norm of the farmer. Given the procedure I have announced and the deadlines for its adoption, I hope that all these administrative procedures will probably take no more than a month and a half two. This is difficult for me to say.. depends on other institutions that need to be included, but the important thing is that we already have clarity on the question whether the State aid scheme can be implemented and how will be applied for the use of a discount from the excise duty on agricultural fuels. I would also like to add that you, as MPs involved in both the debate and the vote on the Republican Budget Act, are informed about the implementation of the scheme for the use of a discount from the excise of fuels.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u215	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Here's a line for you, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u216	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! As is clear from the change in the Law, farmers will be able in 2015, which were registered in the RAC and the control systems have acted on them, to recover the excise duty for fuels in this year and to start this State aid from the period or period within which it was authorised by the European Commission. I have two supplementary questions that are a challenge to me if I can get an answer from you. First, is it possible that there is a differentiation of costs in terms of crops and also of an animal unit, according to the region? In Bulgaria you know that in addition to the plain regions where the cost of gas oil is a quantity that can be determined and is constant for agricultural crops on technological maps, we have disadvantaged areas and they have significantly higher costs. This was one of the debates during the Committee on Agriculture and Food as a matter of fact, because this expenditure is indeed higher. The second question is, if the entire financial resource on the basis of the invoices provided is not used, will the remainder of the resource for 2015 be allocated to farmers, which has not been used since the Budget Act states how much funds can be used? Is there going to be a redistribution? I hope I've been clear on the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u217	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u218	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, on the occasion of the first additional question, the cost norms that have been set are according to statistics and Eurotech maps. For each type of agricultural production, according to what area it is in, the cost varies in some non-essential differences. Yes, we may reach in detail, but, first, if we are going to work in this direction now, it means changing again the concept of the way such a scheme would be applied, the second is to go again to these preliminary consultations, which took nearly nine months of time, which would mean in practice this year becoming certainly impossible to implement the scheme. On the occasion of the eligibility of State aid for the reduction of the excise duty of fuels, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, as well as the Ministry of Finance, a long preliminary communication with different services of the Commission has passed. Putting on another plane the granting of this State aid means that this time it will be carried out again without, of course, knowing what the final result would be, and certainly the inability to apply the scheme in the short term, certainly this year. I believe that there are, above all, differences in these areas and, to a greater extent, in the yields from the respective industries. In their spending is significantly lower and, again, I say, is very relative and very disadvantaged areas, which are, for example, not semi-mountain or with a certain relief that causes more cost, they do not actually have more cost. And such differentiation would be extremely complicated and would make this scheme and state aid a multi-layered one, with very complex criteria for determining these costs and would question this positive indeed in terms of one such communication that we would have to do, and my advice is to have a real effect on everything that we have gone up to the moment and to provide an aid that is certainly necessary for farmers, especially against the background and price trends in the industries they are making, not to put this subject to debate, so that we do not miss the opportunity to implement the scheme in the near future. As regards your second question, the scheme, in principle, as communicated as it is set out and as we will ask it for the approval of the Minister, is the budget set aside and taken into account when adopting the budget, to be divided on the basis of the rights which farmers have and not in reverse. I mean, we shouldn't go into the hypothesis you're putting at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u219	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is again from Professor Svetla Bachvarova on the investment program of state forest enterprises for 2016. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! My question was asked again at the beginning of April and was provoked by the information submitted during your opening of the Forest Week in terms of investment activity in 2016 in state forest enterprises. According to the Forests Act, a Fund is being formed, which enables state forest enterprises to carry out certain activities, investments that are in the interest of the forestry sector. I have bothered to look for 2015 some of the state-owned forest enterprises have spent the money, but I have to tell you that I am a little worried about what happens as a final result. For example, for afforestation only 5.5.. 6% of the funds that are planned and spent by this Fund. For forest roads and facilities, 56%, for construction, for the purchase of cars, about 38%. This also provokes my question, to understand, however, what will be the priorities and criteria for the spending of the Fund, as you, according to art. 189 of the Forest Act, as Minister of Agriculture, you define these priorities and these priorities are implemented within the year? Besides, how did you present a priority in Forest Week that shocked me a little bit in total, because until now it has not been included as such in the spending of the Fund. It is about buying small inefficient plots of non-state forest from owners who are not able to manage them. If I can get information on this question, what is the idea at all and how will the texts be refined or how will the procedures be refined to find out from whom and from whom cannot purchase a forest that is private property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u222	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! In the presentation of your question, you also put the topic for 2015. It is not asked to me in the question and I will further provide data that are relevant to the question you are asking for 2016. On the first question: what is the financial result of the Fund in the Forests? According to data from state-owned enterprises, the funds available in the Forest Fund at the beginning of 2016 amounted to 84,6 million. lv. On the second question: what are the priorities and criteria for and when spending the funds in it? The funds accumulated in the " Forests" Fund can only be spent on the activities defined by the Forests Act. According to the approved financial plans for 2016, state-owned enterprises plan to invest a total of 49 million. lv. of the funds of the Fund in the Forests. I mean, every year, and for the present 2016 after the first quarter and after the completion of the financial results of the previous year, we adopt the financial plan and business plan of each State forestry undertaking in which we place both the business and the financial plans of the undertakings concerned. What we have planned for this year for the construction and maintenance of forest roads is 84% of the budget or 41 million. lv. of the Fund's funds, of which 40 million lv. It is estimated that the total number of forest roads in the forest area is around 53% more than that reported in 2015, i.e. 177 km. Just for reference, I would like to say that until 2011, from 1996. After the first forest reform, less than 20 km of such roads were built. Between 2011 and 2014 some 80 km were built. Last year they were 177. We're predicting 271 km this year; - £853,000. For the design of a new forest infrastructure; - One million. lv. for technical support facilities; - £690,000. for the purchase of forest areas. This is the new opportunity that we announced at Forest Week. What's this about? For the possibility of owners of small forest properties which cannot be protected in practice, these are the properties, according to the Analysis of infringements and illegal logging, in which the most of these violations are committed, for the simple reason that the owners do not have the possibility of guarding these areas, and as well as their small size of practice predetermines their inability to manage in a way that can bring income under which the property under the Forest Act can be managed. How and by what criteria they will be able to be purchased, of course, they will be public. This will be possible and we plan to launch it in the second half of this year, after we draw up, of course, and debate ahead, we are currently preparing criteria for the purchase of such properties. The purpose of this investment is to manage these forests under the Forests Act, guarded and accordingly to conduct activities according to science. In addition, in addition to those activities, by means of their business funds, undertakings are planning to invest an additional 38 million. BGN 22 million lv. for les occult activities suppliing, protecting and protecting forests, including for afforestation. I would also like to add here that for the past 2015 we also have 16 thousand acres of wooded, and according to statistics from 1996 to 2014, including this is the year in which we have the most wooded areas. This year's plan is 20,000 acres. I also want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u223	Let's go in the back, because you've been delayed for more than a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u224	I didn't hear. Sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u225	No, I didn't interrupt. These data are important, let's finish your thought, it's normal. Here's a line for you, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the reply in which you outlined 2016. "What are the priorities and what guidelines will finance them, what investments will be made in the forest sector, but my request is that this information be sufficiently public at the beginning of the year so that I do not have to ask questions. Anyone interested in how the forest sector will develop, should have the information when it is adopted as priorities. Unfortunately, I couldn't find this data, although I've been looking hard on the sites of the Executive Forest Agency. An additional issue, which arose after the discussion in the Committee on Agriculture and Food on Wednesday, was related to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act. My question is to you: these are all procedures whether they will be under the Public Procurement Act because, as at the time of public discussion, the Regulation on the award of activities is proposed, it turns out that all activities that are different from the production of wood and the auctions to be held also... [[Reply from Minister Desislava Taneva.]] No, it is almost written that they are not subject to public procurement and will be in the Ordinance on the award of activities, which means that this Ordinance will overcome public procurement. This issue has not been clarified during the discussion itself, but it seems to me that, especially for forest-related activities related to forest roads, transparency requires public procurement to enable the choice of the best offers and the best opportunity to realise the resource available in this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u227	Here you go for the dot, and you'll probably finish your answer. It also contained digital data.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u228	Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, I accept your offer. I do not see anything that limits us by law, the plans we adopt, and also the convenience reports to also upload them to the site of the Forest Executive Agency in order to use information from stakeholders. Mr. President, of course, is provoking me to continue with another expenditure that we foresee, which is very important and is also part of our policies in the management of the sector. 660,000. lv. We predict a forest certification of 895 thousand. a hectare of state forest areas with which the total area of certified state forests will reach 58% of their total area. As you know, it is a European policy and the certification of these territories, these state forests show that they are exploited, managed by the best practices in Europe. Regarding the question you asked about publicity. I answered you, we will. With regard to the Public Procurement Act, I am surprised that during the debate in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, this issue has not been clarified. He's very clear. The National Assembly adopted a new Public Procurement Act. In this Law, entirely new, the procedure for the settlement of the procedures for the award of forestry activities remained the same as in the old TPP. These activities will be awarded under a special Ordinance on the award of forest activities, but everything else, including forest roads, including those which are currently built, are going under the general order of the Public Procurement Act. The only activity which is under a special regulation, which is actually adopted on the basis of the Forests Act and the Law on Public Procurement, concerns only this activity, which refers to the management of natural resources, in which the period depends on nature and there is no way to create in practice artificial conditions to prove the application of a order that is only theoretical. The special order is only for forestry activities. Cars, forest roads, design and all other activities and procedures regarding the performance of certification, also inventory to come, all in general order.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u229	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Kircho Karagyov regarding problems before the campaign 2016 for direct payments per unit area. I'll develop the question, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! I apologize for asking you five questions after each other, but so it happened in time that in a month and a half they piled up on various occasions, which was important to be clarified in parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u231	It is not necessary, as you are in the Rules of Procedure, so it is your right.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u232	Thank you. The issue we are putting is related to the 2016 direct payments campaign. In most of the country, the direct payments campaign started significantly later. Later, we're talking 10, 15 days. The questions we asked the district services were related to explanations of the kind that change software, computers, it is not possible to obtain the layer, which should be outlined accordingly, to finalise the data. This has led to extreme tension in the sector whether farmers will be able to enter the statutory deadlines without a sanction. At the same time, the European Commission, I suppose, the signals that have come from different countries, decided that each country would have the opportunity to extend the deadline according to its capabilities, and then carry out adequate control, because the extension of the deadline afterwards leads to other consequences. In this regard, the question that we are asking with colleague Karagyozov is related: firstly, is it envisaged an extension of the deadline because, legally, with an order or otherwise, no such extension has been registered, at least from the official documents and orders to the district directorates? Accordingly, will the administration manage to deal with the problems that have arisen within this extended period? I guess it wasn't just technical, but there were administrative difficulties that should have been overcome during this period of application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u233	Thank you. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u234	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! Let me begin with the answer that Bulgaria took advantage of the opportunity that the Commission gave us by amending the Regulation, which sets the deadline for the campaign of direct payments, which came out on 13 May 2016. The deadline will be extended by two weeks to 31 May 2016, without a penalty for late submission; 15 June. - June 27th. - June 27th. A draft derogation regulation was prepared which was published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food on 11 May 2016. After the expiry of the 14-day period, under the Law on Legislative Acts, of course, we will accept it and expect its promulgation in the State Gazette. For making this decision, we have explicitly taken into account the decisions of industry organisations in agriculture. They asked for this deadline and the decision was taken by majority, that is, part of the representatives were of the opinion that the deadline should not be extended. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food was that we can manage without the extension of the deadline, but as we announced as soon as the Commission gave such an opportunity to each Member, we will comply with the opinion of the industry. What do the numbers say? As of yesterday's May 19th, applications for a total of 3 million have been submitted. 592,000. 385 hectares. This represents 97% of all requested areas in the 2015 campaign, represents the exact same amount of areas requested last year at the same date and represents a little less than 2014. In 2014, when the rule of law was not applied on grounds, the requested area was 3 million. 870 hectares, and last year, when we introduced the legal basis.. 3.7 million hectares. So the pace at which the campaign was going and the campaign is going, it practically prejudges that there is no problem for the end of the campaign within the deadline, especially at the extended deadline now. I also received a call from various regional unions and from some services who knew that we would comply with the industry............................the deadline to comply. In terms of number of candidates. By yesterday's date, we had 111,000 255 farmers, as of last year, the same date as 104 thousand and one farmers, and by 2014 there were 133 thousand 359 farmers, but then there was no requirement for registration for a farmer. The introduction of this criterion as a basis for application and eligibility also reduced the volume of applicants, which became clear and manifested as early as last year. Regarding the delay. Yes, in principle and not always the farmers themselves start on 1 March. We had conditions to be able to declare areas, but the fact is that by 1 March there was no way to end them. Furthermore, for some of the directions that you have asked me about, the layers were really later approved given changes in the relevant database, because in the end it is about compensatory payments for something that either exists or is not and better to be strict. Now all specific layers for individual directions are uploaded to IACS.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u235	Come in, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u236	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! I accept that the campaign for direct payments has some or other problems that need to be solved each year in the course of the campaign itself, as you stressed, not all layers were ready by March 1st when the campaign was launched. One of the things I would like to draw attention to is that most of the farmers are worried about the fact that they have to go a second time to complete their registration. They have submitted the application, but it has not been finalised and completed, which means that it still takes physical time for all these 111 thousand farmers to submit their documents in time. In addition, I have a few additional questions related to information that we have received from farmers, especially in southern Bulgaria. Perhaps there, since the ground is more fragmented, there are problems, including with the legal grounds of the white spots, they are not included in the support layer, which means that the white spots cannot be claimed for assistance. I really say South Bulgaria - Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, regions where such problems are usually created due to the large number of users of the land. Besides, I'm asking the road question again. There are cases where there is a payment to the municipality, they have legal grounds, but cannot be outlined. This is also a problem related to the software, which needs to be updated on the basis of the new requirements that the legal basis be the basis for further registration and receipt of direct payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u237	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Professor Bachvarova, yes, you're right. Of the 111 thousand and a little more applicants are currently closed 92 thousand applicants or about 20 thousand applications are open without being completed. Of course, they will be completed, and I want to assure you that each case will also be dealt with individually, if necessary, in order to protect the true rights of the farmer concerned and the rights that he has on a subsidy. Who aren't basically finished? Yeah, that's with the specialized layer of four directions by one agri-environment measure, pastures, meres and meadows where we have these cases. Not everyone, I'm saying, it's the usual case. But all of us, together with you, in this mandate, have adopted amendments to the legislation regarding the distribution by the Fund of permanent grasslands, meres, pastures and meadows on the principle of following livestock farmers. I think this is a principle around which all the political groups have united. The application of this principle also required an obligation under the law to terminate contracts for which there were no livestock units and, of course, control on our part whether all this was implemented, respectively, the fund, which is stated to be a fund of animals, in order to implement the policies around which, I repeat, we have united and I believe that this is the direction. Where there are unresolved solutions in legislation, after the end of the campaign, we will propose further clarification of the texts as a result of what we have encountered in the course of this campaign. About the roads. The latest update of the State Land Fund, the roads, the white spots and the merri, pastures and meadows is under way. I mean, really where it didn't work out, I think all this should end in the course of these days. It will be decided and from there every case will be dealt with individually in terms of rights. In this campaign, yes, we have encountered many difficulties. Yeah, the system really isn't the way we wanted it. We finalise anyway, I have announced from the National Assembly's stand that it was once again appealed, the procedure has passed much more than our planned time and we have not been able to complete it. However, in the course of the campaign Direct payments 2016 will not be supported and one acres of land for which the relevant white spots have not been paid, where there have been and, of course, the rule of measure, pasture and meadows from the land fund should be applied to the maximum extent in the interests of livestock farmers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u239	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the last question for today's parliamentary control, again by Professor Svetla Bachvarova and the National Representative Dobryn Danev on the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to control the disease. The issue will develop the people representative Dobrin Danev. Here you go, Mr. Danev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u240	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable Members, I would like to ask the question by updating it to date, because the question asked with colleague Bachvarova is from April 19, 2016, concerning the disease............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ For this period of time, we are witnessing such measures, and I, updating the issue, would like to bring some data up to date. It was found on 11 May that there were 63 outbreaks of such an outbreak of 1593 pcs. infected animals, of which 1412 killed and 181 were to be killed. Inoculations were carried out in two stages and the first stage ended with 150,000. doses of vaccinated animals around 4 May in outbreaks and around outbreaks. About May 16th was expected to arrive about 175,000. vaccines to extend the vaccination area around the outbreaks and to carry out vaccinations around the border areas. At the same time, I believe that the correct decision was made to conduct air treatment of the areas in the outbreaks of contamination by Agricultural Aviation in three stages, the first being completed around 23 April at about 61 thousand. In the case of outbreaks of infection, around 2 million were to be treated in the second case. Five hundred thousand. dka s enlarging the outbreaks and the third stage of the Danube, together with the Romanian country, to be treated around 1 million. Dka on our turf. At the same time, under the Animal Health Act, the animals destroyed by livestock farmers had to be compensated at market prices. I do not know what accounts and statistics, the compensation for the ordinary rate of a cow outside selection control was calculated at BGN 1072, which is extremely low in relation to livestock farmers, as the market price of cattle, namely of such a type of animal as the cow, goes around BGN 1500-2000. So the updated questions to you, Madam Minister, are as follows: What measures does the Food Agency take for the final eradication of the disease and prevention of future such diseases, and will compensations be changed for farmers who have completely destroyed herds?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u241	Mr. Danev, thank you for the question, but you know that there is no possibility of being updated unless the Minister considers that he can give this answer, especially if it is about figures, data and so on, and not just facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u242	It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u243	I think the Minister is prepared to give that information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u244	Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u245	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Danev, Prof. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! A lot of data was said in the statement of the question. I'm confirming them with regard to the insecticide treatment plan. With regard to the initial vaccination, 150 thousand were carried out. - if you notice any side effects not listed in this leaflet, please tell your doctor or pharmacist. On May 16, the second shipment of 175,000 arrived. the second stage of the vaccination campaign is being carried out. It is also intended to vaccinate the large ruminants in the bordering municipalities of Turkey: Tsarevo, Malko Tarnovo, Sredets, Bolyarovo, Elhovo, as well as the municipalities of Kardzhali District, Krumovgrad, Kardzhali, Chernočene. The animals from the municipalities of Tvarditsa and Nova Zagora will also be vaccinated, the municipalities of Dragoman, Godech, Slivnitsa, Bozhurishte, Koprivshtitsa, Samokov, Sofia district, Strelcha municipality and Panagyurishte, Pazardzhik district, as well as 89 settlements from the districts of Vidin and Montana, which are located in the 10-km zone of the border with the Republic of Serbia. I specifically spelled them out because I know that this is an interest for farmers. By the end of June 2016, the last 100 thousand are expected to be delivered. - if you are taking or have recently taken any other medicines (see section 2, "Using other medicines"). With regard to insecticide treatment, I would like to say that given the time it has been in the last week, we should say that there is also this insecticide treatment at a time that is appropriate and not just that we have made a treatment and it has no effect. To date, we have confirmed 94 outbreaks in seven areas, 43 settlements, and the seven areas remain the original ones. There's no change. With regard to the benefits, I can say that the compensation, which Mr Danev quoted, is the value of the first outbreaks, where the "Stamping out" method was applied. In all these outbreaks, one of them has herds under selective control. There was also an assessment and the average of a cow under selection control was just over 2 thousand. lv. with different criteria to be determined by a special committee that evaluates these damages. Regarding how we determine these assessments. We define them in accordance with the relevant Regulation for the determination of benefits by using the prices of SAPI. What we are planning and planning to do is where the entire herds are destroyed, we will explore the possibility of determining, of passing on some help to these owners. Of course, this will have to be taken as a decision of the Board of Directors of the State Fund. With regard to the additional measures. All three types of measures that we have taken with vaccination, with insecticide spray, with the "Stamping out" method which has been subjected to the hottest debate but which we are obliged, under the 1992 directive, to apply, should in practice result against all possible vectors of spread of the disease. This disease is new for Europe. It first entered Turkey, Cyprus, then Greece, Greece for a second year now, and we were practically expecting this disease from the end of last year. It is already spreading at a very high speed in Macedonia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Such data is available for neighbouring Serbia. On this occasion, we are also actively communicating with Israel's services, where the disease has been entering since 2012. It is an African disease. I can say that we have full cooperation from the Commission. Moreover, the costs that we have presented, for the time being, and which we are planning to carry out, including with active monitoring control and on Northern Bulgaria, in order to try to limit the entry of the disease and the 75% of them they will be reimbursed to us if they are all done according to the rules, of course, which I do not doubt. There's no way in advance of vaccination...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u246	Let's go in the back, because you have delayed the time for more than a minute and a half, but for Bulgarian farmers this is important. Here's a line for you, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleague Danev thank you for the answer, which was comprehensive in terms of what is being done and respectively what your next steps will be in this direction, but we still want to ask a few supplementary questions, which I think are important. First, in order to obtain benefits from farmers in any form, animals must have passports. They do not have for the most part, and the problem comes from the fact that there are no forms in the Food Agency to be prepared accordingly to present these passports and farmers to receive compensation. The second question that worries me personally is that between the veterinarian and the livestock farmer there is a mutual understanding and a process that they protect animals. At the same time, the Food Agency is tasked precisely with veterinary doctors destroying animals. Why, when disinfecting farms is carried out, are we tasked with doing it outside companies, and when animals are to be killed, the veterinarians who are partners to me must handle this process? It seems to me that in this way we are destroying the trust that should exist in veterinary institutions, but the facts are such. They do it with reluctance and we fully understand them. I would also like to draw attention to the order of the Food Agency, which says that animals that have signs of lumpy dermatitis are destroyed accordingly. But this order is from the time the lumpy dermatitis was established, not when they were vaccinated. Animals are now vaccinated and cannot be specified ten or twenty days are carriers of this virus. There's been a mix-up. Therefore, if you have followed the tension, especially in the southern part of Bulgaria, it was provoked by the fact that we already have a vaccine, but that will not change, provided a positive sample comes out. Finally let me tell you that Bulgaria is a crossroads of people, animals from neighbouring countries, and in recent years we have had an epidemic of blue tongue, anthrax, Newcastle disease, now it is lumpy dermatitis. Perhaps there should be thought of a crisis headquarters dealing mostly with animal health problems and there should be ready solutions in case of problems that are really being implemented as a crisis and not as an accidental problem, which, in my opinion, will facilitate the work of the control bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u248	Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u249	Dear Mr. Chairman! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, to your further questions. Firstly, with regard to the right and procedure to apply the order that we have explained, with corresponding compensation for killing and ear marks. Each owner has an obligation to register his animals in the BABH system. This really is the problem, which is the so-called backyard. When the disease broke out and with my order, by order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, regional epizootic committees were created. In these committees, we have commissioned and asked the mayors of the settlements to help establish farms and animals that are not registered in the Food Agency's system, but should have registration. By the way, the so-called backyard, which is not registered in the official register, cannot therefore be controlled whether all events under the state preventive programme are being carried out, and hence much more difficult is the control of the lawful and the rules of movement, where movement of animals is one of the possible vectors for the transmission of the disease, is one of the problems. So in this sense, yes, the farmer must be registered, of course, in order to benefit from the rights of compensation granted by the State to him in such cases. We in this sense receive help from most mayors of municipalities, who help to identify and establish farms that have not been registered so far. As regards your second additional question about insecticide treatment. I have no information that external companies from the Regional Food Safety Directorates have treated the roads around the farms in the settlements with insecticides, which you inform me of. An external contractor carries out the sweeping of the insecticide spray by aircraft, but neither the Food Agency nor the Ministry have any flight equipment to do it ourselves, but I have not been informed by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, as this spray that they have done and carried out around the farms do so and organise the district food safety directorates themselves. As regards the fulfilment of the obligation to destroy those animals. This regime is also not as ordinary as it seems, so there is also risk. In addition, after the euthanisation of the animals, the farm is re-treated and this must be done with certainty a person with this qualification. I hope that this will already slow down as a pace and for the most part, which are found are with one or two animals. And with regard to the subject of declaring such outbreaks or applying the same method, the stepping out, in this form of outbreaks where they have already been vaccinated, I think we have solved this topic and there are no more cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u250	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We move on to the last question envisaged for today's parliamentary control. He's from professor again. Svetla Bachvarova is also referring to the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court No 3866, concerning the complaint of the Association of Agri-environment Farmers against the amendments to Regulation No 11. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I would like to remind you that last year, in October 2015, the Regulation on Amendment and Supplement 15 in a row was published, of Regulation No 11, which refers to amending the rules on the application of measure 214 "Agro-environment payments' by the Rural Development Programme. They concern the last and last year of the Programme and may be summarized in the following form. First, soil samples are envisaged for analysis. Farmers participating in the Programme undertake to maintain a plant cover throughout the winter of the entire agricultural area described in the Seed Exchange Plan. It is envisaged that the total claim payment under the "Society address for the protection of soils and waters' for applicants who fulfil the requirement for winter cover with intermediate crops, the first pillar, will be EUR 83,83 per hectare. Those amendments to the Ordinance were attacked in the Supreme Administrative Court and, by its order of 5 April 2016, the court suspended § 1 and § 2 of Decree No 11 on the terms and conditions for implementing measure 214. My questions are related to this, first of all, what measure will the Ministry of Agriculture and Food take to implement this order of the court and, secondly, what will happen to the adoption of an application under measure 10 "Agro-environment and climate change', given that the beneficiaries have not yet received written approvals for certain directions, and at the same time the campaign for direct payments for 2016 goes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u252	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. For an answer Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, honourable MPs! According to the complaint lodged by the Association of Agri-environment farmers against the Regulation amending and supplementing Decree No 11 of 6 April 2009 on the terms and conditions for implementing measure 2014 "Agro-geological payments' of the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 - 2013 in the Supreme Administrative Court was initiated administrative case No 12917 of 2015. The original application by the applicant for suspension of the contested Regulation amending and supplementing Regulation No 11 was rejected by order of 26 November 2015. This order was appealed by a private appeal and by order of 5 April was annulled and the court instead ordered the suspension of § 1 and § 2 of the contested regulation. This definition is final and shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation in the Official Journal. The relevant actions for the promulgation of the order shall be taken by the court. The suspension of the legal act shall be pending the entry into force of the final judgment to decide the case. At the moment, there is no promulgation of this definition. Subject to a promulgated definition, this does not affect the progress of the 2016 campaign, which is probably the motive for the question you are asking me. At the same time, the case is on the ground. On 13 April 2016, an administrative hearing was held in Case No 12917 of 2015. By Decision No 4972 of 26 April 2016 in that administrative case, the Supreme Administrative Court of the Eighth Chamber rejected the challenge of a non-profit association Association of agri-environment farmers to the provisions of § 1 of the Ordinance amending and supplementing Decree No 11 of 2009, on the conditions and procedures for implementing measure 214. The Court has held that the challenge is unfounded. The draft Ordinance amending and supplementing Regulation No 11 of 2009 implementing measure 214 and the report thereto, pursuant to art. 26, para. 2 of the Law on Regulatory Acts were published on 25 September 2015 and is on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, and the interested parties were given a 14-day deadline for proposals and opinions on the project. The court considers, on the basis of the reasons, that no material infringements of the administrative and production rules have been allowed when adopting the regulatory act, the principles of art. 26, para. 1 of the Law on Legislative Acts: justification, stability, openness and consistency. The requirement of art. 26, para. 2 of the Law on Legislative Acts "Publish on the website and the deadline for proposals and objections. The legislative act is motivated according to the requirement of art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law The contested texts of the regulation do not conflict with substantive legal provisions and are in line with the purpose of the Agricultural Support Act and the European Regulations on the Implementation of which they were issued, as well as with the existing regulations in the field of support for farmers. Decision No 4272 of 26 April 2016 on the SAC is subject to appeal within 14 days of its notification to the Parties to the Five-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court. With regard to the second question concerning the acceptance of applications under the 10 "Agro-environment and climate', I inform you that, at the moment, notifications to all beneficiaries of whether or not they have been approved have been sent. We are only talking about four directions under the 10 "Agro-environment and climate." They are 1365 benefacturers in the field of "Conservation of habitats of wintering geese and meadow marshmallows in arable land of ornithological importance." The next direction is to maintain the Imperial Eagle's habitats. There we have eight beneficiaries and we have 1046 beneficiaries. They have all been notified to date whether or not they have been approved and to what extent their applications have been approved. Also to date and on these directions there are uploaded SPCs and those of the applicants who want to apply for these directions can do so. As payments under the measures for the 2015 Campaign and the compensatory measures covered by the Agricultural and Climate Programme of the Rural Development Programme are underway, payments under these measures, after the notifications have been sent, are foreseen around mid-June.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u254	Thank you, Madam Secretary. That's a comprehensive answer. For the line.. prof. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues! The question was asked as of mid-April and then still those who applied under the Agroecology and Climate had not received any notifications. But here again there is a problem related to the layer that they stated the previous year. As of this year, it has been reduced for wintering geese, vultures and turning... It is reduced, which means that they cannot fulfil their obligations because they have a three-year commitment. This is a matter that should probably be resolved in terms of no sanctions for those who are in this layer. In addition, there is another problem with those who voluntarily gave up crop rotation. At least until last week, there were a lot of complaints, because they couldn't file a code AP 24 Rather, it is here that the Fund is reinsured, because if this layer is not outlined, it means that we are not fulfilling commitments from the point of view of crop rotation and problems can be created. This was a serious motive to put the question before us several times so that they could also submit their applications. He's in trouble. Those who have given up have no access to the outline. Thus, since they cannot outline, it is assumed that they may not fulfil their obligations, to be sanctioned. Those were their concerns. My request is really with this measure - Agroecology and climate to create prerequisites for it to be applied, as it is necessary for Bulgarian agriculture and not to have such problems because they have accumulated since last year. This year also does not pass without being seriously attacked and discussed by farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u256	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u257	Dear Mr. Chairman, Honourable Professor. Bachvarova! Yes, these measures, of course, have undergone certain amendments that have created uncertainty, questions for farmers, but I have announced, we must be very aware of what this is about. One hundred and eleven thousand farmers are applying, and here we are talking about applicants within just over a thousand people. Second, yes, we have slowed down by maintaining habitats for wintering geese and meadow marshmallows in arable lands. But what is it about this direction? For receiving compensatory payment in cereal crop, when in the respective territory winters the goose and eats part of the grain. First, of course, I should have, if you ask me, the price of grain on the exchanges is 21% lower this year. Secondly, what is the territory where geese and meadow scavengers really winter? In the course of this year, which has passed, we have, of course, received an up-to-date layer of the territory where such geese and meadow marshmallows nest, and he is not who he was two years ago! Including there are excluded territories that are within the range of built wind generators where no one has ever seen such a goose. And I think it's better to have more difficulties than to risk paying money that is practically impractical. I understand that there are changes, but this concerns just over a thousand farmers, all of them have enough administrative capacity to really navigate the many changes that have been made. This is the relative burden of this problem for farmers, more than 111 thousand applicants - 1364. Of course, as funds they are not few. The areas of the notification letters are really reduced and I explain why. It's just the territories where there really are geese according to the organizations that make this territory, it's not the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we just get it, they're different, and that, of course, caused changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-05-20.u258	Thank you, Minister Taneva. This was the last question in today's parliamentary control. To all of you, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant participation in the celebrations of Slavic writing and culture. The next meeting of the National Assembly is on 25 May 2016, Wednesday, 11:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
