ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly from 15 to 17 June 2016: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. Importer: Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Rumen Yonchev, and two bills of the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Private Security Act. Importers: Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs, adopted on the first vote on 25 May 2016 4. First vote on the Bill of Clothing, concealing or hiding the face. Importers: Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Governance. Importer: The Council of Ministers adopted on the first vote on 15 April this year. 6. A bill ratifying the Nagoya Protocol on Access to Genetic Resources and a fair and equal distribution of benefits arising from their use to the Convention on Biological Diversity. Importer: Council of Ministers. 7. Report on the activities of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination for 2015. Importer: Commission for Protection against Discrimination. 8. Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2014 and Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in the period 1 January 9. Administrative Monitoring Report 2014 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration. Importer: Council of Ministers. 10. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Election Code. According to the time the bills were introduced, it was the sequence of importers. The first is with importer Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs; follows the Draft of Mariana Todorova and a group of MPs; the third draft is by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs; the fourth is by Georgi Kadiev; the fifth is by Radan Kanev and a group of MPs; the sixth is by Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs; the seventh is Chetin Kazak and Hamid Hamid. This is scheduled to be point one for Friday, June 17th In accordance with Please vote. 140 MPs voted: 115, against 22, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. An offer has been made under the order of art. 50, para. 3 by Mr. Gorov, who proposes on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP left Bulgaria (BSP) the first vote of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Natural Persons, No 654-01-36 of 17 March 2016, with importer Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. We're listening, Mr. Gorov, to protect your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal is not the first time we've tabled it. What are the main objectives that we set with this Bill? First of all, the elimination of flat tax and the introduction of progressive income tax. This is the most general objective that is set before the Bill. The other objectives we set are: sustainable socio-economic development by applying a differentiated rate of taxation of individuals in the country. Why are we offering this thing? It is obvious that in Bulgaria a large part of Bulgarian citizens fall into huge differences of socio-economic nature and deepen the contradictions on this basis in society. This social inequality is a major factor for both social tension and demographic collapse in Bulgaria. On the one hand, people with low incomes do not have the opportunity to meet their basic needs, thus, of course, delaying opportunities for increasing birth rates. On the other hand, this type of taxation is a major factor for immigration in Bulgaria, and from this point of view we have a strong opinion that this has an impact on the demographic collapse in the country. The goal is for those who receive higher incomes, after all, to receive the greater weight when filling the fissure in the country. The main effect that is aimed at is greater social justice and more opportunities of the lowest income part of the Bulgarian population, the main proposal is that the minimum wage should not be taxed and from then on they should grow progressively. Here I want to reassure some of the colleagues who say that those who receive more should also receive lower taxes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just a second, I apologize for one sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u3	One sentence to finish your thought.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u4	The comfort I want to make is that this is about people who have incomes above BGN 1840 and at the same time, given that more money will remain to be spent by the population, the fisk will not suffer from the point of view that more income will be made through VAT and corporate tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u5	Thank you. Sentences have become more than three.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u6	It is for this reason that I invite you to support this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u7	Colleagues, please vote on the proposed inclusion of this item in our weekly programme. They voted 147 MPs: 64, against 59, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Gorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u8	Colleagues, we do not have the opportunity to make a revolution in taxation at the moment for Bulgaria, all the more so that much of the European countries are being taxed in this way. We make one of the small exceptions in the European Union. It is from this point of view that, taking into account the fact that the majority of the parliamentary groups report themselves as pro-European, I think we should support this bill. Personally, for the last week in Lovech 16 boys and girls went to work in England, given that there is a higher remuneration and the income in Bulgaria invite these people to go to Europe. For this reason, let us allow the majority of Bulgarian citizens to receive higher incomes and remain in Bulgaria and not to stimulate the economies of the European Union. England has been very modern lately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u9	It's a re-vote. Vote 149 MPs: 62, against 65, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We are, above all, a state of parliamentary rule and, as such, Parliament should be an example of perseverance, consistency, rule of law. We need sustainable legislation. Unfortunately, this is not the conclusion of our proposed weekly program. It shows the government's desire to adopt amendments to the Election Code at the expense of parliamentary control. On your Election Code and, in particular, on art. 14 of him, Mr. President vetoed. You have overcome the veto, which leads to the conclusion that you like this article. 14 and maintain your creation. However, immediately after the veto there were proposals from you for a change in art. 14 in one direction or another. This dynamism, this instability in your attitude towards the laws, leads to instability and lack of trust not only in you as lawmakers, but also in the entire legislative process, as well as in the National Assembly. You know that although not on the same subject, but with common ground, the Constitutional Court will also rule in connection with the referendum. Here I will also mention the way in which the amendments and additions of the Election Code were adopted without public discussion, after unstoppable words of several readings...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u11	What's the procedure, Mr. Popov? I'm afraid you won't have time to make the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u12	Now I'm gonna say the procedure. We have offered you sensible and meaningful legislative initiatives, and we are doing it now, but obviously there is no understanding in you of these initiatives, and only the imprudent ones are initiatives of the opposition and we will not accept them as such. We do not wish to be part of this legislative chaos. That's why I'm proposing. 10 of the weekly program should be removed from the program. Do not ruin the little trust left in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u13	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's procedural proposal to postpone this. 10 The first vote of bills to amend and supplement the Election Code of our weekly programme. The proposal is for dropping this point from the program, respectively, for delaying it. We vote. They voted 146 MPs: 47, against 74, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. There's a word for procedure, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Since with such stubbornness and stubbornness you want to look once again, almost worthy of Guinness' record, one member in a law, in an Election Code, at least let us do it as people do. I propose two things that I think should happen today. First, let us have parliamentary control on Friday, as has been agreed in this National Assembly. I understand colleagues from GERB that they want to hide the ministers, that they are uncomfortable, that there are issues that probably make them blush here, nervous, gesture, but this is the job they have to do and answer us. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Therefore, my first proposal is to have parliamentary control on Friday. My second suggestion is that, since you insist so much on discussing the Election Code, this should be the first item on Thursday, so that we can work calmly, have time to discuss, and if we have to, even continue working until later, so that we can hear all those who want to speak on this ridiculous article. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u15	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote Mr. Ermenkov's procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u16	There's two of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u17	I understand you're asking us to vote them separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u19	The first proposal he made during Mr. Ermenkov is to have parliamentary control on Friday, which means dropping the already voted item for the first reading of the seven bills. We are voting on Mr. Ermenkov's proposal to have parliamentary control on Friday. They voted 154 MPs: 62, against 60, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal is Mr. Ermenkov's to shift the sequence of the points in the program. He's proposing a t. 10 The drafts on the Election Code should be viewed as the first item on Thursday. We are voting on Mr. Ermenkov's second procedural proposal. Vote 150 MPs: 57 against 71, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm doing a procedure. 5 - Second vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, from the so-called weekly programme, to be abolished. My arguments are as follows. Madam President, you, as an experienced parliamentarians and a good lawyer, should support my proposal, as the situation is as follows. When the Commission was proposed to vote at second reading on the report of this Bill, it turned out that the proposals made between the first and second votes were not made by MPs, they were not recognized by MPs. They were made by a task force. Yes, there is such a practice in the Bulgarian Parliament to form a working group to summarize the proposals. Members of Parliament have always been involved in this working group, or then these proposals have been recognised by Members of the National Assembly. We are now in a situation where we are going to look at a second vote, proposals that have not been seen in the first vote, are not recognized by MPs and which we will have to support without having that right, as the Rules do not allow us, between the first and second votes, to adopt proposals beyond those of MPs within the prescribed time limits. My suggestion is that this point be withdrawn. I do not know from then on what allows the Boards of Directors to be returned to the Commission or a new bill to be tabled. I don't know what the outcome is from now on. What we're about to do is a rude violation of parliamentaryism. This Law is important for the Bulgarian state. We all want to have electronic control, and we do it in the most vicious way. Dear colleagues, by the way, the reason for this is that the bill is agreed with all ministries, i.e. through all the ministries it has passed, has received a negative opinion after the first vote and therefore the changes have been imposed. However, they are not editorial, they are factual and cannot be pushed under the thesis that they are editorial proposals. My proposal is to drop the t. 5 of the weekly program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u21	Mr. Ananiev, Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Communications, who is the leader of this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u22	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am inverse. I disagree with my colleague Svilensky's findings. In principle, as per the Rules of Procedure, if there are proposals under art. 80 of the subs, they are recognized by MPs. We've done our best. The law has been adopted in the Commission as per the Rules of Procedure. The bill is very important and we need to look at it as soon as possible. First of all, it's very bulky and big, so we're gonna need some time. Given that we have declared e-government, e-voting and, in principle, the so-called e-government.................................... as a priority of the government, we should adopt this Law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u23	I put to the vote Mr. Svilenski's proposal to drop out of our weekly program the second reading of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance. They voted 145 MPs: 50, against 66, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Svilensky. My request is that you don't come to the point, but just do your re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u24	Of course, Madam President, I will do the re-vote procedure, but I cannot fail to respond to the President of the Commission, as what he said from this platform is not true. None of the texts voted at second reading proposed by the working group are recognized by MPs. [[Replying, noise and shouting from GERB.]] There are colleagues here who are involved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u25	That's an honest lie.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u26	What's honest... Okay, we'll read the report and read the transcript.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u27	Tell me what you are proposing under the procedure, because clearly by the essence of what you say there are disputes in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u28	I suggest re-voting and dropping the point from the program.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u29	Thank you. Revoting, coworkers. Vote 149 MPs: 55 against 77, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the time of 8 June 2016: - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers: Willy Lilkov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Importers: Manol Genov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; - It's a concession bill. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Environment and Water, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Energy; - Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process in 2015. Importer: The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead; - Report on the activities of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, including financial statement for the months of January. Importer: The Director-General of BTA. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media; - Draft decision to invite the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria to present to the National Assembly a report on the activities of the Prosecutor's Office on the implementation of the CCB case law. Importers: Valeri Simeonov, Martin Dimitrov, Methodie Andreev and Petar Slavov. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs; - A bill to supplement the Value Added Tax Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the administrative courts in 2015. Importer: Supreme Judicial Council. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to amend and supplement the Commercial Law. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 10 June this year in the National Assembly on the basis of art. 20, para. 2 of the Public Sector Financial Management and Control Act received a consolidated Annual Report on Internal Control in the Public Sector in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 1 January " 31 December 2015" submitted by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. By my letter, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The report is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Stoynev.. a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, here is the letter. [[Shows a letter.]] Here is the letter from Brussels, which was not there, which was not true, which stirred up so many spirits and, as always GERB, which ruled, for the last seven years five and a half years are trying to blame someone else again. Let's be realistic, ladies and gentlemen, and see exactly what this letter says. The Commission does not trust the authority responsible. The European Commission does not recognise the checks carried out by the authority responsible. It is clear from the letter that the systems in the Fund are not working. They don't believe the documents presented because there are discrepancies. The letter states that during the audit mission of the Directorate-General for Agriculture, the European Commission in January this year was paid attention to shortcomings in the work of the Bulgarian authorities. Even then, we have been warned of the consequences, but in four months, adequate measures have not been taken. In Annex 4, I repeat, Annex 4 of this letter gives the following assessment: The Commission shall not fully accept the conclusions of the certification body report. The State Fund has failed to comply correctly with the requirements of European legislation and therefore the Directorate-General for Agriculture does not recognise the funds paid in 2015. This means that for now these funds remain at the expense of the state budget. Ladies and gentlemen, why is this letter hidden? Why does a deputy minister scare the Bulgarian media with lawsuits if they write on this topic? Or is it already forbidden to reflect the opposition's opinion? Why is the government afraid of freedom of speech? In the letter from Europe, they literally tell you that the European Commission cannot obtain sufficient assurance that the costs have been incurred under European Union rules. It is not just a bureaucratic document, but an official sign from Europe. Your most effective, most successful ad trick has come down that the European Commission supports GERB in the absorption of European funds. But how can they support you, ladies and gentlemen of the government? I give you one example: look at the repair of the NPC! Thirteen million leva for what? The tiles on the ground have been the same since 1982. lv. for trees and bushes. Where did you get these trees and shrubs from Latin America, from Asia?! Let the media check it out. Moreover, there are additional anexes for additional costs on this project. You were so quick to cut the tape that you left the people without access to their homes. Every night we witness protests. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Maritsa Highway after you cut the tape, it fell and closed it. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Is that right? It's true! I have one great concern, ladies and gentlemen, I hope only from next year it does not start falling and the styrofoam that you glued to people's apartments that then we will borrow again for the same job. You're advising us to walk around the country to see reality. We're part of reality and we don't only meet people when they have to cut ribbons, but that's not the point. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] The main thing that is useful is: what happens to our country ours, yours, to all Bulgarians? It is time for you to see and understand that you are putting this country at great risk! It is time to forget your party selfishness and think not about power, but about the Bulgarian people and, if you cannot, it is time to leave, because it will follow the effect of dominoes in other spheres. Either way, you're going to collapse, why do you have to drag with you and the state? The question now is, ladies and gentlemen, where is the money? The public knows where the money is. Unfortunately, now the scary question is: with what money will you cover the unpredictable costs with new loans, with new debt over the already accumulated 17 billion, with tightening the tax noose and administrative racketeering over the business? All this will drag the economy down, destroy the prospects of our country, impose generations of Bulgarians. You're accusing us of having an election attack. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] You're wrong! BSP is not GERB, it does not live in the short horizon from elections to elections, it does not eat with mandates. We raise the topic because it is important for the state, for the Bulgarians because the most responsible solution and reaction must be found. And for the election, there will be one who does not lie. Your incompetence will cost the Bulgarian people too much. Your stability, I mean the stability of the government, not to prove instability and further deprivation for generations of Bulgarians after you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time for early elections. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u31	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of GERB Ms. Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u32	Honourable Members, Madam President! The presidential campaign started a month ago when Mrs. Ninova became chairman of this party. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] From the platform of parliament and not only the media are lying, frank lies from a failed party. A Party To Be in Power [[Applause from GERB]] I put up with a year and a half of protests. [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Closed parliament, we all remember going through the enclosures. We remember, only yesterday was three years since the white bus was here saving them. [[(Shouting:) Bravo! Bravo! (Applause from GERB.)]] What are you talking about, hypocrites? You made a deal with the devil to stay in power. Don't you remember what was happening here and how you didn't allow the opposition to speak? I'll just tell you that when we came to power, the Rural Programme was returned to work with 426 remarks and, nevertheless, the Ministry of Agriculture did wonders so that this Programme could go, start and pay off. Everything you say is full of lies because you're incompetent. The gentleman who spoke here, from this tribune, has never seen a European commissioner in his eyes, because he was the man who sent letters, and you were not wanted in Brussels. [[Applause from GERB.]] Everything you say is funny. People see. There's this letter on the agricultural ministry's website, and only people who understand it can talk. Unfortunately, everything is upside down with you. You understand everything, and that's why you're in this mess. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u33	You recognized yourself in your speech because by name... [[The President addressed MP Dragomir Stoinev. Applause by GERB.]] She didn't mention it by name, but he recognized himself. That's what the Service says when someone recognizes themselves, I have to give them the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u34	Thank you, Madam President. If it's called the man who spoke before, it's me. Ladies and gentlemen of GERB, on the contrary, the negotiations with Mr Oettinger were very difficult and fierce. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] The pity is that after us you went to the offices and slandered Bulgaria in Brussels and spoke against the national interest. Is that right? That's what it was like at those meetings you had! [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Secondly, for the famous remarks on the Rural Programme. Ladies and gentlemen, those were not remarks. This was a debate on policies because the national interest was then advocated... what policy should be held in the.............................................................................................. You came from GERB and accepted everything the European Commission tells you. That's the difference between you and me. We've always been about defending state interests. For BSP the state interest is above all else, even over the European interest. Thank you. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u35	Mrs. Ninova wants a personal explanation. She was the only one mentioned by name by Mrs. Karayancheva. Everyone else who's recognized each other will have the opportunity to explain themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u36	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you repeated the words of the Prime Minister from a week ago, addressed to Plamen Oresharski, and they were: "We are not so short-lived not to remember that the people expelled them during their year. We're not so short-lived to know that he interrupted his term early. What are you telling me about a man who has been expelled from the people?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u37	Who? Who? Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u38	Who? I feel like Mr. Borisov was talking about himself. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In 2013, February "remember the protests with which the people rose against the price increase and brought down Borisov's government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u39	How many days did the protests last?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u40	Let us recall that this is the only cabinet and the only prime minister for whom 20 Bulgarians set themselves on fire. [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]] This is the only office that has shed blood in recent years right here in front of you! When you talk about the White Quest and the fact that the people have expelled someone, do not think that we and the people are so short-lived that we do not remember 2013. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] This is about history and your habit of always transferring responsibility back to Oresharski, to Stanishev, to Jean Videnov and to Khan Asparuh. All right! It's your habit. Do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u41	You're not lying!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, this is not beneficial for Bulgaria, Mr. Tsvetanov. All these objections, all these transfers of responsibilities don't solve the problem. Currently, Bulgaria's problem is called the government of Boyko Borisov and GERB. This billion and 100 million will have to be returned to the Bulgarian people. You'll get them from them! That's the big problem, because you're gonna get a loan to cover it! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Because we're going into a debt spiral. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u44	Because there's no way out of this job, no matter how much you go back, the future is black as long as you're in charge of the state. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u45	Pointing fingers at Mr. Delyan Dobrev for a personal explanation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u46	Thank you, Madam President. In my opinion, in our Rules on finger pointing, a remark should be made. I'm taking a personal explanation to explain to Mr. Stoinev and let him not speculate, and remember what he did at his time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u47	The mailman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u48	Some called him the mailman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u49	That's what I call it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u50	During your time Mr. Stoynev was stopped and South Stream was stopped. In your time, you made a procedure that you announced at Christmas and finished it on New Year's Eve, and increased the price by 1 billion. EUR without giving anyone the opportunity to participate in this procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u51	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u52	Thanks to your actions, Bulgaria has no South Stream today because you were trying to circumvent all European rules. [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] During your time, we were sent a letter by the lawyers of Belene that the state does not assist in the protection of the state interest in the procedure under Belene. As for Mrs. Nino, I understand in the last month that she is trying to be very active as a new chairman. In the beginning, we heard some kite readings that are going to go around the country, and I guess they're going to have a propaganda committee that's going to tell them, "Here's these point points to lie to people....."because what you're doing these days is lying and you're embarrassing yourself a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u53	Let's get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u54	Instead of shutting up at some point, you keep rubbing. [[Applause from GERB.]] Since yesterday, it has also become clear that such a billion and a hundred million are not stopped.................... the money has been transferred.......................................................................... Stop saying there's a billion and a half or a billion and a hundred million stopped because the money's been wired.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u55	No, we're not gonna stop talking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u56	You're embarrassing yourself! That doesn't work for you! You're trying to be very active, but in the end it happens that steam goes into the whistle. [[Applause from GERB.]] Here the Admiral will explain to you that steam instead of going into the steam engine goes into the whistle and has no effect of this work, except that you embarrass yourself too much in front of the entire Bulgarian society. [[Applause from GERB.]] Bulgarian society remembers who they stop the money and who they give it to.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u57	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u58	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u59	Mr. Tsvetanov, by name. Colleagues, I suggest we end this and start 45 minutes in the middle of nowhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Ninova! I believe that when we vote on the weekly programme, we should strive to realise what we have pledged to vote in plenary. I understand your enthusiasm to turn things around, but we saw what you did at the end of your term in 2005. We know what you did at the end of your term at Plamen Oresharski. The Bulgarian voters are the ones who said who should govern and who should repeat the management mandate, and this is Prime Minister Boyko Borisov! [[Applause from GERB.]] Because of your policy, local authorities were about to be unable to complete the old financial programming period. Ms. Ninova, when you talk about European money, about money stopped, let us remind you that 2013 had to sign the agreement with the European Commission on the new financial programming period, which, notice, started on 1 January 2014. Twice this agreement was returned to Plamen Oresharski because of non-com-pe-tent and inability to implement these management programs! [[Applause from GERB.]] Just so you know, this Agreement was signed September by the Office in 2014. Ms. Ninova, 2014 and real 2015. Yes, we are in fun during the new financial programming period, but this is thanks to you and what we are doing right now is really starting the real policies and having visible results for Bulgaria, which people saw in 2015 and voted for GERB, and we won the elections! Of 265 municipalities, 130 are GERB and the population that lives in these municipalities is over five and a half million! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Mrs. Ninova, elections are coming, you have your right, you have your strategy. Our strategy is to work, to work to have visible results for Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u61	Mr. Tsvetanov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u62	...and to be a truly strong side of the European Union, and to hear Bulgaria's strong voice through Prime Minister Boyko Borisov! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u63	Mr. Bajraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u64	Thank you, Madam President. I'm taking procedure the way it is. In the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, it is clearly and accurately written in which cases the floor for personal explanation is given. In order not to be violated, as I see that there are again people who want to explain themselves if they want to... to go out on the sidelines to explain themselves. Fifty minutes we spend money on the Bulgarian taxpayer in, with an apology, the measure of ego "political ego." Come on, guys, I really do support your call, too. [[turns to President Tsetska Tsacheva]] Let's start working because 50 minutes of money has been spent by the Bulgarian taxpayer. If you want to measure them, I say again, go out and measure them there in the towers. I expect now someone to come out and start chanting and Bulgarians to become even more interesting. Thank you for your attention. I really hope for constructive and responsible behavior.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u65	Colleagues, can we start working on the program? The way you're holding Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u66	Mrs. Tsacheva, I disagree with your assessment, which, first of all, is inadmissible under the Rules of Procedure, but this is a technical issue. You can't say anything for 45 minutes because you deny the right of a parliamentary group to come up with a declaration on a matter that is nothing. It's a very big question! The question is stopped money and 16 billion loans! The question is very much for every Bulgarian. If it's nothing to you here, and that's how you define this topic, just this little word, nothing at all, most of all talking about who you are, what you're here for and what you're doing! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u67	The way you're holding Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u68	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to make a sharp remark to you that you have given the BSP Parliamentary Group right twice for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group - one time to Mr. Dragomir Stoinev and a second time to Mrs. Nino, who took the procedure in the manner of conduct, but in fact spoke essentially and you did not interrupt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u69	For a personal explanation, I took the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u70	Moving on to the first point of our weekly program: THE SECOND CONVERSION OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW ON ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CONVERSIONS WITH COMPANIES REGISTERED IN JURISDICATIONS WITH PREFERENCE, RELATED TO THESE PERSONS AND THEIR ACTUAL OWNINGS. Report on the second vote of the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, related persons and their actual owners. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will begin the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u71	Honourable President, I ask for a procedure in this House to be admitted representatives of the Ministry of Finance, namely: Mr. Fezi Bekir Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Irina Hristova Head of Department in the same Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u72	We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 112 MPs: 109 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u73	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Economic and Financial Relations Act with companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and related persons and their actual owners, No 502-01-92, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 November This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In the name of the law, the words............................. are replaced by those controlled by........................................................................ are The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u74	Statements? The word has the MP Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposals we are about to vote on may seem very important, but they are not. On the one hand, we have recommendations from the European Commission to drop the Law a little bit, as some of the texts represent discriminatory legislation. However, my question is to the importer, I would ask them to make some clarification. On the one hand, we will allow offshore participation in companies that carry out a number of activities - banks, insurers, pension insurance companies - as long as the participation does not exceed 10%.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u76	That's by § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u77	I'm sorry, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u78	Are there any lines? I guess there won't be any. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 73, none, abstention 7. The name of the Law and § 1, 2 and 3 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u79	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the words.......................................................................................................... 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the words "regarding the percentage of participation and the number of shares it wishes to acquire" shall be replaced by "when the participation rate constitutes a qualifying holding within the meaning of the same law." 3. Points 2 and 3 are amended as follows: "2." participation in a procedure for obtaining a licence to carry out an insurance or reinsurance activity under the Insurance Code or participation in a company engaged in such activity where the percentage of participation constitutes a qualified participation within the meaning of the Insurance Code; 3. participation in a procedure for obtaining a licence to carry out activities as an additional social security company under the Social Security Code or participation in such a company where the participation rate represents 10 or more than 10 per cent of the company's capital; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "regarding the percentage of participation or the number of shares or shares it wishes to acquire' shall be replaced by "where the participation rate constitutes a qualified participation within the meaning of the same law'. 5. point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. participation in a procedure for obtaining a licence, authorisation or registration under the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other undertakings for collective investment or participation in a company holding a licence, authorisation or registered under the same law where the percentage of participation constitutes a qualifying participation within the meaning of that law. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "regarding the percentage of participation or the number of shares or holdings' shall be replaced by "where the participation rate constitutes a qualifying holding within the meaning of the same law'. 7. point 7 is amended as follows: "7." participation in a concession procedure for sites and properties, public property, including a concession for extraction, a permit for search and exploration or for exploration of underground riches, a concession on a coastal beach, Republican roads, where participation in the applicant for concession or authorisation is 10 or more per cent. 8. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 12 shall be added at the end when the rate of participation provides 10 or more per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting of the legal person. 9. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 A certificate for investment class A, class B, class B or class B is added after the words. 10. point 17 is amended as follows: Seventeen. participation in a procedure for granting authorisation to an undertaking providing public electronic communications networks and/or services under the Law on Electronic Communications, respectively acquisition of participation in such an undertaking where the percentage of participation provides 10 or more than 10 per cent of the voting rights of the general assembly of the legal person; 11. point 19 is amended as follows: "19." participation in a concession or contract award procedure for the collection and disposal of waste, disposal of waste in landfills or other facilities or for the maintenance of the cleanliness of public use areas; 12. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 20 the word "Secretary" is replaced by "Secretary" and finally added "Secretary" as well as to companies that measure radio and television ratings when the participation rate provides 10 or more than 10 per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting of the legal person. 13. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 21 shall be added at the end when the rate of participation provides 10 or more per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting of the legal person. 14. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 22 is finally added when the participation rate of the private partner in the public-private partnership is 10 or over 10 percent. 15. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 23 shall be added at the end when the rate of participation provides 10 or more per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting of the legal person. 16. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 27 is finally added when the rate of participation of the State or municipality in the trading company is 33 or over 33 per cent.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I was trying to say before, we are in a hypothesis that, on the one hand, we need to loosen some of the bans on economic activity, because indeed the texts that are in force today are quite restrictive, and here the European Commission rightly has concrete proposals to correct some of the texts. At the same time, when it comes to structurally defining companies for the economy, it is very important to respect our national interest, so here we are in a complex situation that requires some balancing. My question to the importer, and I will ask them here to make some clarification, is that on the one hand, an offshore participation is allowed in a company carrying out a number of activities, for example banks, insurance companies, pension insurance companies, waste management companies and so on, as long as the participation does not exceed 10%. That makes sense because it requires European Union law. At the same time, however, the rules for a number of companies, such as participation in public procurement, participation in privatisation, direct negotiation with a public authority and so on, have not changed. In these cases, even 1% offshore participation means a ban on participating in the competition. My question to the importer is: don't you think this represents discrimination for some of the ceiling to be 10% and for others to be 0.001%? How do you explain this apparent discrimination against companies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u83	Mr. Trenchev, when changes have been made to the so-called "Offshore Company Act', there are in fact only changes that are recommended by the European Commission as a result of one-year, one-and-a-half correspondence with it and which, in practice, we are trying to adopt and enter into accordance with European Union law as a maximum, as possible, to remain as a reference to the participation of offshore companies in a number of important to society, projects or public companies. This was the reason why there was no change in the other texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u85	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you know, the current law we are discussing has been passed in the last parliament. I think this is one of the achievements of Bulgaria. It is one of the countries that introduced restrictions for companies registered in special regime areas to be largely isolated from the Bulgarian economy, especially not to have access to public funds. Because it is perfectly healthy that companies which enjoy a more favourable tax regime and companies that try to hide the actual owners are unable to work where the State or municipalities finance certain activities or they are of significant public interest. The changes that are being proposed now are a step in the opposite direction. It became clear that they were made under the European Commission, because there is a more liberal regime within the European Union. But I think that Bulgaria should start to speak with a stronger voice with the European institutions, especially since very recently scandals have arisen. They are not the first, but this time they were quite wide-ranging about the information about such companies, which operate in different areas and where many people are involved, which have an impact on making important decisions for the countries. Even in the European Parliament, there was talk about how to start discussing and proposing restrictions that are intended to lighten the economy, limit the escape of capital from countries, reduce money laundering and the various financial levers that affect unhealthy the governance of countries, and even global finances. If this discussion in Europe will last too long, I think countries like Bulgaria can speed it up without responding to such recommendations. Because we are not threatened by such a phase of activation of sanctum procedures that can confront us with severe decisions that have financial consequences. Because at the moment financial capital is exerting a much more powerful impact than the citizens of European countries on European Union decisions. You can see the consequences of this fact that currently mistrusting the European Union in the 10 countries has come out these days a study varies from very high values, with the lowest being about half of the citizens. On this path you see what problems the European Union will face and if we want to participate in an organisation that meets the real economic interests of the countries, the interests of the multitude of citizens, we should be much more critical and Bulgaria should set the standards, want them to be distributed and perceived and not make a retreat. What does that 10% mean? If they want these companies to participate and receive money from countries, they will restructure their capital. Once they have decided to allow such capital to enter into them, they will stand by their competitive advantages anyway, and they will be able to work on the free market. You're very concerned about the free market, aren't you? What is this free market in which one enjoys privileged financial conditions that hide its actual owners, and inter-program this applies to a large part of modern global companies? That is why statehood is being destroyed, so the economy is acting in a way that, instead of strengthening companies and production, in fact, financial capital is mainly entering to buy, restructure companies and sell them, and often expropriating them through impacts that result in rapid profits, but collapse of large industries, loss of jobs and so on. These are big topics, and I therefore urge you to vote against this text. By the core of the law, it creates this liberalisation, as said in relation to banks, insurance companies, pension companies, concessions, public procurement, public-private partnerships. So there is the big problem and I think that Bulgaria should not give in there. Because that the European Commission is telling us something, we are turning it into a law of God that we are not trying to influence and change this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? Welcome for a reply.. the People's Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stoilov, after your five-minute speech I thought that you have read carefully, first of all, the Law on Public Offering of Securities. You made a very interesting remark that companies had to restructure their capital. Mr. Stoilov, if a company is public and under this Public Offering Act, it has obtained the right to deposit, that is, to offer, shares on the stock exchange, you and I, if we register one such company and have obtained the right to offer our shares on the exchange, that is to say, to give certain entities the right to become owners of part of the capital by owning shares, tell me in what way can we tell who to buy and to whom not to buy from our shares? I'm asking you, how is this going to work? The second thing, in the period 2005 - 2007 the government of the three coalition then closed the chapters of the negotiations for Bulgaria's accession to the European Union in an accelerated manner. However, the 1957 Treaty in Rome has set the functioning of the European Union on three main pillars. One of them is the free movement of capital. Here we have to comply with this decision of the Treaty of Rome since 1957. In the rest I would agree with you and I would even support you by adding Recommendation 204 of the International Labour Organisation to deal with the informal economy not only in Bulgaria, but also in the territory of the entire European Union. In this part, however, I cannot not replicate you, because this is an impossible action, unfortunately, and it is in fact blocking the economic processes in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoilov, I would be more cautious when I make announcements about spectacular achievements in the legislative initiatives of the previous government, as it becomes clear from this statement that you are not well aware of the texts you have adopted. In real terms, Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be applied to the general budget of the European Union and that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are to be applied to the general budget of the Union. 30 are listed quite restrictive measures where an offshore company may participate, but it is good to read also the next article. 4, which regulates exceptions. If you have little idea of a market economy and how the open market works, you will see that these three exceptions include almost all important structural-determining companies. Thus, we seem to have a very restrictive law that prohibits offshore companies from participating in structurally determining for our economy companies, but de facto almost all major and significant for the Bulgarian economy companies fall into the exceptions of art. 4, so take it easy on the fundamental achievements. Generally, you are right that we must respect our national interest, which is clearly owned by large employers, large taxpayers. However, the law we have at the moment is like Swiss cheese pierced, with too many exceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Stoilov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bajraktarov, I also take your line in part, but where you claim one of the fundamental principles of the European Union for the free movement of capital, I think it needs to be dealt with with with a certain restriction, because there are several principles in place and they cannot dominate without any distinction over others. In my opinion, it is not a restriction on the principle of free movement of capital that they will not have absolutely free access to public funds. If they want to have access to the money that the citizens collect and who spend the state will have to comply with additional requirements so that this can be in the interests of countries and citizens. If this is how we understand the Treaty of Rome, it can act. If there are disputes over this understanding, this discussion must be brought to a European level, because in my opinion, we cannot talk about real and equal competition if one of the companies has privileged access to these funds. With regard to the other part of your reply, I agree that the case is very difficult to solve for those public companies offering their shares, because then indeed, if they decide to release a certain share of their shares, they cannot control who they fall into. However, I propose that we discuss these issues because, firstly, they are complex; and secondly, they may find a solution. Such a solution today is not and we need to assess how to act in this process, not to use the complex problems as an excuse to use the doors more widely, as Mr. Trenchev said. The law that acted was pierced as Swiss cheese. So let's put some more holes in it so there's nothing left full of anything! This is the objection to my proposals. However, you do not propose in these three areas you are talking about to include them in the restrictive list, but you say they have been missed in the previous Law. When it was adopted, and not at the initiative of the government, but the initiative is from parliament and is adopted in parliament; if we waited for the government, neither this nor probably the previous ones would have proposed such a law, there were written texts about such restrictions regarding companies buying land that control the media and so on. Therefore, you should make your suggestions to complete the list, not to say that because there are gaps, we should make the regime even more free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. To speak, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u93	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman! I want to make a retrospective of what happened and how it happened to get us today to correct and change the Law. After the adoption of the Law in the summer of 2014, Bulgaria received a detailed letter from the European Commission, stating clearly and categorically what are the texts in the adopted Law which contradict the law and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Further, the Bulgarian Government, by letters of its own, repeatedly answers the questions, as well as motives that protect to one extent or another the texts adopted by us. The correspondence from July 2014 continued throughout the year, including until December 2015, when it was also the Commission's last letter, with which they accepted some of our arguments and with others definitely disagree. We are making adjustments to those texts which are categorically contrary to European Union law. I would like to say that with the beginning of correspondence with the European Union, a formal infringement procedure has actually been opened. If this formal procedure ends with our failure to accept and change those texts in the Law which are controversial in the Commission, this means that the next step will be a claim to the Court of Justice of the European Union. You know that such a claim most often ends with a great fine which will ultimately bear the state. It is no less important, even more frightening, that, apart from a possible fine by the European Union, this gives grounds for all companies affected by the more restrictive regime in these texts to bring claims for the responsibility of the Bulgarian state, which will repeatedly exceed this fine. These are financial threats if we do not take these actions. I believe that, indeed, the European Union's right in this direction must become more restrictive. That is why the debate must be brought to the European Parliament and those changes to European Union law take place, which would give other countries the right to be more restrictive. Regardless of the adjustments we make, it must be clear that our Law remains as restrictive as possible and creates conditions for companies and their actual owners to be clear to the maximum extent, companies that will participate in one or another important area of our economic life. I want to tell you that you have obviously not been thoroughly acquainted with the Law, and you are not a member of our Commission. We have had a discussion in the Commission on these texts for quite some time. They are provided, all correspondence is provided to the MPs involved in the Budget Committee. Discussion is being held and the result of this discussion is today's proposal. I would like to note to the Members of the National Assembly that in art. 6 of the Law, which we are now amending, is written down that in the Commercial Register the circumstances and data of companies registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime, which, directly or indirectly, carry out or will carry out activities under art. 3 These are the activities described, and notice, as well as data on their owners. So we guarantee by the texts of this Law that all offshore companies participating in companies in one way or another, companies that will carry out activities described in art. 3, and they are not few at all, their actual owners will be made public. So we shouldn't consider this a circumstance that we don't even know who or why he's coming here. That's the flashback. I believe that the adjustments we make make make the Law less restrictive, but I believe that we, as an initiative country, should start this debate in the structures of the European Commission and the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u94	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the generally supported text of the importer for § 4 of the Commission, which is edited by the same, and has found a place in its report. We are voting § 4 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 91 MPs: 68 against 11, abstention 12. Paragraph 4 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 5 the Commission has an Additional Report No 653-02-21 of 18 March 2016 on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with companies registered in the jurisdiction and preferential tax regime, the persons associated with them and their actual owners. According to § 5 there is a proposal of the MPs Dimitar Delchev, Nastimir Ananiev, Boyka Marinska, Dimitar Tanev, Antony Trenchev and Nayden Zelenogorski. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 3a: "The Rules on Countering Abuse" Art. 3a. In the case of participation of two or more companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime and/or persons controlled by them in the procedures under art. 3, the thresholds introduced in art. 3, p. 1-7, 12, 17, 20-23 shall apply in total and may not be exceeded. The thresholds shall be set and applied in general where two or more companies registered in jurisdictions with a preferential tax regime are under general control or one of them controls the other/other companies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u96	You have the floor for speeches, Members of Parliament. Here you go, Mr. Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here the fundamental question is this: when we have an important company for the economy, a bank, a pension company or some kind of fund, do we want to know whose owners they are, or do we not want to know whose owners they are? One of the exceptions that is currently valid is that when we have an offshore company, it can own up to 10%, for example 9,99%, and we with 11 companies to own a construction company, completely anonymously with 11 companies at 9,99%. Our proposal was, no matter how many companies there were, not to exceed 10% in total. This is important because, obviously, when it comes to companies that raise funds from Bulgarian citizens, we want to know whose property they are. The main problem is that this is where the adjustment is proposed to apply when there is some kind of connection between offshore companies. The problem, nature, meaning and general design of the offshore company is that you cannot know exactly who its owner is. It is very clear to those who enter matter that there are such services from these offshore areas, such as an appointed director, even an appointed shareholder. So we can very easily put some person who is hollow in substance to look as if it is clear who owns and owns this company, as there seems to be nothing in common between these This is the problem that we are trying to address here, and if we fail to do so through these changes, we will have to draw up a whole new offshore law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Trenchev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I close the debates and move on to the vote of § 5 by importer, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same. We are voting § 5 on the Commission's Additional Report. Please vote. Vote 112 MPs: 93 against 2, abstention 17. Paragraph 5 of the Commission's Additional Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u99	According to § 6 of the Additional Report there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev in the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are 1. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: s 3 and 3a do not apply where: 2. Point 1 amends as follows: "1." The shares of the company which directly or indirectly participates in a company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime shall be traded on a regulated market or a multilateral trading system in a Member State of the European Union or in another State, a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or on an equivalent regulated market established by a Financial Supervision Commission Regulation, and the company shall be subject to the transparency law of the European Union with regard to information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market or on a multilateral trading system, or equivalent international standards and the beneficial owners of natural persons shall be disclosed in accordance with the relevant special law. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is finally added to its actual owners - natural persons, are entered in the register of art. 6.................................................................................. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 the word "supreme" is replaced by "supplied" in the register under art. 6s and after the word....... or multilateral trading system................................................................................................. 5. They're creating a t. 5.. It's five o'clock. the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime is a resident for tax purposes of a State Party to the World Trade Organisation's Government Procurement Agreement and of a State with which the European Union has a bilateral agreement guaranteeing access to the public procurement market in the European Union and its beneficial owners are registered in the register of art. 6 for the activities to which the Agreement applies; 6. the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime shall be resident for tax purposes in an overseas country or territory under Council Decision 2013/755/EU of 25 November 2013 on the association of overseas countries and territories with the European Union and its owners of natural persons shall be entered in the register of art. 6 for the activities to which the decision applies; 7. the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime is resident for tax purposes of a country with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international trade and/or economic agreement, including obligations under the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation and its owners of natural persons, are entered in the register of art. 6; 8. the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime is part of an economic group whose parent company is resident for tax purposes of a country with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded an international trade and/or economic agreement, including obligations under the General Agreement on Trade in Services of the World Trade Organisation and its beneficial owners, natural persons are entered in the Register of Commerce and Industry. art. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My statement is related even to what Mr. Trenchev said about the previous paragraph. In this paragraph, in fact, there are two, there are proposals that, if we accept them, I think the whole Law will be a little futility. We adopt some rules in laws that will not apply to companies related to countries of the European Union. More precisely, I am talking about points 7 and 8, which create some exceptions, which Bulgaria, if there are no close links or the possibility of exchanging tax information, but only an arrangement in the field of services, will in principle nullify the entire Law. I think points 7 and 8 should just drop out and make such an editorial proposal. I just don't understand why they're in there, and if they're in there, the law becomes meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u103	Mr. Ananiev, points 5 to 8 are an explicit request from the European Commission. This is also the essence of their procedure for non-compliance with this Law with European law. However, we must not forget, and I have read it several times at every point, that it is ultimately about companies whose real owners, which mean to the end, to the actual owner, are clear and are listed in the public Trade Register as such. This is, in fact, both the protection and our guarantee that we will know who are behind these companies and are involved and enjoy this exception that the European Union is insisting on and, in fact, this is its main demand.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u104	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u105	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, bear in mind that in this hypothesis we do not have close links and the possibility to exchange tax information, but only an arrangement in the field of services. I don't see first, it's not explicitly written about these scenarios. They've been developed here with us. What they want from Europe is a few specific cases, but it is precisely those that are for points 7 and 8, which make the entire Law slightly meaningless simply by having these options for offshore companies, and that is why I personally think that this option should be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Nastimir Ananiev for dropping points 7 and 8 of the text thus proposed to you, adopted by the Commission. Please vote. We are voting on a proposal made by the MP Nastimir Ananiev. They voted 116 MPs: 25, against 40, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission in principle and edited by the same. We are voting § 6 of the Commission's additional report. Please vote. Vote 119 MPs: 90 against 15, abstentioned 14. Paragraph 6 of the Commission's additional report has been adopted. Paragraph 7 of the basic report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u107	According to § 7 "A proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova under the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." Article 3, t. 1 The person to whom the prohibition relates may not exercise the rights of the shares, shares or other forms of participation in the company or institutions concerned directly or indirectly held by the person concerned; (b) c. 2 the words "to use' shall be replaced by "or to study the underground'; (c) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. Article 3, t. 13 The issue of an investment class A, class B, class B or priority investment project under the Investment Promotion Act is refused, respectively, when issued; (d) c. 9 after the word "Secretary" shall be added, and the words "Secretary" shall be withdrawn in cases where it has been issued shall be replaced by "Secretary" when it has been issued; (e) c. 11 the word..................................................................................................................................................................................... (f) n. 13 is amended as follows: "13." Article 3, t. In the event of the transaction being declared invalid, the commercial company with 33 or more than 33 per cent State or municipal participation in the capital shall be refused, respectively; in the event of the transaction being declared invalid, the commercial company with 33 or more than 33 per cent State or municipal participation in the capital shall not be liable to repay the transaction received, as well as compensations and benefits. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the cases referred to in para. 1 where on the basis of an exception under art. 4 a contract has been concluded and the non-compliance in the data has been removed within three months from the date of establishment of the non-compliance in such a way as to allow for the application of an exception under art. 4, the contract shall not be terminated and shall not be declared invalid respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u108	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let me read to you once again the proposal for art. 3, p. 27, and try to listen to it however: In the event of the transaction being declared invalid, the commercial company with 33 or more than 33 per cent State or municipal participation in the capital shall be denied the conclusion of contracts, respectively, and shall not be entitled to return to the transaction, as well as compensation and benefits. I am not a lawyer, but for me this proposal is unconstitutional because it creates inequality. It turns out that if a contract is terminated, the State and the municipality do not return what is received and all other persons must. Why are you actually doing this thing?! I'm making an editorial suggestion that this point should be dropped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u110	Which dot exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u111	Under art. 33, p. 27............................................... 13 of the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u112	Paragraph 7 of Paragraph 7 for changes in paragraph 7. Art. 13, where amended 3, p. 27?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u114	Mr. Ananiev's lines? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote first the motion to drop out, which made Mr. Ananiev in § 7 on the report of the person who submitted the letter is to fall. We are voting on Mr. Ananiev's proposal. They voted 115 MPs: 11 against 19, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. We are voting § 7 in its version on the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: 90, against 3, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. The word wants Minister Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to offer an apology for delaying the adoption of the bill currently under way in this House. I have been a Member of the National Assembly and I know that everyone is chasing their bill and plan, but I feel obliged to you to show documents, to inform you with figures that rest on documents to dispel any concerns, as this concerns the agricultural community, it also concerns the citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria that there are stopped or requested 1 billion. or 1 billion. 100 million. lv. under the Rural Development Programme. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Rural Development Programme is neither stopped nor we have a requested 1 billion. or 1 billion. And 100 million. lv. For evidence the most elementary, here. [[shows]] This morning's payment [[shouts: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB]] With which more than 100 million were recovered. BGN, paid under the Rural Development Programme. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] This morning, I say. Again, this morning. Yesterday, when this information first appeared, in the meantime, when the announcement that there was a program stopped, we paid another 56 million. lv. only yesterday. [[Applause from GERB.]] When it was announced that from the date of the letter I am bearing and will now communicate, from this date of the letter, from April to date under the Rural Development Programme, the new one has been paid out nearly 200 million. lv. [[Applause from GERB.]] I ask: could these payments be made? Could it have been recovered this morning from the Commission money paid under the Programme if it had been stopped? You can't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u116	Maybe! Maybe!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u117	I return to the letter, which led to conclusions that you see do not correspond in any way to reality. What is this letter? Only to read it, of course, we have to understand it. This is about a letter which was translated into Bulgarian on 9 June 2016. I am carrying this letter. [[Shows.]] [[BSP LB.]] Yeah, it's been in English since April. This is the official translation from which deadlines begin. This letter has relevant additions and concerns the certification body's report on payments last year. On this report, submitted by the certifying authority, which until this year was selected by procedure and for the last year is the Grant tornton. As of this year we have made a decision.. You also voted on it, and it was on the occasion of the criticism of Prof. Bachvarova for the procedures that are systematic, thanks precisely to Prof. Bachvarova from BSP left Bulgaria I decided to make a state body and I offered it to you. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] This letter concerns the certification body report. The letter says that the accounts will not be cleared by 31 May, but this means the adoption of the certification body report. The 2015 accounts have been recovered, but according to the procedures which are very detailed, and since I have 10 minutes, then I will invite everyone interested and will ask the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria to accept Deputy Minister Grudev, who will provide you with everything I show. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] As for Bulgaria, so for three other countries, France and Italy, these reports on 31 May are not accepted. This is on the European Commission's website. The document is public and anyone can meet it. Additional requirements of documents and procedures to be carried out have been made to the certifying authority so that the report of the certifying authority can be adopted by the Commission. The report, which is presented and on which the Commission in practice raises additional questions and requires additional documents, states that the error in payments made is less than 2%. Again, these are rules that can be explained to you much more in detail. When this error is below 2%, there is no penalty. In the case of another sample, where the error was more than 2%, then for the part over 2% there is a penalty, and there are discrepancies in which the Commission requests additional checks. For example, I give the claim for the verification of the plots is for 1200 plots. The Commission has requested 500 more plots to be checked. At the moment, the certification body for 2015, following the instructions that it has and the additional requirements, has sent part of the documents and carried out part of the checks. Of course, we are part of this communication, but everything that should be done must be done by the certifying authority for that period of time. In the worst case scenario, even after all the additional requests submitted by the certifying authority and the Commission did not receive this assurance, the hypothesis of action is that it itself will carry out an audit. But even then, some of the billions that are quoted will not be required. They were reimbursed by the Commission and deducted an advance from 2008. [[Applause from GERB.]] Dear colleagues, honourable colleagues from the opposition! I, in charge of agricultural policy, when I was opposed to the Oresharski cabinet, did not allow myself from this tribune to say things that are not about reality. I'm sorry that the minister who was then was Professor. Grekov is not currently a member of parliament, but here I see Mrs. Ahmedova and Professor. Bachvarova. Including a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, we have sought the real solutions and even solutions proposed by Oresharski's office, which are now delaying the implementation of hydromillions. I voted and proposed to GERB to support them. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because agriculture is a national policy. Agriculture is not a policy of this party or that party. Such signals create not only hesitation, concern of the agricultural community. They create feelings, hesitations, and questions: "What is happening in the state and in the services themselves? " At the last Council of Ministers that I attended and held a working meeting on the occasion of the notifications that are under the Programme with a team of the Directorate-General for Agriculture, do you know what question I was asked? Mrs. Minister, we are getting requests from sites for sanctions imposed on some fantastic amounts. Where do these informations come from in Bulgaria?! And yesterday from a media outlet, by the way, last night, I'm not quoting the media, they called the deputy minister Grudev. As a matter of fact, I'm glad that there are still people who have said nothing about it. They said, "Yes, we asked the Commission. There's no such sanction. We are not going to ask you at all, we are not going to take an interview or additional information. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are Bulgarians! [[Applause from GERB.]] Should small political ambitions be an occasion to compromise trust in the Bulgarian agricultural community?! I'm asking. That's how I did it when I was an opposition. I also supported the GERB Parliamentary Group. The current Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, who was our leader, has accepted my position.. We supported the conclusion of the Consultant Treaty with the World Bank for Strategy in Hydromillions. Due to this Strategy, which was adopted at the end of December, we are now making changes to the Law on Irrigation Associations, we are making a second notification under the Programme. The eligibility of investments in hydromillions is not yet possible precisely because of the procedures that I supported as an opposition during your term of office, because I was aware of the responsibility that these acts carry policies for the functioning of the sector, policies, even though they were then proposed by the Oresharski government. When we are in the Community and we are committed, we follow paths that cannot be distorted, whether one is from BSP, GERB or DPS. We must realise this because, in return, honourable Members, we are harming our country. And we should not be surprised by the low turnout of normal intelligent people. We should not be surprised that the manipulated and controlled vote becomes more if our political mentality is to speak lies to get the short-term political dividend. Let us unite and speak expertly in the direction of national interest. What else could I say politically? I could say: "Dear citizens, honourable MPs, from 2007 to 2016 the sector...................................... has managed a total of nine and a half years in which we have the opportunity for programmes, but for these nine and a half years only three are on BSP, but in these three years the first........................................................................................................................................................................................... They have de facto managed only one, and it has always managed the sector......................... in the form in which the coalition offices were not GERB's. But isn't talking about it in political terms again?! European programmes are not about money absorption. They are an instrument that must support the implementation of policies for any sector. I will endure every criticism and respond to it if it is related to the changes in national policies that I have made along with my team in the current term. Reverse thesis may have a basis if your vision is different. And I'll take it. This is the policy to fight between the different political platforms for the way of functioning, in my case. I'm going to protect my people from what changes we've made and why, what way of development we're guessing. This is the political debate. However, it cannot be loud slogans and phrases that do not correspond to the facts. And secondly, which practically harms the functioning of the system. What are my impressions of other member states? When it comes to procedures, when it comes to protecting national interest, because there are now many coalition offices from other member states, there is no such political struggle that does not correspond in any way to reality. With colleagues from PES I work in very good communications, we have many common positions. But there's a common interest. Agriculture is a national interest. And I'm ready to accept any criticism about policies that we've changed because we've made a lot of changes. But all this is only harming our country. We must stick to the truthfulness, to the facts, and above all to the national interest of our country. [[Applause from GERB.]] There is no successful publicist who has entered our Bulgarian history, whose rule, whose motto, whose mentality has been based on denial and bad energy. That's what I'm saying, not as a minister, but as a citizen. I hope all of this is understood. All documents - letters and declarations - Deputy Minister Grudev will wait before the BSP Parliamentary Group to provide them with them so that they can be convinced of the return of the money. [[Applause from GERB.]] I would stay in person, but I have a meeting with the Minister of Agriculture of Russia, and I have to leave for the plane, so I'm going to leave, but I've called the Deputy Minister. I wish you a successful legislative activity! [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u118	Personal explanation from Mrs. Bachvarova. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u119	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues! After this emotional statement, I would still like us to land on the sphere and on the field of expertise, because the minister started to think that we should be at expert level so that we can comment on anything. A few questions. Dear colleagues, there is a problem. Seven pages...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u120	What are you personally affected by? You're in a procedure for a personal explanation. [[Reply from the National Representative Dobromir Stoinev.]] Mr. Stoinev, you've been on the verge of the Rules all day!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u121	There's a problem. Minister Taneva said: The choice of certification body as a new structure in the Ministry of Agriculture is thanks to the questions we have asked that there is a problem with the selection of certification body. The seven-page letter explains that the certifying authority is the one who has not done his job because of the failure of three or four procedures of his choice. There are sanctions. They're on the Ministry's page. You can see that two audit missions are expected. One's on municipal projects, the other's on agri-environment. [[Noise, lines.]] These sanctions, honourable Members, are exactly what the letter says. These sanctions will be on your back, because you do not want to see the problem that now exists Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u122	Procedure Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u123	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because you are treating the representatives of the various parliamentary groups unfairly. The moment Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Dobrev came out for a personal explanation, you didn't comment on them and you didn't ask them what they were personally affected by, even though they were making political statements, and nothing that personally affected them was said from here. You took the liberty of interrupting Mrs. Bachvarova when you took the same procedure for personal explanation. Please, I understand that you have collegiate feelings for your parliamentary group. However, it is unacceptable to have a division and a different attitude towards the MPs who have the same rights in parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I have a collegiate sense of all MPs from all parliamentary groups. If you dispute the procedures for personal explanations, at the beginning of today's plenary day, other than the MPs from the GERB group, such procedures also took representatives from your parliamentary group, where I really let the declarations continue, which was my mistake. Mr. Bayraktarov gave me the right attention. After the address and the attention of Mr. Bayraktarov, I have corrected myself, which is why I am more closely following the procedures for personal explanations at the moment. We continue with the Law. Mrs. Stoyanova, put us back on your subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u125	Paragraph 8? a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the commercial register of circumstances and data for companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime Art. 6. (1) In the trade register under art. 3, para. 1 of the Commercial Register Act shall record circumstances and data on companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime which directly and/or indirectly operate or will operate under art. 3, as well as data on their actual owners. (2) The entry shall be made in the case/party of the company controlled by a company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime which carries out or will operate under art. 3. Where the company registered in a jurisdiction with a preferential tax regime carries out or will operate under art. 3 directly or through an unregistered person, the existence of a circumstance under art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8, is the basis for its self-entry in the register of ) (a.k.a. 1. (3) In the register under para. 1 shall be entered in the circumstances of art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8, and: 1. the details of the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime, including a company, national register number, legal form according to the national law, registered office and address of management representing persons, their names, nationality and date of birth; 2. the identifying data on the actual owners of the natural persons, according to a notary certified declaration on a template approved by the Minister of Justice; 3. the details of the persons controlled by the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime which directly or indirectly participate in the capital of the company concerned under art. 3, including a company, national register number, legal form according to national law, registered office and management address representing persons representing their names, nationality and date of birth, according to the declaration under point 3. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. any changes in the circumstances under art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8, and the data on item 3. 1-3. (4) The circumstances of art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8, and the data under para. 3 shall be entered in the register under para. 1 prior to taking part in a procedure under art. 3, respectively, within 30 days of the occurrence of the change under para. 3, p. 4. (5) The authority of the relevant administration responsible for the procedures under art. 3 shall carry out a verification of the existence of an entry of the circumstances under art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8, and the data under para. 3 in the register under para. 1. (6) In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of para. Art. 3 and 4 shall apply respectively. 3, 5 or 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u126	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 8 and edited by the Commission in accordance with its report. I shall put to the vote § 8 on the Commission report. 70 MPs voted: 66, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u127	The Commission shall support the importer's test for § 9. Paragraph 10? a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova in accordance with art. 90, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 the words.................................................................... are replaced 2. A new para is being created. 3: "Shouldn't apply for a change in the circumstances of art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5-8 and the data under art. 6, para. 3 or submit the application after the period referred to in Article 3. 6, para. 4 If it is not subject to more severe punishment, it is punished with a fine of 10 000 BGN. up to 50,000 BGN 3. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 fine is worth 100 000 leva. up to BGN 200,000, by para. 3 the fine is from 20 000 BGN to 100 000 BGN, respectively in case of repeated infringement under para. 2 the penalty is 500 000 BGN. up to BGN 1 000 000
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u128	Paragraph 11 is also supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u129	Paragraph 11 is supported by the Commission, but in the report, Mr President, the title of art. 8 which reads: "Establishment of administrative violations and imposition of administrative penalties."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u130	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The lyrics of § 10 concern the large scissors in the imposition of the fines. I think it is already clear to every MP that the bigger the scissors from.. to, the greater the likelihood of creating corruption practices. After all, as a result of the failure to impose fines. I would ask the importers: what criterion, for example, will you explain to me the imposition of a fine of 11,000, 15,000? What are these subjective factors that will allow to determine the amount of the fine in order, for example, from 10 to 50 000 BGN, or in order from 100 000 to 200 000 BGN.? There aren't any. That is to say, the text contains levels of fine enforcement, which, apart from leading to corrupt practices, will lead to nothing else. After a fine of 10 000 to 50 000 BGN is punished and the fine should be of a precise size of 30 000 BGN. This one first. That's the kind of proposal I make in para. 4 where after the words............................................................................................... 1 fine is from 100 to 200 thousand. The fine shall be of a specific amount, in the case of "150 thousand'. lv., then the numbers from 20 to 100 thousand. The fine shall also be deleted in a specific amount, in the case of 60 thousand. BGN and finally the numbers from 500 thousand to 1 million. The amount of the fine with the number shall also be deleted and specified. $750,000. lv. Because I believe that this is the way to proceed under this Law, so that there are no opinions that will call into question the actions of this Law in the style in which my colleague Yanaki Stoilov spoke. I think that's fair, and that's the way it should be handled in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u133	Mr President, honourable Members, it is a principle in law that, after all, when fines are imposed for certain infringements, they take into account the gravity of the infringement and its consequences. That is why it is also adopted in all the laws of the Court of Justice in the administrative penal provisions, the limits are taken, the size of the fines, and the administrative penalty authority is in its right and in its obligation to assess the amount of that fine, according to the gravity of the infringement, the size of the company which committed the infringement or the consequences of that infringement. I believe that the application of a firm fine, which the previous one proposes, is not appropriate for the following reason. You yourselves see that the proposal was at the bottom of the fines. It is possible that such a fine at the lower limit would actually prove insignificant for a large company and it would prefer to pay the fine instead of fulfilling its obligation. That's also the point of the range. If we believe that the administrative punishing authority, in this case, is the head of the relevant administration, we cannot say at the moment who he is exactly, by presumption he is corrupt and by presumption he intends to racketeering through the imposition of greater fines, then we must adopt this approach in absolutely all laws where there are administrative criminal provisions. The Law cannot describe the criteria on which to impose one or another amount of the fine. Those criteria shall be the subject of discretion by each supervisor and by each office or his staff acting as the determining and administrative punishing authority. So if we accept the proposal of the speaker, we could get to a situation where these fines prove to be insignificant for large companies and would encourage some large companies not to comply with legislation. They'll just be cheaper.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. A line from the National Representative Dimitar Bayraktarov. The proposal is right in the middle of the range.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u135	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, first of all, the proposal I make is not at the minimum, but above the middle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u136	Yeah, it's not the minimum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u137	Okay. Secondly, we are talking once again about amendments for a certain type of legal entity, in this case it is the so-called office companies. That is, once we change the Law so that they can not harm others with their ability to participate in the market and acquire capital, then, you see, the administrative authority in this case is one and is called the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u138	Oh, no, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u139	That's right! He's the administrative authority. By the way, we have repeatedly raised these questions because this is not about criminal law, it is about administrative criminal law, which is something quite different, and the act, the administrative infringement, does not matter whether a small or a large firm has committed it. If you feel that the punishment may be insufficient, let us then put the maximum amount of the fine, but not be able to bend hands. Because here's the opportunity I'm going to use even your words to racketeering certain legal entities performing a certain business that way. This is known, a publicly known fact is, as they say, to everyone already in this country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. Two more lines: "Dimitar Lazarov and Nastimir Ananiev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, it is a matter of principle. You are right that the approach to imposing sanctions is, in my opinion, the legally correct term, because they can also be property penalties, as regards legal persons or fines, as regards individuals, in our legislation to really have a lower and upper limit, and this is the right approach, as you have said. This is done to take into account the degree of public danger of the administrative infringement. Not at all can it be about racketeering here, because if we are talking about racketeering, then the administratively punishing authority and the finding of the infringement, which is usually different from the administratively punishing person, can judge the minority of the case.. The law allows it, and does not impose a penalty at all. Recently, arguments have also been heard under other laws. The charge or fine must be one size, they are simply untenable because they take into account the degree of public danger, the public offences affected, which are declared administrative, and therefore there is an administrative penalty. Both the Law on Administrative Punishment and Infractions states what analogy is applied, and the Code of Criminal Procedure, where the principle is also taken into account, is the same, the degree of public danger of the act, in the relevant case, the specific infringement of the persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. The line should be to Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Stoyanova, I support the idea of a fixed fine, as, agree, the difference from 10 to 50 thousand is 5 times. We're not talking 100 to 200 where it's 100%. Let us introduce in the first offense, in the second, in the third..... to punish relapse. Why do we have to open these scissors on the first offense? This creates corrupt practices. Whether to be 10 or 50 thousand, in any case, when someone will make this decision subjectively in any way, gives such a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u144	...by the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u145	Yeah, yeah, and that's where it has to change the same way. I agree with you. Let's fight the relapses! Anyone can, for example, happen to miss the deadline to file the application or the fines they are, but later to do so. Let's fix a fine, for example, relapse in this action. If a second, third and fourth time is repeated, then the fines are fixed and of higher value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u147	Firstly, honourable Members, I continue to plead to have a range because this is the fair one and this is the right one when a penalty is imposed. I have explained already, I will not repeat it again, the gravity of the infringement, the consequences of this infringement, ultimately the prevention that needs to be done by imposing this sanction. I do not agree with what Mr. Bajraktarov replicated that the Financial Supervision Commission was going to impose sanctions that was not true. Under art. 3 sanctions will impose the heads of all authorities. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 have 28 points and that's 28 different organs. According to the Law on Credit Institutions, it is clear that it will be imposed by BNB; under the Law on Public Contracts, it will be imposed by anyone who has declared a public contract; under the Law on excises and tax warehouses, you know who imposes them; under the Law on Energy, under the Law on Gambling, under the Law on Electronic Communications, under the Law on Radio and Television, under the Law on Energy from Renewable Sources. I think the right approach is to have a range.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposals made by the MP Dimitar Bayraktarov in § 10. He proposed specific dimensions of the administrative punishment, as presented by the stands. They voted 83 MPs: 22, against 12, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 - 9 and 11 - are fully supported by the Commission and 10 is supported by its version. Vote 78 MPs: 69, no objection, abstention 9. Paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u149	According to § 12 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova, made in accordance with Article 12. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 2 shall be added at the end, with the exception of Gibraltar (Brith.) and the States Parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. 2. Point 3 is repealed. 3. They're creating a t. 5-10: It's five o'clock. In the light of the above, the Commission concludes that the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. Control within the meaning of this Law is also available where companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax arrangements are directly or indirectly involved in the management or capital of another person or persons and are negotiated between them conditions other than the usual. 6. He is a natural person: (a) which directly or indirectly owns more than 25 percent of the shares or shares of a legal person or of another legal entity, or directly or indirectly controls them; (b) for the benefit of which 25 per cent or more of the property of a person is managed or distributed by a foundation, organisation and non-profit association or other person exercising trust management of property or distribution of property for the benefit of third parties; (c) which, outside the cases referred to in points (a) and (b), performs the role of a senior management officer if, after all possible funds have been exhausted and provided that there is no grounds for doubt, no person under points (a) and (b) or if there are doubts that the established person or persons is not the actual owner; the debtors shall keep records of the actions taken in order to establish the actual owner in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph. 7. Publisher of periodical printing is a person who organizes and finances the reproduction of newspapers and magazines, appearing in a consistent series with an interval between the individual issues not exceeding 6 months. 8. A regulated market is a concept within the meaning of art. 73 of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 9. A multi-party trading system is a concept within the meaning of § 1, t. 19 of the additional provisions of the Financial Instruments Markets Act. 10. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty on the person for the same by type of infringement shall be repeated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u150	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer by the Commission and edited by the same for § 12, in accordance with the Commission's report. 70 MPs voted: 65, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been adopted. Please report fully the section "Transitional and final provisions."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u151	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on Markets in Financial Instruments (prom., SG...) in art. 38b, para. 1 the words.......................................................................................... are replaced with those controlled by................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 14 and proposes in para. 2 after the words. Add to list 5s or 7s. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 15 by proposing that the words "skills" be replaced by "skills" and the words "applications" and "signs" are deleted. There is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure: "To create a new § 16. " The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... Within six months of the entry into force of this Law, the Financial Supervision Commission shall adopt the regulation under art. 4. c. OJ L 347, There is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Law shall enter into force from 1 July 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u152	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Member State of origin and the final provisions of the Commission, as well as paragraphs 13 to 17 inclusive, on the Commission's report. Vote 74 MPs: 69, none, abstention 5. Paragraphs 13 to 17 including the name of the division Thirty minutes of rest, then we proceed with our next item on the agenda. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u153	Honourable Members, we continue the plenary session with a second point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHILDERS IN BULGARIA. One is No 554-01-17, submitted by Rumen Yonchev and two bills of the Council of Ministers. With the Internal Security and Public Order Committee's report, Mr. Yavor Haytov will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u154	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-17, submitted by Rumen Yonchev on 16 June 2015. At a regular meeting held on 22 July 2015, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-17, submitted by Rumen Yonchev on 16 June 2015. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Interior Nikolay Nikolov, Director of the Directorate of Migration and Rositsa Grudeva, Chief Legal Consult at the Department of Migration and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Rakovski Lashev, Director of the Directorate of Consular Relations and Boris Vangelov, Chairman of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by the national representative Rumen Yonchev. Mr. Yonchev pointed out that the current migration situation is also related to the request of foreign citizens of Bulgarian origin from crisis areas to settle permanently in the country. There is an increase in the number of our compatriots from Ukraine and Ukraine who come to Bulgaria without having the opportunity to provide the necessary set of documents to obtain permanent residence status. The settlements from which they come are in the conflict zone and the administration is disorganized and does not perform its functions. This forces our compatriots to come with short-stay visas. Once these visas have expired, their stay in our territory has turned them into lawbreakers. What was proposed by the bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria allows dozens of our compatriots to obtain permanent residence status in the country. This is a decisive step towards implementing the state policy for attracting representatives from Bulgarian historical communities for permanent return and settlement in Bulgaria. Representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad expressed support for the bill. The representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs explained that a Draft Law was drawn up for amendment and supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, which was submitted to the Council of Ministers for a conciliation procedure. A working group on migration and asylum problems has also been established. It was stressed that the adoption of the proposed norm is controversial because it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. People's representatives Krasimir Karakachanov, Atanas Merdjanov, Stefan Dedev, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Mr. Mustafa Karadayi, Svetoslav Belemezov and Atanas Atanasov took part in the debates. Expressed support for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The Members of the National Assembly have also made proposals of a legal and technical nature to improve the submitted proposal between the first and second votes. After the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the votes of abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-117, submitted by Rumen Yonchev on 16 June 2015............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Haytov. The other two bills? Mr. Tsvetanov, President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I read the two reports, I would put to the vote access to plenary in relation to art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: First, in connection with the Draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016, by the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology and Communications Second, in connection with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016 by the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister, Rositsa Grudeva Director of the Legal Activity Directorate, Nikolay Nankov Director of the Migration Directorate. From the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.. Vassily Takev, Permanent Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u157	Please vote, honourable Members, on the proposal made by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Vote 65 MPs: 62, none, abstention 3. Invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the Draft Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Deputy Minister Anton Ginev and Gergana Zafirova The draft was presented by Deputy Minister Anton Ginev, who informed that the bill was the result of the work of an interdepartmental group with representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the State Agency "National Security" and the General Directorate of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Association of Bulgarian Airlines. The drafting of the bill is related to the implementation of art. 4 (1) (a) (b) of Council Directive 2001/51/EC of 28 June 2001 supplementing the provision of art. 26 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985. The practice of implementing the said text of the Directive in other Member States of the European Union, in particular in the Federal Republic of Germany, has been taken into account. In this regard and in view of the economic realities in the Republic of Bulgaria with the bill a minimum threshold of the sanction under art. Article 4 (1) (a) of Directive 2001/51/EC, introduced in art. 51 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria to amount to BGN 2000 instead of the current sanction of BGN 6000. Another change suggests that a carrier carrying by land and water to and/or from the Republic of Bulgaria foreigners, before performing the service, should be obliged to establish the existence and validity of the travel document and also the visa, if required. The provision under art. 20, para. 1, t. 1 relating to the replacement of the words of the Bulgarian visa and visa in order to avoid differences in interpretation and to cover the cases of recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of visas equivalent to national ones. During the discussion took part the MPs Stefan Dedev and Dimitar Delchev, who supported the bill as part of the effective fight against illegal emigration and raised questions for more detailed reasons for the amendments tabled. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u159	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. And now the next report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u160	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior - Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister; Rositsa Grudeva, Director of the Department of Legal and Regulatory Activities. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov. In his exhibition he noted that the bill was drawn up by an interdepartmental working group and provides for several groups of changes. The first important change relates to the introduction of a procedure for granting the status of a person without citizenship under the Convention on the Status of Persons Without Citizenship. The concept of a party is regulated for a person who is not considered to be a citizen of any State in accordance with the legislation in force and the legal status of that person is regulated. Explain that the status of a stateless person is intended to be granted by the Migration Department of the Ministry of Interior. Next are regulations governing the removal of biometric data and the issuance of maps of the staff members of diplomatic or consular representation or the representation of an international organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of the members of their families. The establishment of an electronic register in the Ministry of Interior of the issued identity documents of the staff members of diplomatic or consular representation, the representation of an international organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of the members of their families. There is also an explicit regulation regarding the documents submitted to the foreign control services, drawn up abroad and certifying family ties, introducing the requirement to recognise or allow them to be implemented under Bulgarian law. With the change in art. 9b, para. 1 Bulgarian legislation is aligned with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-575 of 2012, according to which third-country nationals may enter the territory of the Union with a valid travel document and a valid visa placed in a valid passport declared invalid. Persons applying for long-stay visas shall be subject to a requirement that they have opened 10 full-time jobs. In this way, the right of continued or permanent residence will only be granted to persons actually engaged in business and not those who have registered only a commercial company. In order to limit the abuse of rights, an additional requirement is introduced for persons applying for long-term residence as representatives of foreign companies. They provide for a preliminary examination and evaluation of the documents on the company's activity and tax orderability, as well as the planned activities of the company. Another group of changes are aimed at aligning terminology with that of European law, and instead of forced departures, it is replaced by a................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Bill also introduces a new interim guarantee measure, namely......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Petya Karayaneva from the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees expressed support for the bill and stressed that a distinction should be made between illegal or illegal migrants and those who sought protection. With regard to those who seek and need protection, all the requirements that guarantee their rights in accordance with the Admission Conditions Directive, which the Republic of Bulgaria transposed into the Asylum and Refugees Act, should be applied. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, took part in the debates, which raised issues related to the acquisition of status of prolonged residence through investment in real estate. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the Foreigners Act in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. We move on to the reports of the Commission on policies for Bulgarians abroad. Mr. Kenov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-117 of 16 June 2015, submitted Rumen Yonchev on 16 June 2015. At its meeting held on 30 September 2015, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-117 of 16 June 2015. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Interior - Ms. Rosalina Todorova, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - Mr. Boyko Hadzhiyski, Chief Expert in the Department of Consular Law Affairs, European Union and Schengen. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-117 of 16 June 2015, submitted by Rumen Marinov Yonchev on 16 June 2015, was presented by Mr. Yonchev, who expressed his support for the submitted Law on the Bulgarian side, pointing out that he was dictated by one of the refugee waves caused by the conflict in Ukraine, which gave rise to the movement of Ukrainian citizens of Bulgarian origin to Bulgaria. Many of them enter the country with a short-stay visa, which is most often 90 days, after which they have to return, to apply for a visa, which serves to authorise permanent residence in order to shape their further residence in the country. The proposed bill creates a legal opportunity for persons of Bulgarian origin coming from crisis areas who have legally entered the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to be able to obtain permanent residence status without the presence of a visa. The Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad received positive opinions from the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. In the course of the discussion Mr. Boyko Hadzhiyski pointed out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supported the bill in principle and that a text with similar content of the proposed amendment was included in their project. The President of the Commission Mr. Rumen Yonchev stressed that this is not just about foreign citizens, but about people of certified Bulgarian origin who are currently legally resident on the territory of the country and pointed out that this change can benefit individuals of Bulgarian origin who come from areas where there is a humanitarian crisis or other nature. After the discussion, the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad with 9 votes for the National Assembly, with no opposition to the National Assembly, proposed to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Registration, No 554-01-117 of 16 June 2015, submitted by Rumen Yonchev on 16 June 2015.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u163	Thank you, Mr. Kenov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Organisational Technology and Communications. Mr. Ananiev, I don't see him, but he has the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 11 May 2016, a Draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski, Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Anton Ginev, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Mikhail Zahariev, Secretary General of the General Directorate of the Transport and Aviation Administration, experts from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as representatives of the Association of Bulgarian Airlines. The bill was presented by Mikhail Zahariev. The draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria is related to the application of art. Council Directive 2001/51/EC of 28 June (OJ L 312, 19.12.2005, p. 2001 to supplement the provisions of art. 26 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985. During the presentation of the Bill, it was claimed that it was taken into account the practice of implementing the directive in other Member States. In this regard and in view of the economic realities in the Republic of Bulgaria with the Bill is proposed in the Bulgarian legislation the minimum threshold of the sanction under art. 4 Paragraph 1 (s) of Directive 2001/51/EC, introduced in art. 51 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, to the amount of 2000 BGN instead of the previous 6000 BGN. Another change suggests that a carrier carrying by land, by air or by water to and/or from the Republic of Bulgaria foreigners, before performing the service, should be obliged to establish the existence and validity of the travel document and the visa, where required, and whether the latter contain clear corrections, drawings, deletions, additions and others in the data, traces of replacement of the photograph, and whether the image of the photograph allows identification of the holder. The revision of the provision of art. 20, para 1, t. 1 relating to the replacement of the words "Bulgarian visa', with a visa, aims to avoid differences in interpretation and to cover cases of recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of visas equivalent to national visas pursuant to Decision No 459 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 approving the application of Decision No 565/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 and Decision No 48 of the Council of Ministers of 2012 on the application of a visa-free regime to holders of valid single (hengian) visas, valid long-stay visas and residence permits issued by the Member States fully applying the Schengen acquis, as well as by Switzerland and Liechtenstein. In the course of the discussion, the importers said that the draft was prepared by an interdepartmental working group with representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the State Agency "National Security", the Directorate General........................................ and the Association of Bulgarian Airlines. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 9 votes for the Foreign Office and 3 votes for the Council of Ministers, abstention proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. We are continuing with the reports from the Foreign Policy Committee. Two reports have been submitted. Mrs. Grozdanova, please introduce them to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u166	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will present the reports in summary, I will only read the texts that do not coincide with the other reports and the report of the leading Commission. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. At a meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, approved by Decision No 224 of the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by Anton Ginev Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The draft Law is related to the application of art. 4 Paragraph 1 (a) of Council Directive 2001/51/EC of 28 June 2001 supplementing the provisions of art. 26 of the Convention implementing the Schengen Agreement of 14 June 1985. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of para. 1 of art. 20 words "Bulgarian visa" were received with a visa, thus the provision is refined and is consistent with the term in art. 8, para. 1 of the Law. The aim is to avoid differences in interpretation and to cover the cases of recognition by the Republic of Bulgaria of visas equivalent to national visas pursuant to Decision No 459 of the Council of Ministers of 2014 approving the application of Decision No 565/2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 and Decision No 48 of the Council of Ministers of 2012 on the application of visa-free regime to holders of valid single (sengen) visas, valid long-stay visas and residence permits issued by Member States fully applying the Schengen acquis, as well as Switzerland and Liechtenstein. The proposal under para. 2 of art. 20 relates to the fact that the liability of the carrier to bring back the foreigner is not dismissed, although the carrier will not be punished in cases where the authorities of border control establish forged and/or false travel documents for foreigners or visas. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 10 votes for the Foreign Affairs Committee, without the opposition, and 2 votes for the Abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. At a meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, approved by Decision No 319 of the Council of Ministers. The reasons for the bill were presented by the Deputy Minister of Interior Krasimir Tzipov and the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Vasily Takev. The Law provides for several groups of substantial changes to the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill restores the provisions governing the removal of biometric data and the issuance of maps of staff members of diplomatic or consular representation or the representation of an international organisation in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of their family members. The establishment of an electronic register in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the issued maps of staff members of diplomatic or consular representation, of an international organization in the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as of the members of their families. Registration will be notified to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Finance (with a view to exempting from tax obligations) and the State Agency of National Security. An explicit legal framework shall be established with regard to the documents submitted to the foreign control services, drawn up abroad and certified family ties, including the requirement that they be recognised or admitted to comply under Bulgarian law. It shall be aligned with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-575/12, according to which third-country nationals may enter the territory of the Union with a valid travel document and a valid visa placed in a valid passport declared invalid. Clearness shall be established as regards the limits of jurisdiction of the courts in cases where there is an appeal against refusals to issue visas. More stringent requirements shall also be introduced in respect of persons applying for a long-stay visa as representatives of foreign companies. There is also the legal possibility to continue the period of residence of a foreigner who is already in the territory of the country but cannot leave it for reasons for which he is not responsible. The definitions are revised, such as the State's interest and the humanitarian reasons, in order to avoid the possibilities for their extended interpretation. Another group of changes are aimed at uniformising terminology with European ones. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill provide amendments and additions to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and to the Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and members of their families. The proposed amendments to the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents will create a more detailed framework of the cases and conditions under which temporary passports are issued to Bulgarian citizens. The Law on the entry, residence and departure of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union and their family members shall specify the grounds for appeal against the refusal to issue a visa to a family member of a citizen of the European Union. In this way, the powers of the Court in the cases of appeal are specified, reducing the possibility of establishing a diverse case-law. On the basis of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 10 votes for the European Parliament, without the opposition and 2 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u167	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. The latest report by the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Atanasova, you are.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The proposed Draft provides for a wide range of amendments aimed at overcoming problems arising in practice in the implementation of the Law. In particular, an opportunity to appeal the refusal to issue a visa under the Administrative Procedure Code on its legality shall be introduced. Several amendments are also envisaged with regard to foreigners applying for long-term residence for representatives of foreign commercial companies registered in the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a requirement for preliminary examination and evaluation of the documents concerning the company's tax order and the planned activities of the representation; traders who apply on the basis of the creation of 10 jobs are obliged to be full-time, and this requirement applies to each partner, respectively shareholder, separately; for foreigners who acquire property on real estate in Bulgaria the amount of the amount invested is reduced by 600 000 BGN. £100,000. The other amendments are related to the introduction of a procedure for determining the status of stateless persons, the creation of an opportunity for foreigners to enter the territory of the European Union with a valid travel document and a valid visa lodged in a declared invalid passport, the establishment of an electronic register in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the issued maps of staff members of diplomatic or consular representation, the representation of an international organisation in Bulgaria, as well as members of their families and others. In the course of the discussion, the People's Representative Cetin Kazak expressed his support for the Bill, pointing out that it will further harmonise our legislation with that of the European Union, as well as with the United Nations conventions on the status of stateless persons. He raised a question about the possibility for diplomatic and consular representations to cooperate with commercial intermediaries to accept and process visa applications, outside the cases of art. 9d, para. 3 of the Law, expressing concern that these relationships are not lege artis and should seek ways and mechanisms award under para. 4 to be limited to maximum. In response, Mr. Takev noted that these mechanisms are important because the officials in the consular offices do not have the necessary training and there is no technological opportunity to assume this function. Mr. Popov expressed his support for the bill and raised the question of whether the Law provides a legal definition of the reasonable time limit laid down in § 2 as well as with regard to the circle of persons who are exempt from the requirement for fingerprinting. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 "for", without "against" and "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to support the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. On behalf of the importers, does anyone wish to motivate the proposal? Here you are, Mr. Haytov, to develop Mr. Rumen Yonchev's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad, who, with complete unanimity, without a single vote against the European Parliament and abstention, supported the bill, which was tabled by the National Representative Mr. Rumen Yonchev. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about dozens of Bulgarian citizens who live in the territory of the regions of Lugansk and Donetsk, who in a clear and indisputable way are found to be of Bulgarian origin. However, unfortunately, due to the military activities that are taking place on the territory of the Republic of Ukraine, namely in the Russian Federation and the Ukrainian region, the administration on the ground is not working and these compatriots of ours are unable to extract the relevant documents necessary to obtain a visa on the basis of which to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria on a legal basis. With this change, I say again, which concerns about several dozen Bulgarian citizens, first of all, the Bulgarian state treats these compatriots as a mother, because in this difficult moment for their life they receive support from their country and can stay in the country legally and without causing any concern in them. Last but not least, I ask you to take into account the fact that their desire to stay on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is not only temporary to pass through Bulgaria and to seek their realization on the territory of a more developed country, but their desire due to coincidence and knowledge of the Bulgarian spirit, traditions, it is permanent to establish themselves here and to seek development in their lives. This legal proposal is based on numerous meetings, numerous discussions, numerous discussions. I also allow myself from the National Assembly's stand to thank the leadership of the State Agency for Foreigners, which has worked very hard to give some competent opinions in order to make this bill a reality. I'm asking you to support the bill. This will be a signal to all our compatriots, who are outside the Republic of Bulgaria, that the Bulgarian state is their country, that it loves and thinks about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u171	And thank you, Mr. Haytov. Any other importers? I don't see any desire. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate. I remind you that these are taking place parallel to the three bills. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honored guests, representatives of the importers! My speech will be brief, as two of the laws me and my colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and we do not have any comments. These are the Law of Mr. Rumen Yonchev and the Law of the Council of Ministers, submitted on 31 March. However, that is not the case with the Law of the Council of Ministers of 28 April. What's this about, guys? It's about an honest lobbyist amendment that, despite the valuable proposals, has found its place. These are not naked statements, because the draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Foreigners was published at the Public Consultation Portal, in which I pay attention, on page 11, the proposals reach the points. Suddenly, a new point is added to the draft Council of Ministers, which appears at a meeting of the Internal Commission, according to which in this point. The 19th number We are talking about the possibility of a long stay after an investment of 600 000 BGN. to be reduced to 100 000 BGN or to 50,000 Euros. I would like to note that such debates have been held in the previous and previous National Assembly, and whenever it comes to a change in the Law on Foreigners, the specialists from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Interior Ministry, the Justice Ministry, the DANS, the State Agency for Refugees, the foreigners, especially in the context of an increased refugee wave, always have their concerns. In the same way is the matter of the attitude of the employees in the special services, such as the State Agency of Intelligence and the Military Information Service of the Ministry of Defence. All of them with reluctance and particular precision look at each of the proposed changes. Obviously, I would like to repeat again, this is about frank lobbying, which has found its place between the project, which has been published for public consultation, and the real option. My question to Deputy Minister Tzipov, who is otherwise one, in my opinion, an extremely precise senior civil servant, is: how did this amendment find its place? Is it discussed in the version the Council of Ministers saw at the meeting or has it found its place between the Council of Ministers and the meeting of the Internal Commission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u173	Thank you. - What's the line? There aren't any. Mr. Tzipov doesn't have to answer. Maybe at the end of the debate, if he wants to, I'll give him the floor. Next statement, Mr. Bayraktarov. Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief too. Personally, I will support all three bills, because I think that the philosophy and direction in which they are proposed to the MPs is the right one. Here I would just like to draw attention to the bill of my colleague Rumen Yonchev, and there my request to colleagues is between first and second reading to be refined the text, because so written, it allows for interpretation. The good idea can be corrupted and taken advantage of, so to speak, another kind of foreign citizens, and the idea is to create these conditions for foreign citizens who are of Bulgarian origin, which I support with two hands. But so proposed the text, I repeat, gives an opportunity for interpretation and is a prerequisite that two assumptions are considered with it. 25, para. 1, t. 1, that is, foreign nationals in Bulgaria, who are of Bulgarian origin. The other, however, seems to suggest that the possibility is given to all other foreign citizens, so my request is to be precise and precise, specifically, it may even be written that this paragraph implies precisely this kind of foreign citizens concerning the hypothesis of art. 25, para. 1, t. One, or I'll back the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will take account of the Law submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April in the part § 26, amendments to art. 24, point (e) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Dear colleagues, without any order in the motivation, which accompanied the proposals for amendment of the Law on Foreigners, shyly changed the number What exactly is happening to this amendment? This is with regard to the status of long stay of foreign citizens in Bulgaria and we give the opportunity, you give the opportunity to the applicants, and as the practice has shown, the supporters of the executive authority will also vote on this amendment, foreign citizens, acquiring 100 thousand worth of property, to obtain this status. Dear colleagues, the strange thing is that this is not offered by the Ministry of Economy, but is offered as the first importer by the Council of Ministers, by the Ministry of Interior. Political leadership is hardly aware that there is migratory pressure, that refugees are passing. It announced that it could not guard the Bulgarian border. Foreign citizens are given the opportunity, instead of being refugees, illegally passing through, to have legal status as permanent residents. A campaign started these days. Among the media messages from the government somewhere, there is also some information that there is an opportunity for depopulated villages to be inhabited by refugees, it is most likely envisaged with the status of permanent residents of foreign citizens. A parliamentary delegation in Sweden found that this was possible. It has been announced that 160 villages in the Republic of Bulgaria are depopulated and the Law on Foreigners is changing, without any motivation, somehow, between the other texts, and we ask ourselves: why? What's the reason? Colleagues, what are you doing to the Bulgarian people? What are you trying to do with this change? [[Comments and calls from GERB: "Bravo to you! "]] You're trying to be legally regulated in the future to have a property sale, to have a deal. Answer me! For all the other proposals we find an argumentation, but that is exactly what is surprising to everyone has not received an answer from the executive, from those who supported it in the committees, as you manage, do not underestimate the Bulgarian citizens. They know why you're doing this. And you'll know when it's time to report. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will abstain at first reading on the submitted bill, will submit a proposal for a change to drop this text, and you have time to think about it, to think about whether you will cause this to the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u177	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? There aren't any. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The first two laws mentioned solve some of the problems that have been discussed for nearly seven or eight years. Seven or eight years ago, in the beginning with the citizens of Ukraine who were constantly returning them, back and forth we played them, finally found their place. In this regard, I would like to say that we are not only in favour, and we will vote on this Law at first and second readings, but I think that if in the National Assembly... The Bulgarian society and state need more similar amendments to the Law, because the members of the Commission for Bulgarians abroad know very well what problems we have in this regard with the Foreign Ministry and especially with the Ministry of Justice, who members of this special Commission in the Ministry of Justice are constantly breaking the Law, we are constantly dealing with deputy ministers, with officials who are in this Commission, and we will also have to solve this issue. As for the last Law and this threshold of 200 thousand, which has a drop of 600 thousand when this threshold of 600 thousand is introduced. Lev, we were against it, too. I think he fell. It was a million and it turned 600,000 or something. We also talked about the nature of the investment back then. An investment of 100 thousand or 200 thousand leva cannot open jobs, cannot make production. It's a buy-out of three or four apartments somewhere, and they're already invested, it's considered an investment, which is just, as a colleague here said, a deal. This wasn't supposed to happen. Even if it were up to us, we can bring it in, but you will not accept it. This investment must become a million and a half million and have additional requirements, otherwise everything else, I will say again, ending that such laws need and should be put in a framework in which Bulgarians who live abroad should receive a slightly higher status when they are accepted for Bulgarian citizens or permanently living in Bulgarian territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u179	Any lines to Mr. Stanilov? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I'm inviting the MPs to the House. Before that, however, Mr. Ivanov tells me that there were questions to Mr. Tsypov, Deputy Minister of the Interior. Here you go, Mr. Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u180	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. Firstly, I would like to make the clarification that it is a long stay, which has a period of one year, that is, for each year a residence permit should be granted. The basis of which were spoken to by the Members of the National Assembly is an investment in real estate. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the issue of permission, honourable Members, for a year. Regarding Mr. Merdjanov's question, I would like to clarify that the proposal was discussed by an interdepartmental working group with representatives of all security services. [[Reply from BSP LB.]] All the security services, the DANS, have been involved in this interdepartmental task force. I would like to draw attention to the Members of the National Assembly that this happened at the moment when the public discussion took place within the meaning of the Law on Legislative Acts. That is, dear Mr. Merdjanov, this cannot happen between the Council of Ministers and the introduction of the bill to the National Assembly. Of course, we are ready to discuss any reasonable suggestions. I would like to draw attention to this, and I will conclude that for the last three years on the grounds of this. 19 on the 600,000 investment. lv. applications have been submitted and an approved, authorised stay for up to one year of two foreigners. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u181	Personal explanation wants Mr. Merdjanov, named by Mr. Tzipov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u182	Take it easy than GERB. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Members of the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u183	Calm down to all your colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u184	Dear Mr. Tzipov, I didn't expect another, different answer from the one you gave. The big problem, colleagues, is that once again, with the majority of GERB, a lobbyist amendment is allowed as it was with the amendment "Mary Jane" and some other amendments to which you were authors. There's no way of knowing who made this offer. Yes, it must have been an interdepartmental commission that looked at the proposals in question, but on the site on which the original Council of Ministers draft was published, such an amendment is missing, such a proposal is not available. Who did it come from, Mr. Tzipov? Tell me, which lobbying group made such an offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u185	Colleagues, the debate is closed, we're in voting mode. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 554-01-17, submitted by Rumen Yonchev. The leading Commission proposes that we support this bill in the first vote. We vote, fellow Members. They voted 107 MPs: for 106, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-15, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 31 March 2016. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order proposes that we adopt it in the first vote. We vote. They voted 111 MPs: 110 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 602-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 28 April. 2016 supported by the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, with a proposal to do so also in plenary. We vote. Vote 113 MPs: 92 against 12, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. With this, all three bills have been passed in the first vote. We expect a joint report from the Commission in accordance with the procedures of our Rules of Procedure. Moving on to the next point of our weekly program: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PARTICULAR SECURITY ACTION. Importers: Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov. The bill is short, at the expense of this content.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u186	Yeah, absolutely. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before we begin the discussion on the second reading report, in relation to art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly should be granted admission in the plenary of the following persons from the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, and Senior Commissioner Todor Grebenarov, Deputy Director of the Directorate General of National Police. In connection with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security Activities, submitted by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs, adopted in the first vote, please put to the vote for tolerance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u187	Colleagues, let us vote on the proposal for admission to plenary with the possibility of participation in the debate at second reading. They voted 106 MPs: 104, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. We're listening, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u188	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Private Security, No 654-01-62, submitted by Rumen Ivanov and a group of MPs on 26 April 2016, adopted on the first vote on 25 May 2016. The Law on Private Security is amended and supplemented by the Law on Private Security. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u189	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer for the name of the Law. They voted 101 MPs: 96, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u190	According to § 1 there is a proposal of the MPs Krasimir Yankov, Atanas Merdjanov and Ivan Valentinov: In § 1 t. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: The following shall be inserted after the expression "physical persons' and the following shall be added: 1. the terms and conditions for notification of the taking over of the security of the natural person to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior; 2. the arrangements for providing partnership to the guards with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior during the implementation of the activity; 3. the arrangements for the assistance of the Ministry of Interior authorities to the guards of the natural person; 4. order, method and scope for issuing prescriptions to the persons under art. 2, para. 2 and 3 concerning the security and security of the natural person. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The Minister of the Interior shall determine by a decree the conditions and arrangements for the personal security of natural persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u191	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u192	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed additions aim to specify the scope of the Ordinance, which the Minister of Interior will issue. In the type of importer, the provision is not precise enough when determining the content of the regulation. It sets too broad limits and too broad opportunities for the Minister to settle a sub-legal level of relations related to the security of natural persons. The supplement of the provision will allow for a precise determination of which relations should be settled by means of this regulation, will contribute to the greater quality of the regulation and to the professional settlement of these matters, such as the purpose of which the importer has originally indicated in the reasons of the bill. The supplements concern co-operation between the Ministry of Interior and private guards in connection with the protection of the life of the protected person, order and manner of interaction between the security companies and the Ministry of Interior, as well as the issuance of mandatory regulations in relation to the security of a natural person. ) (a.k.a. 1 of the proposal - the terms and conditions for informing about taking over the security of the natural person to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The fact is that sometimes it is necessary to take over the security of a particular individual in very short periods or in exceptional circumstances. With this proposal, we propose to sign the terms and conditions of notification, bearing in mind that they comply naturally with the requirements of the Private Security Act. ) (a.k.a. 2 The terms and conditions for providing partnership to the guards with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior during the implementation of the activity. Here it is reasonable to sign the principle conditions and order for the implementation of a partnership by the Ministry of Interior with private guards during the implementation of the specific activity, taking into account the requirements of the legislation and the Law on Private Security Activities, and taking into account the fact that the Ministry of Interior does not currently have such developed in relation to the partnership. Point 3 "the terms and conditions for the assistance of the Ministry of Interior authorities to the security of the natural person. Here it must be signed by what order and under what conditions the Ministry of Interior can and will assist the guards of the natural person. According to the requirements of the Private Security Act, there is currently only an insufficient short paragraph for the specifics of the activity. ) (a.k.a. 4 A way and scope for issuing prescriptions to the persons under art. 2, para. 2 and 3 concerning the security and security of the natural person. In view of the sensitivity and specificity of the activity, the order by which the prescriptions will be made must be written. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I also address the importers and their representatives in the Chamber. It is not created; it does not function as provided for in art. 40, para. 11 of the Private Security Register Act, namely the Ministry of Interior to be built and to maintain a single automated, centralised register of licences for the activities under this Law. The law on private security activities has sufficient criteria and requirements for the main activities and performers, but there are no developed ones for partnership and exchange of information, as well as the envisaged controls and its results. There are sufficient requirements, however, there is no result of the checks by the Ministry of Interior. There's only a reaction at certain times. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Private Security Act has no implementing rules. Dear colleagues supporting the government of Boyko Borisov, you are managing and asking for a change in the Law, which you have not understood there are no rules for its implementation. At the same time, a new law on private security activities has been proposed for public consultation. What does this extraordinary amendment have to do now? Are you trying to convince me that you're concerned and that you're going to exercise control? The private security activity is run by the Ministry of Interior. You expect that Bulgarian citizens will believe and you will be able to transfer the security of objects carried out by the Ministry of Interior to private security companies? Is that why you're changing the Ministry of Interior Act and explaining that there will be 500 policemen on the street further?! Is that why Boyko Borisov casually throws that in the fight for domestic crime he is ready to include the security officers of the NPP You are trying with a campaign, and this campaign is currently exactly such a demand campaign to prepare public opinion to accept your intentions to transfer the activities of the Ministry of Interior into private hands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u193	Which objects?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u194	We will not allow you to work in private interest, colleagues! I declare it most responsible on behalf of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u195	This was Jobchev's.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u196	Don't even think about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u197	Any other speeches? [[Conversations between MPs from GERB and BSP LB.]] Colleagues, the debate is under some rules! Here you go, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u198	Dear colleagues, I would very much like to say this at first reading, now I will repeat it, so I hope someone hears me when they are discussing so important, really important to society, for citizens things and bills, let's talk professionally. It seems that today it is not normal to speak professionally, but only political speeches should be made, from this tribune only things must be spoken of, subject to some influences of people in this room. I can assure you that what you're playing with right now, without looking at its nature, is very important. To get a support for my statement that today, from this tribune, a reply came out. However, in this area, colleagues, we need to work not only with understanding but also with courage. I will now explain what the change is and what we really want by submitting this proposal for a change in the Law. We want them to stop the out-of-control motorcades on the streets. To stop street beatings, highways, and then get out and explain that these were temporarily assigned, on probation, people who could eventually become security guards, personal guards. We want there to be a clear, precise standard of how, by what means, how many and how many trained people to carry out this personal security; what to represent the motorcade, if any, and if necessary. Yes, we are tasking the Minister of Interior and the Ministry to finally draw up, after all these years, clear rules for this activity, not for security of sites, a colleague. Object security is something completely different. The security of individuals called personal security is something very specific and very different from the security of objects. If we do not now set standards when it is infinitely necessary, then the moment has come when the tolerance of citizens is at its limit. We gathered the courage of GERB gathered the courage to give the Minister of Interior and the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry and this Council of Ministers to face illegal motorcades, to face the people who make private armies.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u199	Do you hear what you're saying?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u200	I can hear myself talking! Here comes the most important moment. The offer you have submitted has been expanding. Nothing expands, colleagues. Inside with one comma is written to make only a communication system. Well, the communication system between the Ministry of Interior and private security companies is in the Private Security Act. It's clearly and accurately signed. The fact that you put in this regulation, in this proposal, the demand for only preparing means of communication and way of communication is not only that you have no courage to stop those who walk in the streets with countless guards, unauthorized, and there is no way to set a standard unless such a regulation is made, but on top of all that, you are clearly afraid to do so. Colleagues, I appeal to you: support this regulation. Yes, we impose great demands on the Minister and the Ministry. Yes, we trust that they will finally draw up a professional regulation with rules on how to do this. If we do not do this now, the tolerance of citizens on the streets will continue to pass the limits and they cannot tolerate it, because it really has to come under some rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u201	Any lines to Mr. Manev? Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u202	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Manev, you are not listening to what I'm saying! You haven't read the Law. It's all regulated! What you're trying to insinuate is populism which motorcades are legal and which are illegal. You change the Law and give an opportunity to make a regulation. What regulation, Mr. Manev? What exactly do you know? Why is there a new Public Discussion Act?? Why not sign them in the Law, so we all know exactly what the Ministry of Interior will do? Why does the Law have no implementing rules? [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] In these Rules you could regulate all your intentions to satisfy the Bulgarian citizens to be a fact, to discuss them publicly. Hidden behind a regulation that is not clear what texts there will be! And who will you control? Sector?! Why don't you control it now? What checks are being carried out by the Ministry of Interior? Is there a register? There's nothing to do! Populism and naked statements! Those 60,000 security guards who are in private security, they know it perfectly well. The employees of the Ministry of Interior also know it. Who are you kidding? Me?! Those who do not know what you have offered and call them to support what? Is there some kind of regulation that the minister, who I can remind you is a sociologist, is going to write and execute?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u203	Second line, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u204	Madam President, honourable Members! Most probably a large part of the arguments that have been put out by the stands are justified. More than necessary is the regulation of the activities in the private security sector and there is no doubt in this, after all we have seen lately. It is also related to regulations on the carrying of arms by private persons relating to the effectiveness of control over the carrying of arms by private persons. Not to mention that a large part of private individuals who own weapons and currently have the right to use it and engage in private security activities, are formally in clean files, but at the same time things do not look that way. So the effectiveness of control is zero. The second question that arises is the question of the concept of a private motorcade. Sorry, guys! This is ridiculous work! What European practice is this?! How many private motorcades are there in Denmark? In Holland? You're all traveling on different occasions. Where are the private motorcades there? What do you mean, private motorcade? How many cars does a private motorcade consist of? Who are these people to have private motorcades?! If there is a security company and it has a contract with a certain person for physical, technical or any other security, of object guards and so on, let all these requirements But the private motorcade or the so-called security during a specialized car traffic is providing routes and whatnot. This means limiting citizens' rights from private security companies. That's what it means! Where does the face go with the Eyes or without the Eyes and I don't know who's still going to shut me down and I won't be able to go through the crossroads or because he's decided to drink in the pub of Simeonovsko shose with an excuse for the expression, he's closed the road between the train station and the zoo. This is ridiculous! This amendment is now necessary.. perhaps it should be accepted, but then let it be refined and end this Asian practice, with an apology!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u205	Third line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u206	Dear colleagues! The first part of the lines that I'm doing here. How competent I am to speak on this subject or not competent is a subject that I will not discuss with you. I'll give you a personal present tomorrow. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] We'll talk again. Colleague, make a regulation of how, in what way and with what powers and means a natural person will be guarded. Listen carefully to me now. When it has judged that his life or his health, or his image in some cases requires that he hire personal, private security, does not correspond to whether reality really threatened him. He evaluated the guy, decided to hire a personal security guard, figured you paid and hired her. Only there must be clear and precise rules. That's part of the answer to the second line. On the contrary, not now anyone should be doing motorcades, but those who are now enjoying without any legal basis, without any regulation, be placed under strict control of this regulation. Not with a regulation on communications, not with an allocation of who, with whom, how will he talk when such security is being carried out, but how will it be carried out, by whom........................... only by licensed companies... [[GERB lines.]] One moment, listen to me to tell you! ...will only be from companies, or will anyone be able to make it. This requires the regulation! The ordinance will do that. And if you don't understand... [[BSP LB.]] Private personal security lessons I can take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u207	Will other MPs participate in the debate? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Jankov, Merdjanov and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 19 against 68, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 1 in its version on the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: 94 against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u208	'Concluding provision'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u209	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of the division. Voted 103 MPs: 95, no objection, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u210	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Within two months of the entry into force of this Law, the Minister of Interior shall issue a regulation under art. 6, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u211	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 in the version of the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 94, none, abstention 10. The proposal is adopted, and the Law is therefore adopted at second reading by the National Assembly. The next item in our program is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR WEARING A CLOTHING OR SCREENING THE PERSON. Importers are Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u212	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose that the debates and voting on this bill be postponed and I invite the importers to withdraw it with the following arguments. First of all, art. 3 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law We at the DPS believe that there are no public relations that need to be settled in this way. In Bulgaria there are no prerequisites, this phenomenon is foreign to our society at all, and several isolated cases in Pazardzhik cannot be grounds for settling these relations with law. My next argument, Madam President, is that at the moment of public consultation and on the website of the Ministry of Interior, the Anti-Terrorism Act is uploaded. We of the DPS respect the reasons by which the Bill is tabled in the sense of protecting national security, and we believe that if importers decide to submit their proposal to this Bill. Because in the fight against terrorism, there can be no policy, political parties. We're all united there. In fact, we can create a very serious problem, thinking that with a separate bill, we are solving some problem that is not there. I appeal to all democraticly thinking MPs not to participate in creating prerequisites and instilling hatred in Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u213	Inverse opinion of Mr Hamid's proposal to postpone this item from the agenda? Mr. Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the contrary's point of view, we do not believe that the point should be postponed, it should be considered. This proposal meets the public interests, the national interests of Bulgaria and the secular nature of the Bulgarian state. We insist that this item remain in the Programme and be viewed so that we can truly guarantee the secular character of the Bulgarian state, and not as the DPS once talk about how a secularly oriented party is, but at the other moment protect people who profess and promote radical Islam, as the imams in Pazardzhik. We do not believe that whether there are 20, 50 or 100 women who wear burkas in Bulgaria was not so important. Well, let's wait for 100 thousand, 200 thousand and then the Bulgarian legislator to take action. No, this time the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian Parliament will take measures in advance to stop this process of replacing the identity of the Bulgarian state.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u215	I shall put to the vote Mr Hamid's procedural proposal to postpone the weekly agenda of this item on the agenda. Vote 117 MPs: 17 against 59, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. A report from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights will present to us her chairman Mr. Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u216	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April In accordance with At a regular meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April. In accordance with The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Oleg Petkov, Vice-President of the State Agency for National Security, Mr. Alexander Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law at the Ministry of Justice, experts and representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. Mr. Veselinov stressed that the French law was used as the basis of the Bill. The main principle in the creation of the Bill is to preserve the rights of free religion and, at the same time, ensure national interests by limiting the wearing of non-traditional clothes for Bulgaria and symbolizing other trends. The bill is an alternative to initiatives in various municipal councils to regulate this matter as a response, in particular, to an extremely negative global tendency to impose radical Islam as a religion, such as ideology, antagonistic of the secular state, democratic principles and gender equality. In the last three years, a leading place in global terrorism has taken precisely this type of ideology, which is the cause of two thirds of the death that terrorism causes in the world. In Bulgaria, there are only a few precedents to be addressed in time in order to prevent the deepening of this trend. In this regard, it is believed that in religious institutions, in their home everyone is free to wear what he likes, but in public places, the elements of the urban infrastructure and institutions, one should be able to identify and not allow manifesting beliefs that are antagonistic to the basic principles of our country. Mr. Veselinov said that there are such restrictions imposed in six countries in Europe. Some are national, in others they are in parts of the territory of the countries. These are democratic countries such as France, Belgium, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands. With this Bill, our country will engage in a trend that is common European and which aims to preserve the secular foundations of the countries of the European Union. Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, said that the opinion provided by the Ministry to the Commission expresses principled support for the bill. Some specific comments on the texts have also been given with the arguments that certain requirements should thus be introduced to enable the identification of persons. Such texts are currently available in the current Bulgarian legislation in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Rules for its Implementation. Mr. Aleksandar Stefanov, State Expert at the Department of Law at the Ministry of Justice, expressed the principle support of the Bill because it provides legal protection against violation of the equality and dignity of citizens and their human relations. The bill does not conflict with the established requirements and restrictions in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed texts in the Transitional and Final Provisions proposing amendments to the Criminal Code shall also be considered to be a very relevant responsibility for those who have an impact on women to bear symbols of radical Islam. Mr. Oleg Petkov, Vice-President of the National Security and Public Order, also said that in the opinion provided they support the initiative for settlement of relations in the area regulated by the Law as a kind of measure for protection of national security and public order, in particular as a measure for combating terrorism. Undoubtedly wearing clothing concealing or hiding a person's face prevents the possibility of his identification, which could lead to the inability to effectively carry out the work of the competent authorities. The proposed bill takes into account changes in the security environment both in Europe and throughout the world. In the debates held took part the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Manol Genov, Tuncher Kardzhaliev, Jayhan Ibryamov, Nikola Hadjiyski, Rosen Petrov and Irena Sokolova. During the discussion, a large part of the Members of the National Assembly expressed support for the views of the ministries and the State Agency for National Security, with which they were informed in advance. Opinions were expressed in support of the Bill, as well as those who expressed doubts as to whether this bill was necessary for our country. It was held that the texts of the Bill could be incorporated into another law................................................................................................... Some Members of the Commission expressed their concerns that such a bill could unleash a tendency of discrimination on a religious basis. Mr. Birali Mumun was given the opportunity to present the opinion of the Muslim Confession. He expressed the principled support for the Bill, but shared the concerns of the Muslim community in Bulgaria, which is worried not to resort to a ban on wearing clothing traditionally for women in Muslim religion. In this regard, he proposed editorial changes concerning the partial closure of the person. At the end of the discussion, the MPs agreed on the opinion that the bill should be improved and specific texts should be outlined, which should be refined between its first and second votes. After the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights with 11 votes......................................................................................................... and 3 votes............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. A report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order follows. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u218	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April In accordance with At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law on Clothing, Hiding or Hiding the Person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April. In accordance with The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tzipov On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by the National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov. In his exhibition he noted that the Bill was drawn up in connection with the observed dangerous trend related to the attempts of some nuclei of radical Islam, funded by external factors, to divide the Bulgarian society. The first goal is to divide the Muslim society into the right ones who wear burkas, beards and so on and the wrong ones. This is a tendency to divide and oppose society. The processes we observe in Bulgaria are characteristic of some Western European countries over the past 20 years, but only 4 years ago they have adopted similar legislation, understanding the complexity of the threat. The idea of the Bill is to facilitate law enforcement authorities to pursue the manifestations of radical Islamism, because this refers directly to the stability and national security of the state. The Bill makes a clear distinction that this ban does not concern sporting or cultural events, nor does it apply to people who, for medical reasons, are forced to close their faces, etc. With the bill, importers have summarized the experience they have in European countries that have adopted such legislation and mainly the practice in France and Belgium. Sanctions are also provided for those who force the wearing of such clothing. Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov said that he generally supports the bill as a measure aimed at protecting public order and protecting national security in accordance with art. 37, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decision to adopt the measures proposed by the Bill is a matter of legislative appropriateness, with the implementation of it having to achieve an optimal balance between freedom of religion and, respectively, related to it, wearing clothing, as part of religious rituals and traditions and ensuring protection of national security and the protection of public order, which constitute constitutionally anchored values. In order to ensure these values, certain restrictions are introduced in the current legal framework, allowing for the identification of persons. Such texts are contained in the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents and the Rules on the issue of Bulgarian Personal Documents. Based on a comparatively legal analysis, such legislation has been found to have been adopted in France, Belgium, Germany and the Netherlands. The Ministry of Justice has submitted a written statement which also supports the Bill in principle. The President of the Commission, Tsvetan Tsvetanov stressed that the adoption of such legislation could be a solution to many issues that arise and are resolved by the local authorities. In many municipal councils there are similar proposals and it is useful to limit and prevent the possibility of creating problems of another nature by adopting legislative norms and establishing uniform practice. National Representative Dimitar Delchev also supported the Bill with reasons for protecting public order and preserving the cultural values of the European Union to which we belong. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 12 votes for the Council, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for wearing clothing, concealing or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs on April 20th. In accordance with
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u220	♪ I can't believe on a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 12 May 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Law on Clothing, Hiding or Hiding Person No 654-01-58, tabled by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. The bill proposes a settlement of the conditions for wearing clothing, hiding in full or in part the face of the citizens inhabiting the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The aim of the bill is to introduce legal regulation of public relations related to the aggressive imposition on the territory of the country of restrictions on personal freedom and human dignity of women's individuals, imposing the manner of constant wearing of burkas and other varieties of fully covering clothing, coming as a imitation of communities where radical Islamism exists. The bill proposes that the ban on wearing clothing, hiding in full or in part the person should apply to the official institutions and sites of the urbanised territory related to the provision of administrative, educational or public services, places of public rest, sport, culture and communications. That is to say, in places where wearing such a type of clothing is objectively able to facilitate the execution of terrorist acts with a potentially large number of victims. The prohibition does not apply to the homes of the respective citizens or to the official places of prayer of the respective religion. Wearing religious clothing should be consistent with the existing constitutional and legal arrangements in the country. Therefore, the Bill introduces an obligation for foreign nationals or migrants to present a photo of personal documents and documents for temporary or permanent residence in accordance with the requirements of the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, as this is necessary for the identification of the person. The transitional and final provisions of the Bill also propose an addition to the Penal Code, providing for the creation of a provision criminalising the actions of persons who, through the use of threat, violence, coercion or authority, or by the promise of material tax, impose the wearing of clothing, hiding in full or in part the person in places where this is prohibited by the Law. The Commission has received an opinion in support of the Bill by the Ministry of Interior and concrete proposals have also been made to refine individual provisions. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the proposed bill in principle, while paying attention to the need to refine some of the provisions in line with the comments and proposals made by the Ministry of Interior. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote being held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 13 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u221	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The people's representative Desislava Atanasova has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u222	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the person, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Karakachanov At its meeting held on 26 May 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law. The meeting was attended by: Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister and Mrs. Maria Rangelova Head of the Legal Insurance Sector from the Ministry of Interior, Mrs. Elena Arapklulieva from the Ministry of Justice. The bill was presented by Mr. Emil Dimitrov. He stressed that it aims to respond to the need for explicit legal regulation of public relations relating to the limitations of personal freedom and human dignity. The Bill introduces an obligation for foreign nationals or migrants to present a photo of personal documents and documents for temporary or permanent residence in accordance with the requirements of the Bulgarian Personal Documents Act, as this is necessary for the identification of the person. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for............................................................................................ and 2 votes..........................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u223	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure for extending the time until the debate is concluded and voting on this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u225	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. They voted 93 MPs: 59, against 32, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u226	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u227	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u228	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure to re-vote the proposal I have made to extend the time of today's sitting until the debate is concluded and the vote on this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u229	Revoting procedure. Vote 108 MPs: 66, against 36, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Let's go! On behalf of the importer for an opinion? I won't. You have the floor for speeches, I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Kardzhaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u230	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It may be surprising to many, but the idea, especially some motives of the Law, does not give us reason to strongly object. I say "surprise" because, as everyone knows, if between political parties GERB and a Patriotic front there is a difference between worlds, then between the DPS and the Patriotic front the differences are universes. But I'm not gonna politicize. Some of the arguments, especially complemented by the emphasis given to them by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior and, above all, by the SANS, and then by the Chief Mufti, deserve attention, namely, there are obstacles to identifying a certain person in closing it. This, albeit inconclusive, is related to topics such as national security and the invulnerability of national security, order, health, morals, rights and freedoms of other non-conflict religion, on the other hand, and the adoption of such a law by France, Belgium and certain German provinces, is according to the Ministry of Interior, we must also note the decision of the European Court of Human Rights of 1 July 2014 that this Law does not violate the right of respect for personal and family life and freedom of thought, conscience and religion. And another, more personal argument to which some show particular sensitivity, namely attempts to limit the personal freedom and dignity of women with worldly worldviews, that is to say, the factor of gender equality and non-discrimination. According to European cultural traditions, the indoor person is even an expression of brutal abuse depersonalizing a woman even as a human being. However, this Bill is not valuable and does not solve this, I say it categorically, not to mention an existential problem of the Bulgarian society. That's why I shouldn't support myself. There are reasons, in several directions. First of all, I would like to highlight technical imperfections and incompetence proposed texts and interpretations. The French law is in front of me, and it's only seven sentences, and here we have three pages. It is known that perfection is in a simple expression. One reason is the clumsy text and also the inaccurate definitions in this text. I will not dwell on the remarks by the ministries and by the SANS in relation to migrants, with regard to the citizens, the definitions that speak of citizens inhabiting the Republic of Bulgaria should not be prohibited only by participants, but by visitors to public events to close and so on. But I will stop myself, and in detail, on another defect, namely if we assume that the ban on complete closure of the person is a relatively well defined set-up in the Law, then the partial closure is inaccurate with very serious, but very serious anatomophysiological contradictions and in a very dilettante way defined. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 It is said that the cases of closure of the head and face, including mouth, eyes, hair, and ears, regardless of the name of the garment concerned, are considered partially hidden. You mean what's coming out? If we refer to an anatomical definition of faces and heads, we come to ridiculous, even comical findings. A head is part of the body of a person in which it is located, we know everyone, the brain, the organs of sight, the hearing, the taste, the smell and so on. And the face is part of that head. The person is not separate another organ from the body of a person. The face includes forehead, eyebrows, temples, nose, cheeks, mouth and chin. If we rely on and trust the text of the importer, we understand that at the level above the neck of a person there are two anatomical organs, namely a head and a face that is ridiculous, which is stupid, which is ridiculous. The lack of definitive clarity about these human structures leads to these ridiculous conclusions and inapplicability of the desire to ban and use this prohibition in the Law. Hair and ears are improperly included as part of the face and confusion from there is inevitable. The appropriate suggestion in this case is that of the Chief Mufti, namely they offer this is also relevant to the Islamic canons: the person in the closure of any of the parts of the face mouth, nose, eyes, but including hair, neck and ears should not be included. That is, they can be closed, and that should not be punished, but not the mouth, nose and eyes. This will have practical application. The current text makes vulnerable photographs with butaphorical escorts pink panthers, Mickey Mouse and so on, but also riders, bikers, and also fine ladies with scarves, with skints, with capes. And also with this Law we have to punish fishermen, hunters, skiers, beekeepers and so on. These are the technical problems. The second reason why we cannot support the Law is, in our view, the danger of unleashing religious discrimination. The Law initiates restrictions on already established and actual religious rights, as well as the adoption of unconstitutional texts and regulations. We have concerns that this may be followed by a complete ban on religious clothing, as the Muslim religion imagines. In addition, some municipal councils have already adopted illegal bans which are practically restrictions on constitutional rights of action and the application of different faiths. For example, in Stara Zagora, there was accepted a ban on public religious events, religious campaigning and promotional material on the streets, a ban on religious propaganda in the homes, notice, about worshipping miraculous icons. Everyone here is affected, not only Muslim religion, but also Protestants, evangelists, Jehovah's Witnesses, and so on. Confounded in these prohibitions, at some point it may be that we forget an axiomatic fact, namely that religions by presumption are the moral, moral code of the Bulgarian society and of any society and any violation of that character are able to affect the spiritual support of the believers, and even their value system. [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]] Thirdly, this Law can be adopted by deviant interpreters of Muslim religion, by fundamentalists with a psychopathological profile that we wrongly summarize in the section of Radical Islam, such as provocation to orthodox Islam. What do I mean? With the legislation, we as lawmakers must protect the Bulgarian society from acts of potential evildoers with edifying and rematching motives. Nothing requires, honourable Members, that we are only the fourth country in Europe, and that I include the German provinces in which such a Law is adopted. In my opinion, we are entering the sight of unhealthy religious communities, doctrines, darkness, framed, dogmatic worldview. Unfortunately, history abounds with examples proving that violence is true, in this case the ban that sometimes prejudiced society with hypersensitivity politicians in its quest to prevent aggression and terror, on the contrary, in a paradoxical way even provokes them. And the fourth reason why we cannot support this Law is that it is created a digital and word, notice, for 30-40 women who live in Pazardzhik. [[Replys from the bottom of the hall: "Not so much."]] In France there is indeed a law, but it is found that there live over 40 thousand such women. What is the definition of the word "law "? See what is written in the Bulgarian dictionary: "Normative act, decree, regulation of the state authorities for settlement of the public-law relations between citizens in one country. The same is indicated in the Law on Legislative Acts. It's a similar definition on Wikipedia. What public relations will we settle with this Law? How and are we going to transfer that tiny segment of subjectivity to this norm? Are there other laws in Bulgaria that concern 30 people?! Does he need them?! Others are in our opinion from the Political Party.The Movement for Parva and Freedoms, the existential, the daily problems of the Bulgarian society, respectively of the religious communities. Okay, we're banning burkeys, no-one, hijabi. What do we decide with that?! Is there anything we can do to contribute to a better society?! [[Noise and lines from the bottom of the hall.]] Isn't that a butaphorical, fictional, nonexistent problem?! The exclusion and segregation of a large community of people from economic, cultural and even public life is indeed a problem, but genesis is elsewhere. He's in the uneducated! This leads to a manipulative society. What is offered by the Patriotic Front is pure populism. As is known, populism does not feed. He can bring satisfaction, do a show, but populism doesn't feed. In a modern, modern democratic, European society, bans must be applied as the last, even as a finite option in the interpretation of such problems. Others are in our opinion the real ones, others are the authentic arguments of the importer. If we know the platform of the Patriotic Front from the 2014 parliamentary elections, we cannot fail to make the relevant association. For example, it is proposed to build, I quote: official camps in Bulgaria, ghettos, where to isolate a particular monoethnic contingent of people, and this to be a tourist attraction. To limit birth rates in the middle of this contingent, notice, with free contraception. They don't have the right to welfare after a third child and so on and so forth. In this analysis plan, we need to look for the arguments on the Patriotic Front. The idea of this Law is nothing more than an arrogant display of annoying populism, but also xenophobia! Nationalists have the unique quality to use more global, global geopolitical problems to carry out their ritualistic definition of a cause, namely: identifying an enemy. Once an enemy is identified, the stereotype of action, the behavior of nationalists is always the same. With this Law they show a new scarecrow among the political instruments they deal with, namely: hatred, fear, identity, statehood, territorial integrity, US military bases, Turkish state, radical Islam and so on. [[(Relations from the bottom of the hall:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u231	Would you like a time extension, Mr. Kardzhaliev?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u232	I'm graduating, last sentence, Mr. Chairman. [[Speaking indistinctly: "Search! "]] In the Balkans and in Bulgaria you know that there have been historical predominances that create many prejudices and a bunch of prejudices. These topics lead to anxiety. The anxiety, when instilling such a new fear, is with the power of a public archetype and a significant public annoyance. And this can now become even a significant driving factor of one society in one direction or another. Thank you. Please extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Kardzhaliev. - What's the line? Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mestan.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The bill we are looking at is yet another price which, allegedly, the system parties, like GERB and the Reformation bloc, are paying the Patriot Front as a payback for their power, for their support for their power. Nothing requires the discussion and adoption of this Law by the 43rd National Assembly. It's about a political deal at the expense of values that proves the comic situation that you fell into a few minutes ago. The colleague's proposal for an extension of the time until the adoption of the Law was not passed, you asked for a re-vote and there was a commotion, a sprint to the voting boards because you would cancel the deal with the patriots. Comic and pathetic, as comic and pathetic is the entire Bill. A few things. Firstly, it is definitely not true that the Law affects 30-40 women from Pazardzhik. A very elegant shade that allows discussion of such a Law. It affects 30-40 women only in art. 2, para. 1 paragraph which concerns the completely hidden person. Alinea 2 affects dozens, not to say hundreds of thousands of women, affects the basic traditions of both Muslims in Bulgaria and Christians. It was hot, it was hot, but Mocanina knew that when women so relaxed their headscarves, not the heat, but something else tormented them. It's about the headscarf, not the burka! This is the core of this law. And from that point of view, not only does it not affect 30-40 women, but it affects tens of thousands of women, it affects my mother's memory, my vision of her as a veiled woman whose face, however, is visible. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen, Bulgaria has no problem, Bulgarian tradition does not know burkas. But you don't even settle public relations related to burkas. You're reaching out to the basic traditions that never bothered anyone. I would say that we would support another law instead of this banishing text, which reads: "On no grounds, on any basis of religious conviction and religious beliefs, no Bulgarian citizen or resident citizen in the country has the right to refuse to identify himself by showing his person. That, if that is the problem, must have an explicit, explicit obligation! We'll back him up. The judgments of the Strasbourg court must therefore be read in full. The Strasbourg Court does not make such discriminatory laws possible. The Court of Strasbourg rejects such laws, but says: "The national parliaments, national laws can impose restrictions because they are necessary from the point of view of the rule of law, namely to restrict citizens from showing their persons to be identified. They can be obliged, we will vote with both hands for this obligation, but not for this absolutely unacceptable restriction. I recommend that the judgments of the Strasbourg Court be read in their entirety and that the scope of the Law also be seen in its entirety. Not 30 women from Pazardzhik, but tens and hundreds, thousands of women. This is about traditions, Bulgarian traditions, which will be denied and banned. We will vote strongly against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u235	Thank you, Mr. Mestan. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u236	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to take you back a week when, in this Chamber, in accordance with the Rules of the National Assembly, the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria. To a large extent, the issue we are dealing with today, the bill proposed by a group of MPs, we believe that it could normally enter our Draft Law not only because the Law proposed was introduced on 20 April, and our Bill was introduced another month and a half before that. We consider the issue of religion as one of Bulgaria's fundamental questions, which correspond directly with the Bulgarian Constitution, and in this regard we believe that matters of religion should not be considered politically, but be very delicate and very careful. In this regard, the subject, which puts the current Bill, fully involves wearing clothes and accessories that cover the person, or directly corresponds to the Religious Law. As proposed by this Law, we can indeed say that it concerns Muslim religion, but it does not only concern Muslim religion. And here I agree with the pre-talkers that we must be delicate and very careful when adopting the Law at second reading, delicately clearing these possibilities in it. The feeling that a law punishes should not be leading, even more with regard to the Law on Religions. Moreover, all of us here together two months ago adopted another Law on Gender Equality! In this regard, we need to reflect, and we need to comment. It was exported by both the importers and the committees that this Law is a Copi-Pass somewhat of the French law, not so much because of European laws, but it is a European practice now, and we should not hide that we will continue to deal with these laws and directly speaking with burkas and in the future, not just today. However, we must also make it clear that the Law comes on time, because largely in the different municipalities started, and this was also exported, in their own way, to bring in and to adopt their own decisions, which put in different settlements the individual Bulgarian citizens in disparity. We must not forget, and I am somewhat surprised that we are having a dispute in 2016, when, if we look back in history at the beginning of the 20th century, I would like to mention that in 1925, another April, father of this Law, or part of it, a fragment of it that we are looking at is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, not these six European countries. And we are now commenting on something that happened to this revolution in Turkey in reality that started, and this secular Turkey, which we are all proud of as our neighbours, and today, for more than 90 years afterwards, we have to comment on these issues. So, in principle, we will support this Law, but with these two main remarks: firstly, the Law must give an excuse for all Bulgarian women to be proud and show their self, their face, and, secondly, the ruling majority to try to withdraw the Law and bring it into a common Law with ours, so that we do not create precedents on certain subjects to create second, third and so on laws, and to try all this matter to bring it together into one law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u237	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u238	I would rather ask for an addition, Mr. Antonov, because from what we have heard so far from the stands, Mr. President, honourable Members, is connected and I do not know why it focuses only on the religious aspect of this part of the Law. No one pays attention to the aspect of national security. Some of the things we are talking about are related precisely to national security, precisely to the possibility of concealing the identity of people who intend to execute terrorist acts. Let's not forget football hooligans who also largely put masks on their faces. I took part in the protests on 17 February 2013 and there was also a group of provocators standing there in masks trying to bloody these peaceful marches and protests of the people. So, Mr. Antonov, I beg you very much, in your speech, when you take the floor... I understand that as Vice-President of the Committee on Human Rights and Religion, there is the burden of your speech, but remember also the aspect of national security, even more in the light of events already taking place relating to terrorist acts relating to bloodshed in Paris and in other countries. God forbid they never happen in Bulgaria, but it is good to have preventive measures, not to run after events, so I think that, apart from the religious aspect of which you said, you should have paid attention in your speech and the aspect of national security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u239	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Thanks for the coworker's addition. I would like to mention that we will have the opportunity, of course, to comment on the issues of national security, and not only that. The bill, which we are proposing with my fellow Members, is very much in line with the questions we are discussing today, to a large extent, the judicial practices that have existed since 2003 have been in place. However, we must realise once again that the Law on Religions was adopted in 2002, it started to work in 2003. I know that many disputes will wake up when it enters the Parliamentary Hall, but it is clear that only one fact will I say if we have in such a short time about 150 registered religions that form a serious liberal regime. And not only that. Extremely efforts are held until the very religion is registered, then there comes a time when many other processes are possible to develop in the religion and no one can tell how far they are suffering. However, let us not forget that we will have the opportunity to comment on this Law. I hope I've satisfied myself with my answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-15.u241	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for wearing clothing covering or hiding the face, No 654-01-58, submitted by Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov and a group of MPs on 20 April 2016. Please, honourable Members, vote. They voted 116 MPs: 108, against 8, no abstentions. The bill was passed in the first vote. [[Applause on the right.]] Dear colleagues, the time is 14.31. We've run out of time, definitely for today's parliamentary day. Tomorrow, we continue with the Second Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Governance, importing the Council of Ministers, on 23 November 2015, was adopted on the first vote on 15 April 2016. The next meeting is tomorrow at 9.00. The date is 16 June. In accordance with We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
