ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, as only three points remained from the weekly programme and the intended vote on yesterday's debates on first reading bills, on the basis of art. 50, para. 5 of the Rules, I suggest we include as further points: - A bill for ratification of a Guarantee, payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (garant), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Contract No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016; - Draft amendment and supplement to the Commercial Act - second vote; - A bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the implementation of the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism. We vote. Vote 141 MPs: 120 against 8, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. On the agenda of yesterday's scheduled votes for today are as follows: I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act with importers Petar Slavov and a group of MPs. We are voting on the first Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act. Vote 138 MPs: 132, against 5, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads with importers Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov. Vote 139 MPs: 135, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, in view of the time limits for proposals between the first and the second votes, as a General Law should be drawn up here, Mr. Ananiev, is he here? [[Noise and lines.]] It would be nice if during the day you could... [[Noise and lines.]] Who is the Commission here? [[Heckling]] Regional. It is good if within the day a general bill can be presented in order to announce it and to run the deadlines. Otherwise, we're going with the joint bill after... [[noise and lines]] But Mr. Ermenkov agrees that we should take our time. All right, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u2	At the forty-fourth National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u3	It's nice to watch it in the second vote, too, that's why. We are continuing with the scheduled votes from yesterday. I put to the first vote the Law on Supplement to the Law on Regional Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 1 I am proposing that the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes under the Regional Development Act be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u5	A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on Mr. Nenkov's proposal. They voted 129 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development with registration index RD-50-127/26 September 2016. Vote 131 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is led by this ratification. Mr. Rumen Hristov, proposal for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I am proposing that the bill be dealt with in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u7	We vote. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We're listening to a second vote report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a second vote. THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement for the provision of advisory services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50 127/26.09.2016) A single member. Ratification of the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (with registration index RD 50-127/26.09.2016) Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u9	Statements for a second vote? I won't. We vote. They voted 125 MPs: 123, none, abstention 2. Ratification was accepted at second reading. I put to the first vote a bill for ratifying the agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. They voted 125 MPs: 123, none, abstention 2. Ratification accepted at first reading. Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u10	Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am making a motion to vote on the newly voted Draft in the first vote and, secondly, in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u11	We vote. Vote 110 MPs: 108, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u12	THE LAW OF THE on ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Art. 1. Ratified the Agreement for the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Education and Science and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 22 August 2016 in Sofia. Art. 2. Gives consent to the agreement under art. 1 shall not be promulgated in the Official Journal. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u13	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! As stated in the report, which I presented to you at yesterday's meeting and then in my speech in the Committee on Education and Science we united with our colleagues Art. 2 of the proposed Bill to be dropped. That's why I'm making this proposal right now. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u15	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote Mrs. Damyanova's proposal. 2 of the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement to be rejected. They voted 133 MPs: 130, against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We vote on the name of the Bill by art. 1 which becomes Art. 1. the sole, final provision, the name of the subdivision and the single paragraph of the Final provision. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The proposal has been adopted and with this the Ratification of a second vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Commercial Shipping. Vote 110 MPs: for 107, none against abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Signature. They voted 122 MPs: 118, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Before going to the next point - one message: with entry No 654-00-160 of 21 November 2016 on the basis of Art. 82 of the Rules of Procedure Martin Ivanov informs me that he withdraws the bill submitted by him on 8 December 2016. Draft for amendment and supplement of the Water Act with reasons to it, No 654-01-138. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR DISCRIMINATION PROTECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. There is also a report presented by the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u16	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. At a regular meeting held on 6 October 2016, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights examined and discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Ms. Denitsa Sacheva Deputy Minister and Mrs. Irina Ivanova Head of Department of the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids. Dr. Ana Dzhumalieva, Chairman of the Commission, and Dr. Baki Huseinov, Vice-President, as well as representatives of NGOs. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Ms. Denitsa Sacheva. She explained that the first change is related to the regulation of the notion of "indirect discrimination', which extends the circle of persons to whom the principle of equal treatment applies, including those who suffer adverse treatment along with protected persons based on their race, ethnic origin and other signs regulated in art. 4, para. 1 of the Law. The European Court of Justice has thus corrected the deficiency of the definitions of indirect discrimination in the Law on Protection against Discrimination, which is currently repeating the conceptual definition of direct discrimination. The proposed change also makes it possible to protect those persons who suffer from the adverse treatment of persons, even though they are not carriers of some of the protected signs. The second amendment is as regards the adjustment of the definition of adverse treatment, taking into account the decision of the European Court of Justice that, in order for discrimination to take place, it is sufficient that the contested practice constitutes less favourable treatment of one person to another. There is no need to affect legal rights and interests, as is the requirement in the Law on Protection against Discrimination at the moment, because this requirement limits the level of protection against discrimination. It is therefore incompatible with the Directive and it is proposed to be abolished by bringing the text into line with the European Court of Justice's decision. Ms. Tsacheva pointed out that the bill aims to bring national legislation into line with the requirements of Directive 2043/EC on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons, without distinction between race or ethnic origin. The proposed changes were jointly made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Council of Ministers. This aims not only to improve the protection against discrimination, but also to prevent the possible opening by the European Commission of proceedings against Bulgaria for failure to comply with art. 258 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In the course of the discussion, support was expressed for the Bill and questions were answered in full by the Deputy Minister of Justice and the President of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u18	Honourable President, honourable Members, I present ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. At its extraordinary meeting held on 16 November 2016, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination submitted by the Council of Ministers. Mrs Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, took part in the Commission meeting. I. This Bill aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into line with the requirements of Directive 2000/43/EC on the application of the principle of equal treatment of persons without difference of race or ethnic origin. The proposed amendments to the Law on Protection against Discrimination are the result of commitments made by the Republic of Bulgaria in response to a letter from the Directorate-General for Justice and Consumers. The reason for the correspondence is the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union (EUJ) of 16 July 2015 in Case C-83/14, made in connection with a reference for a preliminary ruling to the Administrative Court of Justice of Sofia city. II. In its letter, the EC states that the definition of indirect discrimination introduced in this Law does not comply with Directive 2000/43/EC. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4, para. 3 of the Law on Protection against Discrimination is referred to as indirect discrimination as placing persons in a less favourable position on the basis of their race or ethnic origin. For its part, the directive does not require that on what basis or for what reason these people are placed in a less favourable position. In this regard, it is noted that the provisions in force in the Bulgarian legislation reduce the protection against discrimination laid down in Directive 2000/43/EC (in particular art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 § 1 thereof). III. For its part, the Court of Justice of the European Union concluded that the interpretation of the Directive precludes national provisions under which, in order to accept discrimination, rights or interests established in law must be affected. It is sufficient that the contested practice constitutes less favourable treatment of one person to another on the basis of its race or ethnic origin. It is concluded that § 1, t. 7 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Protection against Discrimination limits the level of protection against discrimination laid down in art. 2, § 2 (a) and (b) of the Directive and is therefore incompatible with it. IV. Last but not least, it should be noted that this bill does not provide for a direct and/or indirect impact on the state budget. The proposed changes aim to contribute to the harmonisation of Bulgarian legislation with the provisions of Directive 2000/43/EC and to extend the scope of the Law on Protection against Discrimination by including protection of persons who suffer adverse treatment, along with persons who are protected on the basis of their race or ethnic origin. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds unanimously proposed by 15 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u19	Thank you. I do not see any representatives of the importer, so, honourable Members, I am opening the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? I don't see any colleagues who want to speak. I'm closing the debate and we're going to move on to a vote. My fellow Members, I am putting to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination, No 602-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 8 July 2016. Please, voting mode. They voted 114 MPs: for 101, against 10, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you have heard, the bill has been adopted unanimously in both committees and there are no proposals, I propose that the bill be dealt with at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u21	Is there a second reading report? A reverse opinion? I won't. Colleagues, we are voting on Mr. Velchev's proposal, which is procedural for consideration of the bill and at second reading. Vote 112 MPs: 101, Against 9, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear Mr. Velchev, please present the Law. I see that it has a title and consists of two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 para. 3 is amended as follows: Indirect discrimination is the placing of a person or persons with a sign under art. 4, para. 1 or to persons who, without having been carriers of such a sign, jointly with the first suffer less favourable treatment or are placed in a particular disadvantage arising from a seemingly neutral provision, criterion or practice, unless the provision, criterion or practice are objectively justified in the light of a legal objective and the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary. § 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 is amended as follows: "7." In the case of a natural or legal person who is a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person or a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person or a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person or a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural person, a natural
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u23	Statements at second reading? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have decided to make proposals between first and second readings, true, we have not stated them, now I am doing this in this House, but these acts, colleagues, mean that if someone looks at you crookedly or for example winks at your colleague, and you do not wink that you will be given the opportunity to be condemned for discrimination. Here I would like to point out to you that this bill was not written by the experts who should have written it, that is, by experts from the Ministry of Justice, but written by experts from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, who are probably exceptional experts in the field of discrimination... In order to think about what you are going to vote on now, I should probably read you the texts again. Alinea 3 in art. 4 is amended as follows: Indirect discrimination is the placing of a person or persons with a sign under art. 4, para. 1 or to persons who, without having been carriers of such a claim, pay attention to the person without being carriers of the first person, are suffering less favourable treatment. I say again: you looked at someone crooked, you winked at someone else or someone else, so they wouldn't charge me now by the Law of Equality between Women and Men, or by some other law, because we adopted a different sex here some time ago, that means that anyone can bring you a lawsuit or a file in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Believe me, colleagues, this is not serious, this is not serious! Moreover, the two plays that are offered to us, in addition to everything, give us the opportunity to strain tensions and the more dangerous one to limit freedom of speech! I would like to ask: which of you here is to limit the freedom of speech on these two plays, because this is aimed through these two plays? This is extremely dangerous in a democratic society, on unexplained grounds, to put freedom of speech in extremely dangerous, limiting frameworks. [[Noise and lines.]] For this reason, Madam President, I am proposing that § 1 and § 2 be removed from the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u25	Thank you. Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Bayraktarov, I don't agree with you at all! In your speech you made a very serious mistake: you did not say the most important flaw in the proposed new definitions. In those cases of unfair treatment, note that there is no effect on the legitimate rights and interests of those who will be subject to such treatment. If there's no such counterproductive outcome, what exactly are we going to protect them from?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u27	Second line? The hole is Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Mitev, in fact you agree with me, but you have added the gap that I have not been able to develop for the reason that the regulated speaking time would have expired.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u29	Oh, you still have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u30	Thank you, Madam President. What you have said is extremely important from a legal point of view, because when you make claims about something that has not violated your legal rights, the question arises where is the case, where is the standard violated, and what is the violation of it? Thank you very much for expanding things and giving us the opportunity for more minutes to explain to our colleagues that what we are going to accept first is a legal nonsense. Absolutely nonsense! It is unacceptable for the National Assembly to adopt this as a law, because it means adopting something that not only will not act as it should, but will create much more serious public problems, which is why it is unacceptable for the National Assembly to vote and move on such dangerous norms. Again: these dangerous norms are the result of a different form of interpretation by different people. When there are different forms of interpretation, for which, unfortunately, there is no further caselaw, this means to obtain a trendy attitude, first of all, to certain journalists, media, and hence to every single person. Imagine if a politician entered a debate and started to apply these norms, they would tell him the game of various human rights defenders from my favorite Helsinki Committee. Imagine what a field would open up to these human rights defenders. [[makes a sign with your hand]] who everyone knows how many are human rights defenders. This will be achieved with these texts. I hope that my colleagues have already gone into thinking mode because it was very easy to adopt this Bill at first reading, but if my proposals are not accepted to drop these two paragraphs, I will take a procedure to postpone the review of the Bill today at second reading, because somehow pre-Christmas, pre-emptive, colleagues, we will make one extremely serious mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u31	Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I put to the vote the name of the bill, namely: Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against Discrimination. Vote 109 MPs: 91, Against 14, abstention 4. Name accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal to reject § 1 by importer. They voted 97 MPs: 32, against 37, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u32	Thank you, Madam President. The colleague from the Committee on Labour and Social Policy Dr. Stoyanova just walked in and could not vote. This is the formal occasion.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u33	She was in, but you distracted her, Mr. Bayraktarov. Thank you. Revoting, coworkers! They voted 114 MPs: 30, 47, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote § 1 by importer. Vote 116 MPs: 93 against 16, abstention 7. Paragraph 1 has been accepted. By § 2, I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's motion to reject § 2 of the Bill. They voted 111 MPs: for 28, against 52, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote § 2 by importer. They voted 114 MPs: 95, against 12, abstention 7. The proposal is adopted, and with this the Law of the Second Voting. Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROCURSITION OF THE CHEMIC ARMOURAGE AND FOR CONTROL OF TOXIC CHIMIC AND THEIR PROCURSORS. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u34	♪ I can't believe under the bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and controlling toxic chemicals and their precursors, No 602-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 7 December 2016 examined and discussed the bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors, No 602-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016. At the meeting of the Ministry of Economy attended: Lyuben Petrov "Deputy Minister," and Hristo Atanasov - Director at the International Controlled Trade and Security Directorate. The bill was presented by Mr. Luben Petrov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to supplement existing administrative criminal provisions relating to violations and non-compliance with the requirements of art. 10, para. 7 and 8 of the Law on the transfer from and to the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria to and from a Community State of chemical substances of Annexes 2 and 3 as well as to violations in the submission of information to the Interdepartmental Commission by the Bulgarian natural or legal person within 7 days prior to the transfer, according to the Order of the Minister of Economy, i.e. penalties shall apply to non-compliance with requirements of a declarative nature. After a vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and to control toxic chemicals and their precursors, No 602-01-77, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u35	Statements? I won't. I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Chemical Weapons Ban Act and the control of toxic chemicals and their precursors, No 602-01-77. Vote 88 MPs: for 87, there is no abstention. The bill was passed at first reading. Coming up next: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR INTERPRETATION OF ARTICLE 1. 3, AL. 3, T. 1 IT. 3 "A" OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE AFTER-TREATISATION CONTROL. The representatives of the National Assembly are Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev. A report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism has been submitted. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. We are listening to the report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u36	♪ I can't believe on the bill of interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 (b) Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 654-01-107, submitted by Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev on 19 September 2016. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 23 November 2016, examined and discussed the Bill for the interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 (a) (b) of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 654 01 107, submitted by Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev on 19 September 2016. The meeting was attended by: from the Ministry of Economy Valentin Gruev, Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of State Participation and Lachezar Borisov, Head of the Department of Government and Restructuring of State Participation and representatives of non-governmental organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Martin Dimitrov. According to the importer, the draft is the coup d'état and incorrect interpretation of the Privatization Act and the post-privatization control by the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control regarding the sales of the so-called parts concerned by commercial companies listed in Annex 1 of the Law. The Agency never had the right to make those sales. Importers have not delivered an opinion on the expected consequences, including financial ones, of the implementation of the bill. The Ministry of Finance in its opinion considers that the editing of art. 3, para. 3, p. Point 3 (a) of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act (PBSK) is clear and does not need an interpretation. In respect of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1, the exact meaning in the application of the legal rule is clarified in the systematic interpretation of the provision in conjunction with the norm of art. 3, para. 3, p. In this regard, there is no need for an authentic interpretation by the National Assembly through the adoption of an interpretive law. The future clarification of the provisions of art. 3 could be implemented with the corresponding changes in the ZSK. In their opinions, the Ministry of Economy and the Agency for Privatization and Post-Privatization Control consider that a law for the interpretation of a provision is legally justified where there are unclear texts. It is considered that in respect of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3, b. This ambiguity is missing from the SPB. The purpose of the submitted Bill for the interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. Article 3 (3) (b) of the SSK could not be achieved in the way of the interpretation of the provisions applied to it, but only by amending art. 3, para. 3 of the ZSK. The proposed Final provision of the Law on the Return of the Law, which provides for its entry into force from the adoption of the SSK, i.e. since 2002, will lead to nullity of the transactions carried out so far by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, numerous legal proceedings and loss of significant financial resources by the State. After closing the discussion and voting with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: it proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt the bill for interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 letter (s) of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 654-01-107, submitted by Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov and Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. On behalf of the importers, come in, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There are laws big, there are laws small. However, small and large laws differ not only in their volume, but also in their importance and their sounding in society. We have witnessed in the past months how a will that was declared at the time, which I, by the way, participated in the Thirty-eighth Assembly when this Law was being prepared, and it was adopted 2002, how a will of the people's representation, of the parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria, was surrounded, was found a scheme to surround it. When this Law was voted on, the idea was that the legislator's will was that certain undertakings could not be sold under the table. This should be done with the active will, the conscious will of the National Assembly and only on a proposal from the Council of Ministers. With the latter case, which was the reason to submit this Bill. This is the case of the privatisation of the so-called parts of BODK in Boyana, we want to end a scheme. And it's very strange when two ministries, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, in some strange cartel, explain that if you saw it, it would cause a loss to the state, cases, and I don't know what! And is there no loss, and there is no loss in trust in particular, when some enterprises that enter into a list called "Annex 1" to this Law can be sold without the knowledge of the MPs, without a sanction to parliament? More than that! The buyer can collect his own parts. I believe that this is a mockery of the will of the people's representation. If we really listen to the recommendations of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and if we do not stand as MPs of our own opinion and defend our own dignity, we will either become accomplices or look like the last fools. More like, maybe, as accomplices! What are we doing? At the moment, if we do not accept this proposal that we have made, we will practically denounce our will, we will give up our will to be informed and to make conscious decisions in relation to such privatisations. This isn't the only privatization! Just to remind ourselves how in 2013 a sign company for Plovdiv was taken out for the Plovdiv Fair. Then all of them, as a result of several governments, starting from the three coalitions, kept silent and did politics and eventually what happened.. The Plovdiv Fair was privatized by the companies of the member of the Supreme Party Council of BSP Mr. Georgi Gergov. Is that what happened? That's what happened. Has the state stepped down from its positions? Step back. Are there accusations against the people's representations, whether they are GERB, BSP and so on, that they are in some kind of collusion with these, let's say, behind-the-scenes interests? There is. Now, at the moment, is the second proposal. The fact that the Foreign Ministry proposed that the other day such a decision should be explicitly discharged all undertakings which cannot be privatised means that there is a problem. So one ministry can't ask for it and others can't. And I ask myself a question: in fact, the cartel, which is formed between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, who does it work for? Take it as a question or as an answer! Dear Members of the National Assembly, this Bill is one of the few laws that restore justice, restores people's faith that there are MPs here who defend the real state interest. Put those stories aside for the Privatization Agency. What is more important is the will of the legislator, our will, or the opinion of some officials who are standing somewhere doing what interests? It is impossible for some officials, with their misinterpretation of a text, to be stronger than the will of a parliament, which once, 14 years ago, has clearly expressed its will that nothing can be sold from this list without a sanction, an express sanction of the National Assembly, and that is after the request of the Council of Ministers. I can't be an accomplice, nor can I look like a fool. I will vote for this Law. I call on all of you to shake off your political bias, to shake off who has recommended what, to stand up as MPs and to protect the state's interest. This is the leading interest that we have advocated with this proposal. I ask you, as colleagues, as decent people, to really protect the state's interest. Vote for this bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u39	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. I'm opening the debate. Statements? There aren't any. I'm closing the debate. Honourable Members, I shall put to the first vote the bill for interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 letter (s) of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control with importers, Mr. Slavov, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Andreyev on 19 September 2016. Please, voting mode. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. [[Applause.]] The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill at first reading. Honourable Members, we are moving on to the next bill, which has been voted on further for today's programme. First, we will consider: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE BALANCES OF BULGARIA (Grant) OF 23 AUGUST 2016 IN THE BENEFICIARY OF THE BULGARIAN CREDIT FUTURE (KFB) SUBMISSION WITH REGARD TO CREDIT AGREEMENT No 27691 OF UP TO EUR 100 000 000, CLOSED BETWEEN CREDIT FUTURE WIEDAUFBAU (KFB) AND BULGARIAN BANK FOR DEVELOPMENT OF THE 16 AUGUST 2016 Next up are reports. A report from the Budget and Finance Committee was first presented. Mrs. Yordanova, please introduce him to us and be careful with the pronunciation of the bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee), as of 23 August 2016. For the purposes of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the words "the Court of Justice of the European Union' shall read "the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union' shall read "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union' and "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union', "the Court of Justice of the European Union', "the At a regular meeting held on 20 October 2016, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee), of 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Fuhr Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between the KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2016. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The guarantee to be paid on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Fuir Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Housing Buildings (NZEE) of up to EUR 100 000, concluded by KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank (BBR) on 16 August 2016, was concluded in connection with the implementation of the National Programme of Energy Efficiency of Multi-Family Buildings (NFE), adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. The necessary financial resources to finance the implementation of the energy efficiency measures under the National Programme shall be provided by the BBR through loans from leading financial institutions. In the performance of art. 73 of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The National Assembly ratified by Law adopted on 20 April 2016. The Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe concerning the Framework Agreement on a loan amounting to EUR 150,000 between the BBR and the BRCE for partial financing of NPEE concluded by Exchange of Letters of 24 and 29 February 2016. In order to provide the necessary resources to finance the energy efficiency measures under the National Programme on 16 August 2016, the BBI concluded a credit agreement of up to EUR 100 000 000 with KFW. By issuing the guarantee, the guarantor of the Republic of Bulgaria, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees KFW the duly fulfilling of all financial obligations of the borrower under the loan agreement between KFW and the BBI. The guarantor's payment obligations under the guarantee become due at the first written request of the KFW, indicating the amount due by the borrower of the overdue debts in accordance with the loan agreement. The payment shall be made within 10 bank days of the request for payment to the KFW and the amounts shall be transferred in a specific account for that purpose. All payments are made in euros, and the costs of the payments are borne by the guarantor. The signing and ratification of the guarantee in connection with the credit agreement between the KFW and the BBI is a precondition for the absorption of the funds from the loan. With the entry into force of the guarantee will provide financial resources for the implementation of the projects for renovation of multi-family residential buildings within the National Programme. The guarantee shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held which ended with the following results: With 11 votes in favour of abstentions and 4 without abstentions, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Bill for ratification of the Guarantee, payable at the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Bulgaria), as of 23 August 2016 in favour of Creditanstalt Fuur Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Contract No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KfV and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Her chairman, Mr. Kirilov, will present him to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (a guarantee), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2016. At its meeting held on 23 November 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee), of 23 August 2016 in favour of Creditanstalt Fuhr Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KF and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Feyzi Bekir Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Rositsa Dimitrova State Expert in the Directorate of International Financial Institutions and Cooperation and by the Bulgarian Development Bank: Mr. Bilyan Balev Executive Director, and Mrs. Zaharina Todorova Head of Management. The bill was presented by Mr. Bekir, who pointed out that the guarantee granted by the Republic of Bulgaria to the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KFW) was in connection with the Loan Contract No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016. The Loan Treaty aims to provide the necessary resource for energy efficiency measures under the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings adopted by Decree No 18 of the Council of Ministers of 2015. By issuing the guarantee the Republic of Bulgaria ensures that all financial obligations of the borrower under the Loan Agreement between KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank are fulfilled. The signing and ratification of the guarantee in connection with the loan agreement between KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank is a precondition for absorption of funds from the loan. The agreement shall be subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 8 votes in favour, without abstention and 6 votes in favour of the National Assembly, proposes to adopt at first vote a Bill for ratification of the Guarantee, payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (garant), of 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Fuhr Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Credit Agreement No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000, concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13.10.2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements, honourable Members, on the proposed bill? If someone is speaking, the entire name must be used by the bank. [[Radio.]] Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please, fellow Members, take your seats, including those who are in the couloirs. Honourable Members, we are voting for a Draft Law on the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (Guarantee), as of 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditanstalt Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Treaty No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000, concluded between KfW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016, No 602-02-36, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2016. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 63, against 2, abstention 17. [[Noise and lines.]] Mrs. Yordanova, re-vote. I've given enough opportunity, but it looks like someone didn't make it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u44	Mr. Chairman, I saw colleagues coming in after you announced the end of the vote, so I'm asking for a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u45	Dear colleagues, re-vote. Please vote on the Bill at first reading. [[Noise and lines.]] Please listen to the attempt to discipline. Did everyone get a vote? They voted 102 MPs: for 76, against 3, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please, on the basis of art. 77, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, allow a second vote on the newly adopted ratification.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u47	Please, honourable Members, vote on the proposal made to examine the bill at second reading. Vote 97 MPs: 75 against 14, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please report the bill with a single member, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u48	Thank you. THE LAW OF THE for the ratification of a Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (garnant), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Contract No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016. A single member. Ratification of the Guarantee payable on the first request provided by the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Finance of the Republic of Bulgaria (garant), from 23 August 2016 in favour of the Creditant Führer Videraufbau (KfW) in connection with the Loan Contract No 27691 amounting to EUR 100 000 000 concluded between KFW and the Bulgarian Development Bank on 16 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u49	Thank you. Words per article one-on-one? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the name of the Law as well as a single member. Voted 103 MPs: 77 against 17, abstention 9. The proposal is adopted, with which the bill at second reading. Dear Members, we are moving on to the next, final item on today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TRADE LAW. We have a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs for second reading. Mr. Kirilov, please come to the stand and introduce us to the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I present to your attention a Report on the Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016. The Law of Commerce is amended and supplemented by the Law of Trade. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u51	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, on the name of both paragraphs submitted by the President of the Commission? I won't. Dear colleagues, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, on the name of the Law, as well as texts of the importer, supported by the Commission, for paragraphs 1 and 2. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u52	Paragraph 3. Proposal from the National Representative Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle, i.e. 1 is reflected in its systematic place in § 23. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 137 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 4 and 5. For the decisions taken under para. 1, t. 2, 4, t. 5, proposal first, etc. 7 a protocol shall be drawn up with a notary authentication of signatures and content carried out simultaneously, unless written in the company contract. (5) Small are decisions of the General Assembly adopted in violation of para. 4. 2. Previously on AMC's... 4 and 5 become respectively. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u53	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 3. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u54	Paragraph 4. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The trader is not supposed to be able to fulfil a required obligation under para. 1 if, prior to the submission of the application for the opening of the insolvency proceedings, it has not declared its annual financial statements in the commercial register for the last three years. (3) Insolvency shall be assumed when the debtor has suspended payments. The suspension of payments is also available where the debtor has paid full or partial claims to certain creditors. 2. The creation of para. 4. The insolvency shall be assumed if, in execution proceedings initiated for the execution of an act entered into force to the creditor who applied under art. 625, the claim remained wholly or partly dissatisfied within 6 months of receipt of the invitation or of the voluntary execution message. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 661, para. 2 words.............................................................................. In addition, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u55	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the importer's enblock text, edited by the Commission, for § 4, the importer's text, supported by the Commission, for § 5, the Commission's proposal for a new § 6, as well as the importer's text for § 6, which, on a proposal from the Commission, becomes § 7. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u56	Proposal by the MP Yavor Haytov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal by the MP Chavdar Georgiev, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Section IIa is created in Chapter 40 and second with art. 668a and 668b: "Department IIa" "Employee-Syndicat" Competentness Art. 668a. (1) The Assistant Syndicate may carry out certain actions within the competence of the trade union following its instructions and under the order of art. 660, para. 2. (2) The Assistant Syndicate may sign certain documents in relation to the activities of the trade union, adding to his signature the Assistant Assistant. (3) For the damages of guilty failure to fulfil the obligations of the Assistant Syndicate, the trade union shall be responsible jointly with it. (4) The relations between the trade union and the assistant Syndicate shall be settled by contract. (5) Insofar as there are no special rules for assistant syndics, the rules for the trade union shall apply. Requirements Art. 668b. (1) The Assistant Syndicate shall be a natural person who shall meet the conditions laid down in art. 655, para. 2, p. 6 except for the requirement for an internship in the speciality which is not less than two years. (2) For the acquisition of a qualification as an assistant assistant shall be subject to an examination in accordance with the order laid down by the ordinance under art. 655a, al. 1. (3) The Minister of Justice shall issue an order for the inclusion of the person who has acquired the qualification as an Assistant Syndicate to the list under art. 655, para. 2, p. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u57	Are there any speeches on the proposed new paragraph? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u58	Dear Mr. President, I would like to make a proposal for an amendment regarding the text on art. 668b, para. 1 where after the indication of the conditions under art. 655, para. 2, points 1 "6" to be added. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union: This corresponds to the Commission's will and debate and means that a trade union that is punished for failing to comply with its official commitments by the court cannot act as an assistant Syndicate after this punishment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u59	- What's the line? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal in art. 668b, para. 1 after the expression 2, p. 1.............................................................................................. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union: We vote Mr. Kirilov's supplement. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are now voting for the creation of § 8.. in Chapter forty-two to create Section IIa with Articles 668a and 668b. We vote § 8. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u60	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The first meeting of the creditors shall not be held if: 1. the debtor before submitting the application for the opening of the insolvency proceedings has not declared his annual financial statements in the Commercial Register for the last three years; 2. the debtor has failed to fulfil his obligations under art. 640 and did not provide the interim trade union with its trade books or if its trade books were clearly incorrect. (4) In the cases under para. 3 The temporary trade union appointed by the court shall exercise its powers until the appointment of a permanent trade union by the meeting of creditors after approval of the list under art. 692 of the court. Under Paragraph 8, the Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of the paragraph which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the 1. In the text so far, the last entry is added by not taking into account the votes of: 2. They're creating a t. 1 and 2: "1." the creditors who are related to the debtor or have been related to the debtor in the last three years prior to the opening of the insolvency proceedings; 2. creditors who have acquired claims from related parties with the debtor in the last three years prior to the opening of the insolvency proceedings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u61	Are there any statements under paragraphs 9 and 10 on the Commission report? I won't. We are voting on the two paragraphs in the version of the Commission and in their new numbering. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u62	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Article 694 is amended as follows: "Presentation of explanatory claims Art. 694. (1) The debtor may bring an action for the establishment of the non-existence of: 1. accepted claim if he has made an objection under art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, but the court left the objection without respect; 2. claim included in the list of accepted claims with the definition referred to in art. 692, para. 4. (2) A creditor with the non-receiving claim may bring an action to establish the existence of the non-receiving claim if: 1. has made an objection under Article 1. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, but the court left his objection without respect; 2. the claim made by the creditor is excluded from the list of accepted claims with the definition of art. 692, para. 4 in opposition to the debtor or another creditor. (3) A creditor may bring an action to establish the non-existence of: 1. accepted claim of another creditor if he has made an objection under art. In addition, the Commission considers that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, but the court left the objection without respect; 2. claim of another creditor included in the list of accepted claims with the definition of art. 692, para. 4. (4) The Syndicate shall be obliged to participate in the proceedings under para. 3. In the proceedings under para. 2 may act as third parties suppliers of the debtor, creditors with accepted claims under art. 693 as well as creditors whose claims are the subject of a claim under para. 3. (5) In the case of an action brought by the debtor under para. 1 or an action brought by a creditor under para. 3 No other creditor may bring the same action, but may intervene in the proceedings of the case as a co-worker until the first hearing of the case. (6) An action under para. 1 " 3" shall be brought before the insolvency court within 14 days of the date of the announcement in the commercial register of the order of the court under art. 692, para. 4 and shall be dealt with by another Chamber of the Court (7) The State fee shall be fixed on one quarter of the claim for which the finding claim is made. In the event of the application, no prior state charge shall be paid. If the action is dismissed, the costs shall be borne by the plaintiff. (8) The decision in force on an action under para. For the purpose of this Decision, the Commission shall assess whether the conditions laid down in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 are met. (9) In the rescue plan, in the case of the allocation of the cash assets respectively, reserves for the non-receiving claim are mandatory. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 12. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 11, which becomes § 13, proposing to create a title of art. 717e: "Payment of the price" and in para. 1 and 2 the word "one-day' is replaced by "7-day'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u63	Statements under paragraphs 11, 12 and 13 of the Commission report? I won't. We vote on the three paragraphs. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. Unanimously, these proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u64	Paragraph 12 "A proposal from the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November In accordance with The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Article 717n is amended as follows: sale of mortgaged or pledged property Art. 717n. (1) In the case of the sale of property which is mortgaged or pledged by the debtor to secure foreign debt or acquired by the debtor, burdened with a mortgage or pledge, the trade union shall send to the creditor collateral a notice of timing of the sale. (2) For the amounts received from the sale of assets mortgaged or pledged to foreign debt, a separate allocation account shall be drawn up indicating also the amounts due to a creditor. The secured creditor shall have the rights under art. 728 and 729 as regards the allocation account. (3) A defaulting amount of collateral shall be retained by the syndicate and transmitted to the creditor after the creditor has submitted an executive sheet of claim or certified to the trade union that the secured claim is accepted in the insolvency proceedings of the person whose debt is secured by the sold property. (4) The amount of the allocation of a creditor secured by a special pledge shall be retained by the trade union and transmitted to the creditor on the basis of a certificate submitted by the register for the listing of a special pledge and a declaration with a notarisation of the signature for the current amount of the secured claim. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19, by proposing in: 1. Art. 770 para. 4 the word "Stabilization' is replaced by "Stabilization'. 2. Art. 771, para. 3 the word "s' is replaced by "proofs' under art. 770 para. 2. The words................................................................................................ 770 para. 2 "7" shall be replaced by "c." 770 para. 3 " 7 ". 3. Art. 772 words attached to the application for the opening of the proceedings shall be deleted. 4. Art. 776, para. 7 the words "the previous' shall be replaced by "al'. 2.. 5................................................................................ 5. Art. 777 para. The first paragraph shall be replaced by the following: 1.................................................................................. 6. Art. 780 para. 5 the words "the previous' shall be replaced by "al'. 2. s 4............................................................................ 7. Art. 782, para. 1 the words of the court shall be deleted, in para. 3 the word "front" is deleted and after the word "sentence" is added to "sentence" and in para. 4 the word "Inscription' is replaced by "Announcement'. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 787 para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered 9. Article 791 is amended as follows: ? Action of the plan Art. 791. (1) The stabilisation plan established by the court shall be binding on the trader and creditors whose claims arose before the date of the decision to validate the plan, including those who did not participate in the proceedings or voted against the plan. (2) The plan shall not take effect for a creditor who is not included in the list of creditors or has not been given the opportunity to vote in the adoption of the plan. (3) The plan shall be without prejudice to the rights of creditors in respect of their established collateral, including in respect of the collateral established by third parties and the rights of creditors against joint debtors. (4) The plan shall also take effect for unlimitedly responsible partners, except where otherwise provided. (5) The taking of each creditor under para. 1 shall be converted as set out in the plan. (6) The trader shall be obliged to carry out immediately the structural changes envisaged by the plan. (7) With the entry into force of the order of the court to validate the plan, the powers of the trusted person and the pending insolvency proceedings shall be terminated. (8) By validating the stabilisation plan, enforcement and enforcement shall be suspended under the Law on Special Bets. The suspended enforcement cases and enforcement actions shall be resumed when the plan is not implemented. 8. Art. 796, para. 1, t. 7 after the word "Stabilization Plan" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u65	Statements on paragraphs 14 to 19 included? I won't. We vote on these paragraphs. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u66	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 21, and in point 2 (b) (i) concerning art. 189 para. 1 the words "agreement in the stabilisation proceedings' shall be replaced by "plan in the stabilisation proceedings'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 22. Paragraph 21? a proposal by the National Representative Chavdar Georgiev, made in accordance with art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on Notary and Notary Activities (Obn., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The persons referred to in paragraph 2 shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article and shall be the persons referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 shall not certify signatures of private documents in the cases referred to in Article 1. 15, para. Art. 1, art. 129, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 137, para. 6 of the Commercial Law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: ,(2) For the notary verification of the content of a document, which under the Commercial Law and the Special Bets Act is carried out simultaneously with the certification of the signatures of the same, is due to a simple notary fee. Under § 22, there is a proposal from the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with Article 22. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the substation in the version until 4 November 2016 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Paragraph 17 shall enter into force within 6 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u67	Statements on the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions', together with paragraphs 18 to 24 including those contained therein? I won't. We vote. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The proposals were adopted unanimously, with this in the second vote and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. Last item of our legislative programme for the current 2016 LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTERY OF THE TURISM OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE WORLD ORGANIZATION OF TURISM (COT) FOR THE INTERPRETATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL CONGRESSION OF WORLD CIVILISATIONS AND MODER TURISUM, No 602-02-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2016. There has been a report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mrs. Saveklieva, please present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SET) on the implementation of the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism, No 602-02-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2016. At its regular meeting held on 14 December, 2016 the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism in the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the implementation of the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism. The bill was presented by the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. The ratification of the Agreement for the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism is the legal basis for the holding of the Congress. The Agreement itself is a standard document which the World Organisation for Tourism to the United Nations signs with each of the Parties when organizing joint events due to the binding arbitration clause and the requirements and measures imposed by the specialized agencies of the organisation. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism in the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism, No 602-02-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u69	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the first vote the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism in the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SET) on the implementation of the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism, No 602-02-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 December 2016. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted in the first vote. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva. The procedure for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u70	Madam President, I propose a procedure for the second vote on the newly adopted Law on ratification of the Agreement. A reverse opinion? I won't. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted the offer. Report for the second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u71	Dear colleagues! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism A single member. It ratifies the Agreement between the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Bulgaria and the World Tourism Organisation (SCT) on the International Congress of World Civilizations and Modern Tourism, signed in Sofia on 17 August 2016 and in Madrid on 19 August 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u72	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We vote ratification at second reading. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. One message, colleagues. With an inch. No 653-04-51 of 22 December 2016 the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management has drawn up a joint Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, which is drawn up on the basis of art. 78, para. 2 of the Rules on the basis of the adopted in the first vote on 22 December this year Draft 654-01-131, submitted by Alexander Nenkov and Stanislav Ivanov, and Draft No 654-01-59, submitted by Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. The communication shall be made with regard to the time limits for proposals under the joint bill between the first and second votes. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that according to the decision adopted by us on the work of the 43rd National Assembly in December 2016 and January 2017 until January 6th are not present, not working days, as we are on Christmas holidays. The time limits for draft proposals between the first and second votes shall start with effect from January 7th. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to comply with the time limits. The committees meet on January 9th and 10th, which is Monday and Tuesday. The first plenary session shall be on 11 January 2017, 9:00 p.m. Mr. Slavov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u73	Madam President, a procedure under the general bill that you read just now under the Roads Act. We propose that the time limit for proposals between readings be reduced to 3 days, that is to say that they can be made by January 9th, including proposals between the two readings under the general bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-12-22.u74	The three-day deadline starts at 7, 8 and expires on Monday 9th by 6 p.m. There's no opposite opinion. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. This concludes the work of the 43rd National Assembly for the calendar year 2016. Let's wish for bright Christmas and New Year holidays, to be alive and healthy, to have peace and warmth in the families, to be alive and healthy citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria, to rest with new forces the first plenary session on January 11, 2014, Wednesday, at 9 am. [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] I'm shutting down the plenary year! [[PHONE RINGING]]
