ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. I offer to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 27 to 29 January 2016. 1. Second vote on a bill amending the Labour Code. Importers: Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Mariana Todorova, Hassan Ademov and Stefan Kenov. 2. The second vote on the Public Procurement Bill was a continuation of last week's plenary. 3. A choice of deputy ombudsman. The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by a decision of the National Assembly of 14 January 2016. This is intended to be the first item for tomorrow, Thursday, 28 January 2016. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importers: Krasimir Velchev and a group of MPs. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Animal Health Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Implementation between the Member States participating in the Cooperation Programme "INTERREG V-A Romania" Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement between the Kingdom of Belgium, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Estonia, Ireland, the Hellenic Republic, the Kingdom of Spain, the Republic of France, the Republic of Croatia, the Italian Republic, the Republic of Cyprus, the Republic of Latvia, the Republic of Lithuania, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Hungary, the Republic of Malta, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Poland, the Portuguese Republic, Romania, the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovak Republic, the Republic of Finland, the Kingdom of Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the European Investment Bank on loans to be granted by the European Investment Bank in support of investment projects in the African, Caribbean and Pacific States, as well as in the overseas countries and territories and of the Agreement on the administration of defaults between the countries referred to above, and the European Investment Bank for the benefit of the African, Caribbean and Pacific States. 9. A bill ratifying the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, as amended by the Protocol amending the Convention on Mutual Administrative Cooperation in Tax Matters, entered into force on 1 June 2011. 10. Draft Law on the ratification of the multilateral agreement between competent authorities on automatic exchange of information on financial accounts. 11. Draft law on ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on support for European Union projects between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the European Investment Bank. 12. A bill to ratify the Agreement between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Member States and partner countries on the implementation, monitoring and control system of the ESPON 2020 Cooperation Programme, including a Reference Document on the European Territorial Cooperation Group's liability mechanism for the ESPON. Importer of the Council of Ministers. 13. Parliamentary control under art. 91 "103" of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, in its usual day and hour Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: 122, against 6, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules has received a proposal from Mr. Volen Siderov, which proposes to include in our weekly program a Project for a decision to terminate the existing concession contracts for gold mining, precious and rare metals with an inch. No 454-02-15 of 27 October 2014. The proposal is inadmissible because in accordance with art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka "The draft decision was included in the National Assembly's weekly agenda and voted out. In the absence of an item, there is no way to enter the current weekly programme. The second proposal in the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules is from Ms Mariana Boyadjieva from the Parliamentary Group of.BSP left Bulgaria. She proposes to include the first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television, No 554-01-136 of 16 July 2015, submitted by Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. There are several pending bills in the National Assembly. Some of them do not have a report by the leading Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Boyadjieva, please develop your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, which we offer, provides for the introduction of new norms limiting the possibility of broadcasting programmes showing cruelty and violence. There are many acts within the Council of Europe which regulate the conditions for broadcasting such programmes. In most European countries, programmes that are connected and contain violence and cruelty are not subject to absolute ban, but could harm the physical and mental development and upbringing of young people cannot be broadcast in certain time zones. Our suggestion is that this should be the hours from 7:00 to 10:00 p.m. The draft provides for further specification of the requirements for participation in the Council for Electronic Media, proposing that the persons who are elected or appointed have no citizenship other than Bulgarian. A requirement is also introduced for the duration of the professional experience of members of the Electronic Media Council as a better guarantee of the effectiveness of their work, and for it to be not less than five years. In view of the more precise definition of the different types of advertising messages, the concept of advertising is introduced. The current legislation relating to the volume of commercial advertising is, in our view, imperfect. The provision introduced in 2013 by the legislator introduces a characteristic of the volume which does not correspond to the accepted international standards for measuring the sound of advertisements or the so-called thunderousness and the concepts used. The uniform standard for regulation of sound levels in advertising adopted under Recommendation R-128 of the European Radio and Television Council introduces the measurement of three main characteristics of the sound signal. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And, of course, our last offer...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Boyadjieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u4	...is linked to another limitation on children's shows.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u5	Time's up. You do not have the opportunity to comment on the substance, just to do the procedure, so you have had enough time for two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u6	So we are counting on you to appreciate the importance of the proposal for the Law and support its inclusion on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u7	Colleagues, we're voting. They voted 142 MPs: 45, against 24, abstention 73. The offer is not accepted. By Decision No 3020-NS of 21 January 2016, the Central Election Commission declared the elected Member of the National Assembly. The decision says this: ? RESPONSIBILITY? No 3020-НС, Sofia, 21 January 2016 on the announcement of Manoil Minchev Manev as MP in the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski With a letter in my letter. No. NS-02-1 of 21 January 2016 of the Central Election Commission was received a decision of the National Assembly of 20 January of the same year, with which on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria are suspended the powers of Dimitar Hristov Zhelev as MP from the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski, erected from the list of the political party GERB in the Forty-third National Assembly. In view of the above and on the basis of art. 57, para. 1, t. Art. 1, art. 247, t. Art. 6 and art. 302, para. 1 of the Election Code Central Election Commission HAS DECIDED Announcing as MP in the Forty-third National Assembly of the Twenty-Seven Election Region of Stara Zagorski, Manoil Minchev Manev from the list of the Political Party GERB. The Quaestors, please invite Mr. Manev to take an oath. Mr. Manev, come to the stand and repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u8	I swear in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria to respect the Constitution and the laws of the country and in all my actions to be guided by the interests of the people. I swore! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u9	Congratulations, Mr. Manev. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 20 to 26 January 2016: Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer Peter Slavov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Health. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. A bill to supplement the Social Security Code. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. State aid bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. A bill to amend the Law on Radio and Television. Importer "Valery Simeonov and group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Administration. Importer Svetlin Tanchev and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria and the Confirmation of Grants under the Programme of the National Tuberculosis Programme between the Global Fund for the Fight against AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Partnership between the Government of the Republic of Albania, the Government of the Republic of Armenia, the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Egypt, the Government of the Republic of Greece, the Government of the Republic of Hungary, the Government of the Republic of Latvia, the Government of the Republic of Lithuania, the Government of Romania, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the International Organisation of Francophonie on the National Francophone Initiative The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, in the framework of the French language programme in international On 21 January 2016 in the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 105, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria from the Council of Ministers received a Report on the implementation of the 2015 Action Plan with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union as of 31 December 2015, adopted by Decision No 26 of the Council of Ministers of 2016, the Action Plan 2016 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union adopted by Decision No 27 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By my letter, the report and the Action Plan have been sent to all the permanent committees by e-mail, to all the MPs and are available at the Library of Parliament. Mr. Kardzhaliev, now you can make your declaration. Mr. Kardzhaliev! Here you go, Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u10	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, my procedure is in relation to the General Law on the Protection of Classified Information Act, which was announced last week. I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to extend the deadline for proposals between the two readings by three weeks the maximum term, as the Bill is quite volumey.. includes four other bills. I think it really takes more time to make adequate proposals. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Slavov. 125 MPs voted: 117 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. We're listening now, Mr. Kardjaliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, to present you with a declaration in connection with January 27th "The International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims. On 1 November 2005, the UN General Assembly announced in its resolution the date 27 January as the International Holocaust Memorial Day. It calls on mankind to honor the victims of this genocide and encourages educational programs to prevent something similar further in the future of mankind's development. On this date in 1945, the concentration camp Auschwitz was released, where more than 1.5 million people died. These are mainly Jews, but also from other social groups - Roma, people with disabilities, political opponents, homosexuals. Today, progressive mankind, including us, deeply suffer for the victims of the Holocaust and pay tribute to their memory. Today, we strongly and categorically condemn some of the greatest sins committed by man's hand against the whole-built humanity, and that committed in such a way that the normal human mind cannot accept or imagine. This is an act of which mankind will be ashamed forever. He will also be ashamed of the Nuremberg racist laws adopted in 1935, which are the basis of this monstrous act, and also from the date 10 November 1938, the so-called "Cristal Night" when the colossal anti-Jewish defeat took place and more than 200 synagogues were destroyed and more than 30,000 people were taken to concentration camps. As MPs of the DPS Parliamentary Group, a party with great sensitivity to these topics, we strongly condemn the manifestations of anti-Semitism and all forms of xenophobia, including the rejection of elementary tolerance in society. Here is the place to celebrate proudly the contribution of the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state 72 years ago to the history of the human world and the values for saving over 48 thousand Jews in 1943. In an explicit declaration a few years ago, the Forty-first National Assembly called this act a remarkable event showing the humanity and tolerance of the Bulgarian people, as well as its will for justice. At the same time, we note with great concern the crisis of tolerance in recent years in our society, as well as the recently deployed xenophobic rhetoric and hysteria. We have repeatedly stressed that by destroying Hitlerism, hatred and hatred for different people have not been destroyed. The branding of all humanistic, vicious ideologies has the same democratic root and values. As every year, we are now using the case, with our usual sensitivity and inconclusiveness, to strongly condemn the worship and magnification of personalities associated with fascist ideology, and also events in their honor, accompanied by a demonstration of Nazi symbolism and a kind of modern neonacism. Such an event is the so-called "Lukov March" which is planned this year for 13 February. In our opinion, it will provoke manifestations of hatred and opposition in society, create a negative image of the state. This is a defamation of the bright memory of the millions of victims I spoke of just now, and also of the soldiers who died in World War II. Moreover, this is also an attempt to rewrite history. We appeal to Sofia Municipality and the mayor of Sofia to take advantage of the powers given by the Law. 12, para. 2 of the Law on meetings, rallies and demonstrations, and the Ordinance on Public Order and to take adequate measures to prevent such events. The Political Party has a consistent and principled position against all forms and manifestations of expression, promotion and justification of racial, religious and ethnic hatred, xenophobia and intolerance, including those leading to aggressive nationalism, ethnicism, discrimination and hostility to differences, including minorities, migrants, immigrants and others. From this point of view and from the perspective of the democratic state, which adopted the contemporary achievements of the world and European human thought and relevant legal norms, we appeal to the whole Bulgarian society for increased sensitivity to the described vices, hate speech and intolerance. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kardzhaliev. Colleagues, we're going to point one: SECOND READING THE LAWPROECTION FOR CHANGE OF THE CODE TO THE TRUDA. Mr. Ademov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u14	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a procedural proposal regarding the discussion of the amendments to the Labour Code in the Chamber to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Galab Donev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u15	Thank you. I shall put the proposal to the vote. They voted 116 MPs: 113 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u16	"Report on the Draft Law for Supplement to the Labour Code, No 654-01-2, submitted by Svetlana Angelova, Dimitar Bajraktarov, Grozdan Karadzhov, Mariana Todorova, Hasan Ademov, Stefan Kenov on 15 January 2016. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall also support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u17	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, and we will support § 1, but we need to be aware of what this is about. There are three million workers in Bulgaria. We're lowering the representation rate to 50 grand. This is about two or three percent, which is a very serious indicator of union representation and real union activity. Not for the activities of the trade union organization and its participation in the Health Insurance Fund, the National Insurance Institute and in all the nice tables that are organised on a European line. It's a very big problem that can't help but worry the public. There's no real union or union representation. Now we'll support it to be 50 grand. If they want to do it next time, 30 grand will do it. There will be such representations and their respective benefits, but they do not represent the real trade union interests of the workers in Bulgaria. They have moved out of private business, the norm of exploitation and the pressure is growing, only state authorities intervene to regulate these processes, and trade unions deal with seminars and other things, very often and with political activity. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u19	A line to Mr. Mikov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Bill and § 1 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: 123, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u20	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova, Mariana Todorova, Dimitar Tanev, Nastimir Ananiev, Claudia Gancheva, Dimitar Gechev and Ralitsa Todorova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev: "1." In § 2, Art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." There's at least: (a) 1000 members and not less than 30 000 employees in all members of the employers' organisation; or (b) 50,000 workers and employees employed under a contract of employment in all members of the employers' organisation, including those concluded under art. 114a contracts; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 1, t. 5 is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, "1." has at least: (a) 1500 members and not less than 30 000 employees in all members of the employers' organisation; or (b) 100 000 workers and employees employed under a contract of employment in all members of the employers' organisation;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u21	Statements? Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u22	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to motivate the proposals made by the Group of the Patriotic Front on amendment and supplement to art. 35 of the Labour Code........................................................................................... 1, t. 1. It's good that BSP's changing their mind and position. They said they would bring in an offer, but they didn't. I wonder why they didn't!? That's their problem. Dear colleagues, we are talking about representativeness of employers' organisations and national representation. However, this is about representativeness, first of all, of business, and it has different specifics and for this reason, precisely because of these specifics, organizations are created and associated, protecting the specifics of the defined business. In order to be able to have precisely this aspect of national representativeness, this means that we must enable these business organisations, first of all, once they have been associated, to have access to register with the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Moreover, since the concentration and attention of everyone now are only on the change of numbers in art. 35, it is good to know that an employers' organisation, in order to be national representative, must also have its minimum three-year history. I mean, she wasn't created yesterday so she could go and apply today and be created at least three years ago. We are proposing to reduce the number of members companies from 1500 to 1000 and 30 000 total number of workers precisely for this reason, so that they have access to more organisations and, most importantly, to hear the opinion and opinion of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation of these organizations. The second proposal is related to a reduction of the total number from 100,000 to 50,000 workers employed under a contract of employment for two main reasons. The first reason is that there is an effective decision of the Constitutional Court, which declares this text, which is still repeating itself, I do not know why you notice, this text in the letter "b" has already been declared unconstitutional once in 2012. Someone wants him to be declared unconstitutional again, announcing a total number of 100,000 workers. Anyone can read Decision No 7 of 2012 carefully and see that if we accept it in this form today, it means that it is practically already repealed. Therefore, we fine-tune the text in the letter "b" by reducing the total number of employees under a contract of employment from 100 000 to 50 000 and specify that the contracts concluded under art are not included. 114a, i.e. these are the day-to-day contracts, since this has not been cleared in the legislative norm. Once again, we leave these important things and important elements to be cleared in regulations on unclear criteria and on unknown methodologies for none of us. I appeal to you to accept these texts that we have proposed because they are the just ones. They are the texts that enable microbusiness, small business, medium business to have a greater representation, and most importantly, to comply with the requirements of art. 36 of the Labour Code for equal treatment of both employers' organizations and trade unions. As we agreed 50,000 to be members of employers, it is only right to respect the principle of equality that the total number of workers employed under a contract of employment will also be 50,000. It's the right to equality, an obligation that... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. ...it's the right thing to do. Just two sentences. I want...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u23	Thank you. You said you were done. It's been five minutes. So you say thank you. I'm done. And two more sentences?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u24	Let me finish my sentence. I'm guessing not once or twice you've given 30 seconds. [[noise and lines in the hall]] . If you want me to take after this every speech that drags on, procedure is fine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u25	You're getting one anyway, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u26	I just want to explain that. 5 which we want to cancel is also declared unconstitutional. The proposal is purely technical to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u27	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I'm putting the motion to a vote on... Mr. Bayraktarov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u28	Madam President, I am making a procedure for a split vote on the proposal that we have made.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u29	Mr. Bayraktarov, the unsupported proposals cannot be voted separately. You can make the procedure your proposal in the text of the importer to vote...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u30	Who are they unsupported by? Have they not been supported by the plenary?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u31	The proposals shall be made with regard to the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u32	Quote me the text of the Rules of Procedure that does not allow this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u33	Do you make a proposal for a separate vote on the Commission's proposals under the letter..................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u34	Not to the Commission, but to Mr. Dimitar Bajraktarov and Mr. Hristian Mitev these are not proposals from the Commission. These are proposals tabled between first and second readings in due order under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u35	I take it that one of your proposals is going to support you, and the other is not, and that's why you want us to vote them separately?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u36	Madam President, don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I want a separate vote and I'm doing a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u37	You must explain with arguments about the split vote. A separate vote is requested when there is an expectation that part of the proposal will be supported. Give me an argument, give me a motive!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u38	The motive is that part of the proposal that we have made has been supported and part of the other proposal has also been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u39	Conversely, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, this proposal was again made by Mr. Bajraktarov to be voted on. 1 letter (s) and (b) separately, etc. 2. None of Mr. Bajraktarov's proposals were supported by the majority of MPs who attended the meeting of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy. I think it is absolutely unfounded his proposal, his procedure for dividing the proposal made by Dimitar Bajraktarov and Christian Mitev for voting separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u41	I'm putting the procedure to the vote... [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] You want procedure on the same matter? I have to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u42	The procedure is before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u43	Do it in the manner of conduct before I cast the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u44	My fellow Members, yesterday in the Commission, I have requested this split vote and I declare [[Applause by MP Dimitar Bajraktarov]] that our parliamentary group supports Mr. Bajraktarov's proposal under the letter.................................................................................................... and does not support the proposal under.............................................................................................................................................. With these arguments yesterday, I asked for a separate vote and we voted in this way. Mrs. Angelova, who was in charge of the sitting, allowed this separate vote. Please allow us the parliamentary group to express its will at different points in a different way by voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u45	I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a separate vote on the proposal of Mr. Bajraktarov and Mr. Hristian Mitev in the letter of. 1 and point (b) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 2 of their proposal. They voted 142 MPs: 42, against 38, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of Mr. Bayraktarov and Mr. Mitev as a whole, not supported by the Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 29, against 31, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 2 of the Bill. They voted 124 MPs: 46, against 1, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. Is there going to be a re-election?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u46	The Commission's proposal must be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u47	We voted on the Commission's proposal. [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova wants the floor.]] You want a re-vote? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u48	Mrs. Tsacheva, I see you're surprised by this decision, too. We want a re-vote for the following reasons, colleagues. I have a question for the following colleagues: Svetlana Angelova, Mariana Todorova, Dimitar Tanev...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u49	There's no such procedure! There is no such procedure, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u50	What are you guys doing? In 48 hours, three times you change your position, you submit a proposal for 50 thousand, after 24 hours the same people submit a proposal for 30 thousand...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u51	Mrs. Ninova, I've made you a re-vote procedure. You don't have a chance to debate. We're not in debate mode!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u52	...and after less than 24 you reject your own second proposal and accept a third proposal? I have the answer to that... [[The National Representative Cornelia Nino speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u53	I made you a note, Mrs. Ninova, consider it! I'm putting this text into rewording. They voted 127 MPs: 46, against 2, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. Now I must put the text of the importer to the vote. I shall put to the vote § 2 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u54	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u55	I'll give you procedure and manner of conduct. We're voting now. You say too late, I've launched the voting procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u56	It's before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u57	Vote 128 MPs: 94, against 29, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. Previously on negative vote, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u58	My fellow Members, I voted against it because I strongly say that this is not the way it is done. In both form and content of what you did, that's not how you do it! On this extremely important issue, the representation of the Trilateral Council, the government, has no position, first. At the last moment a proposal is submitted by a group of MPs, after 24 hours this proposal is changed by the same group of MPs from GERB and the Reformers. In less than 24 hours and voting in the Commission, it changes again for the third time in 48 hours. This means one thing: you do not look at this issue in principle, your decisions are dictated by conjunctural meetings and conversations. I do not comment on them, I do not comment on the number of employees in the companies. I also comment on the way in which you do it and the style of management, which is characterized by the Bulgarian business, which is why we are debating this issue today, in the following way: The pathological activity and the discrepancy of many of the MPs results in many negative phenomena in the economic space and in our work. It should be stopped with the appearances of politicians who constantly have some exotic intentions and change them constantly. This is an assessment of the business from a report at the end of 2015. Unfortunately, this assessment falls as a stain on the entire parliament and on Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Because when an MP within 48 hours three times shifts his position on the same question and it is fundamentally opposite, the result is that we here do not have, that is to say you [[noise and lines to the right]] You don't have your own opinion, and you make a decision under dictation and lobbying interests. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u59	Second negative vote? Mr. Gokov. [[Heckling]] When the facts speak... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it, firstly, because my thesis from speaking at the first vote is that there will be no such problems and that colleagues cannot navigate the problem when a bill is introduced at the last moment and when people do not have enough information and do not have enough time to conduct the consultations and make the decisions, so they change their opinions at 48 hours three times. The importers have made a turn, I say, the importer is because I withdrew my signature before you remind me, Madam President. So you shouldn't act like this when you pass laws. My second motive, for which I voted against this proposal, is that whatever we speak, whatever arguments we draw from the stand, we closed the possibility that small companies, single traders have serious representativeness in triparty cooperation. As much as we talk about this being possible when they join the larger organizations and by removing this condition for at least ten workers in the requirement of representativeness, we did not make their representation better in the triparty council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u61	Thank you. Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! We are witnessing a legal absurdity once again, created by the National Assembly, admitted by the President of the National Assembly. We have a text that was originally submitted by an importer, the same importer changes the text, then does not withdraw this change, and I ask: the second time by whose importer, what did we vote on? In my opinion, the normal thing, when it happens, is when an importer changes his own text and does not withdraw it as a change and does not accept what is voted on, his first proposal is not voted, but remains the current norm, which should be amended at the moment. I beg you very much, Madam President, let us comply with the laws and regulations of the state. [[GERB noise and lines]] because otherwise we continue to show people that the law is some kind of necessity and we act as appropriate and not by law. [[Applause from BSP LB. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u63	Mr. Ermenkov, you were able to cheer me up this morning. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] You were able to cheer me up this morning with that interpretation you made. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] In any case, where an importer in a single bill has a paragraph, in this case it is § 2, and any exotic proposals are rejected by a vote by the National Assembly, the text of the importer should be put to the vote. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] I'll explain further in the towers if you wish, I have no more opportunity. Paragraph 3, he is in the Final Provision. [[Noise and lines.]] I've given the floor to § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u64	'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u65	Paragraph 3 statements? [[Replication by the National Representative Dimitar Bajraktarov: "Procedure."]] Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u66	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct and, in particular, to make a remark regarding the qualifications that you have just spoken. No one gives you the right to qualify, to define proposals of Members of the National Assembly as "exotic" and the like. You are not the one to qualify the legislative activity of any Member of the National Assembly in this Chamber. People have worked hard, they have used experts, they have done the work for which they have been sent by the Bulgarian voters, and you have no right to qualify. That is why I urge you to offer your apology publicly from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u67	You're right, Mr. Bayraktarov. I publicly apologize for my qualifications, but I did not find a better word for three different editorials than the same MPs within half a page. I apologize to you. Paragraph 3, i.e. Final provision, reported, are there any proposals on it? Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal for the name of the division: the Final provision and § 3 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 113 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 12. The proposal is adopted, with this at second reading and the Draft Law amending the Labour Code. Let's continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROMOTIONS In the second vote are adopted members up to 59 including, the reporting of art. 60 on page 117 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u68	Article 60 "Annuality for the exercise of the professional activity'. There has been a proposal from the MP Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 60 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 the words shall be deleted; 2. In para. 2 words may be required and shall be replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from the People's Exposition Metodi Andreev in Section II "Selection criteria" in the second subtitle the word "forgotten" is replaced by "governance." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 60: "Annuality for the exercise of the professional activity Art. 60. (1) Where applicable, contracting entities shall have the right to require applicants or participants to be entered in the Trade Register and/or in a relevant professional register and for foreign persons in similar registers under the legislation of the Member State in which they are established. (2) In the procedures for the award of public service contracts where, for the performance of the service concerned, under the law of the State in which the applicant or participant is established, a specific authorisation or membership of a particular organisation is required, the contracting entity may require it to demonstrate the existence of such authorisation or membership.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u69	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Last time we got to art. 59, there was the same proposal made by me to replace it with................................................. to replace it with................................................................ At that time we voted.. capacity................................................................................................ Now I am formulating a purely editorial proposal in this second sub-title...................................................................................................... to exercise the professional activity.............................................................................................................................................. This is one of my purely editorial proposals. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 1 has the following text: "Where applicable, contracting entities shall be entitled to require applicants or participants to be registered in the Trade Register and/or in a relevant professional register.' They have the right to... to not demand it, I read it that way. Isn't it better to sound purely editorial as follows: With the expression "they have the right to demand', it may be so that the contracting authority does not ask the specific person to prove that a member of the professional chamber concerned or is a member of the relevant register. So it is also not bad to discuss this as an editorial proposal that I am now making. It was not done in the order prescribed. But the first thing I said about the subtitle, I think it's wise to write down the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u71	- What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the form of a replica, I will support Mr. Andreev's editorial proposal in the title. In real terms, Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European On the occasion of the next editorial proposal in para. 1 of art. 60, Mr. Andreev, the requirement is for the directive to have such an opportunity, as a number of professional registers can be checked, as well as the data in the Commercial Register, and there is no additional burden on the business if the contracting authority decides to check the information in the Commercial Register or in any other professional register, the text is recorded as follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u73	Any other lines? I won't. For the back, Mr. Andreev? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 6, against 41, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev, which is also not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 24, Against 9, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall vote on the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune in art. 60, to be added to the title after...................................................................................................................... 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I shall put to a vote what has been done from the stand, a proposal in art. 60, para. 1 in the expression: "Where applicable, contracting entities shall have the right to refuse the words................................................................................................................. In case you don't withdraw it, Mr. Andreev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u74	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u75	I put this proposal to the vote to the effect that the expression is entitled to do so. They voted 84 MPs: for 6, against 11, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 60, edited by the Commission together with the adopted proposal for the title after the word.................................................................................................................. Vote 84 MPs: 73, none, abstention 11. Article 60 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u76	Article 61 "Instructional and financial situation'. Proposal by the National Representative Metodi Andreyev in art. 61, para. 3 the number ssssssssssssssssss. 3 is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments shall be made: (a) A new para shall be created. 2 with the following text: The contracting authorities may set requirements for the financial and economic situation of candidates and participants only if a financial resource is needed for the performance of the contract to provide materials, supplies, salary funds and related taxes and social security, and others. The existence of a basis for setting requirements is justified in a decision to initiate the procedure. (b) para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it, the words "more than twice' shall be replaced by "50 per cent'; (c) para. 3 becomes para. 4; (d) para. 4 and 5 become respectively. 5 and 6 and in them the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for implementing Regulation (e) para. 6 and 7 become respectively. Seven and eight. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 61: Economic and financial situation Art. 61. (1) As regards the economic and financial situation of candidates or participants, contracting entities may set one or more of the following requirements: 1. to have achieved a minimum total turnover, including a minimum turnover in the area covered by the contract calculated on the basis of the annual turnover; 2. to have insurance with a cover of professional liability corresponding to the volume and nature of the order or resulting from a regulatory act; 3. have achieved a positive ratio between certain assets and liabilities. (2) The minimum total turnover required by contracting entities under para. 1, t. 1 shall be consistent with the value, volume and duration of the contract and shall not exceed the two-fold amount of its estimated value, unless justified by the nature of the works, services or supplies. In the event that the contracting authority requires a turnover exceeding the maximum permissible turnover, it shall justify this in the notice. (3) Where an order is divided into lots, the requirement under para. 2 shall apply to each individual item. (4) When an internal competitive choice is held on the basis of a framework agreement, the condition under para. 2 shall apply to the estimated value of the award concerned, and if it cannot be determined on the basis of the estimated value of the framework agreement. (5) In the case of dynamic purchasing systems, the condition under para. 2 shall apply to the expected maximum amount of specific contracts awarded under this system. (6) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 The contracting entity shall indicate in the procurement documents the way in which the criterion is established and calculated in accordance with the methodology laid down in the Rules for Implementation of the Law. Under art. 62 "Documents for proof of economic and financial situation" "A proposal from the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 62 para. 2 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: ? Documents for proof of economic and financial situation Art. 62. (1) In order to demonstrate the economic and financial situation of candidates or participants, one or more of the following documents shall be submitted in relation to the requirements set out: 1. certificates from banks; 2. evidence of the existence of insurance "Professional liability" 3. annual financial statements or components thereof where their publication is required; 4. a reference to the total turnover and/or turnover in the field covered by the contract. (2) Where, for good reason, a candidate or participant is unable to submit the documents requested by the contracting authority, it may prove its economic and financial situation by means of any other document which the contracting authority considers appropriate. (3) The details of the turnover under para. 1, t. 4 may cover at most the last three completed financial years, depending on the date on which the applicant or participant was established or started its activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u77	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Popov. After him Mr. Grozdan Karadzhov and Mr. Metodi Andreyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 61, para. 1 I have an editorial proposal to make the text sound as follows: In terms of the economic and financial situation of candidates or participants, contracting entities should set the following requirements:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u79	In the text, it is possible to
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u80	No, I'm suggesting they're going to post.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u81	Do you want to replace it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u82	The following requirements are to be laid down: Please, the words can drop, one or more of the words. Let the contracting authority demand that this is my proposal that all performers meet the following requirements. In respect of art. 62, para. 2, I think the subparagraph should be dropped. I do not see in what other way, when the applicant cannot present the documents requested by the contracting authority for any reason, firstly, we do not know what those reasons are, secondly. Here are explicitly listed: bank certificates, evidence of insurance, professional liability, annual financial statements, total turnover reference. Each candidate should be able to submit these documents, this evidence. The opposite would be for example to go to witness statements, which is not serious in such a Law, especially when it comes to a major material interest in connection with a public procurement. I therefore fully support the proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs para. 2 of art. 62 to drop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u83	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Karadjov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I am trying to draw your attention to the huge corruption potential that our so presented new but new in quotes the Public Procurement Bill offers us. It is possible that the Law will work in established democracies, with opportunities for self-control of the guild organizations, but so scheduled, I think on several occasions we have clearly justified and yet the National Assembly has adopted texts that will yet flood the country with very bad corruption practice. To your attention is the next similar text. I ask you to listen calmly and reflect, because in no way would we violate the purpose of this Law, for which we are actually being called upon by the directives that we transpose. Once again, I pay attention: we transpose them, that is, we move the purpose with which this Law is created and the purpose of the directive itself. One of the goals, of course, is to have efficiency of the Law, but most of all it provides procedures of transparency and not develop an environment of corruption. In fact, the objective of public procurement laws everywhere in the developed democracies of the world is this: to rule out the possibility that contracting entities by any of their own subjective notions, say, financial beliefs, choose who the candidate is. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 2 The text says the following verbatim: Where, for good reason, a candidate or participant is unable to provide the documents requested by the contracting authority to prove its economic and financial situation, it may do so with any other document that the contracting authority considers appropriate. Dear colleagues, the other document that the contracting authority considers appropriate is not even the word "foundable" or "legal" or to be justified by any other legislation! It's about the right one. The word is appropriate! Colleague lawyers, who are in this Chamber, the word "suitable" in the Public Procurement Act not only has no place, it is another open door that the administration is pushing you to vote here today. Colleagues, we are not voting on the translation of a directive. If we were machines for voting on translations of European directives, excuse me, but this would not be called the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you once again: look at these words and let the subparagraph be dismissed. This will not harm the Law, but will close a loophole of administration, and perhaps not just the administration's door to corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Andreev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is in art. 61, para. 3 the number..3. to be replaced by.5.................................................................................................................. What's behind this replacement? In general, when we are in elections, we always like to talk very much about the development of medium and small businesses. In fact, many of our campaigns are based on this particular platform. However, when it comes time to vote on real texts, I do not know why in these texts there is always strong corporate influence of corporations, which have been exhausting the Bulgarian economy for many years. What's the point of this text? This Law is mainly applied in the so-called construction sector. Simply put, to prove a firm's turnover for the past three years, that means we limit the companies involved in construction to 5-6. Because it is no secret that in these years a oligarchic structure has actually formed from construction companies that take almost all construction contracts in Bulgaria in a different form of combination. What is the problem if we give other companies that have not had the chance in this construction crisis in recent years to have such happiness, to have such protection, but to have had business the previous two years, that is, in the past five years? Why not do in the last five years to look for turnover and prove turnover of companies so that both smaller and smaller companies can appear on the relevant public procurement contracts? Otherwise, in the construction industry, there are five or six. You all know them, and most of all in recent years, it has occupied the construction industry entirely one of these five or six. This request is related to the fact that small and medium-sized companies in the construction industry can also prove speed. Moreover, this proposal can be seen as entering into combat with art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 sub-paragraph (s), where it is said that five years ago the technical fitness and condition of the companies must be demonstrated. Why do we want five years for technicality, and when it comes time to prove turnover, we only want three? This only means that we want these companies, which in these last three years have benefited from the protection of certain political forces, to be able to reaffirm their dominant position on the market through this Law. Therefore, I suggest that the figure 61, para. 3 there will be no clash with art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 sub-paragraph (s) This is exactly the little loophole that we should leave to small and medium business. I call on you to make this change. I don't know how it is in Europe, but in Bulgaria it isn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u87	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? I won't. For speech there is the word of the people representative Dimitar Bajraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'm going to ask you today to really vote on your conscience as you swore. Especially when it comes to art. Art. 61, Art. 62, and to be even more specific about the two second paragraphs. Yesterday, some of the parliamentary groups came out with declarations that they would fight corruption, that anti-corruption laws would be passed. What anti-corruption laws, colleagues, when with art. 61, para. 2 opens the door of corruption and with art. 62, para. 2 is the practical corruption deal being carried out?! The practice indicates not one or two such cases that have been reformed in these two paragraphs. Case of type: we are making a contract for a car in which the elements are placed, that the steering wheel should be mahogany, the doors should be sewn with ivory, i.e. made criteria for a public contract, from which it is already clear who will win the order. Not one and two are these examples. Now this thing is repeated in the same way as starting with the text of para. 2 of art. 61 for turnover requirements and, notice, at some point this turnover may be increased at the discretion of the contracting entity. What are we talking about? What are we talking about, besides bringing in and legitimizing corruption through this Law? I'm tired of explaining when we started from art. 13 so far how many texts practically stimulate corruption practice in Bulgaria. And how will we fight tomorrow, whatever law we pass, when the texts legitimize corruption? As soon as we get back to art. 62, para. 2, Tell me by what criteria can a contracting entity consider the financial situation of a participant appropriate? By what criteria? By the criteria relating to the respective incentive, by the criteria that practically tell the honest, respectable businessman: you have no chance, because we have already decided everything. In other words, those who award and those who are supposedly honest participants and candidates for the award of the contract. Do I have to explain to you that most of these public contracts, pay attention, are not made by large companies, but by companies under the Law on Obligations and Contracts? This was the so-called "consortium" which built the highway "Trakiya" and enslaved over 300 honest and honest companies that went bankrupt because there was no one else to look for the claims. And they planted trees with the fate of bankrupt companies along the protégé of the Trakiya highway. And now you want us to repeat this thing with these two terms? In particular, the two second paragraphs. That's why I'm proposing, Mr. Chairman, in art. 61, para. 2 to be dropped and in art. 62, para. Two down. I hope that this time the MPs will not vote on the party order, but on conscience, because the Bulgarian people have sent them here to vote on conscience.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Bayraktarov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We, with our colleagues from the Reformation Block, have made a proposal that I think is particularly important and which has been missed. It is also under the directive, but somehow it is dropped in the text, interesting why, and it is quite logical. Our proposal is to add it to the text itself by providing for the obligation for contracting entities to comply with the turnover requirements for the contract, i.e. not to require turnover if the performance of the contract does not require financial resources. That makes perfect sense. This is under a directive and I cannot understand why it has been omitted from legislation since we are following the directives and this is one of the main arguments that we are actually implementing the directives, and this is precisely the requirement of the directive that has been omitted. But unlike that in para. 2 One non-requirement from the directive. The reduction of the threshold for turnover has entered inside, which is not a requirement of the directive. I hope you will support our proposal, as it is under Directive and it is quite logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u91	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u92	In relation to what we are discussing here, I would like, in the form of a reply, to draw attention to the text that the Commission will propose to us in a moment to vote for art. 61. There in al. 1, t. 1 Finally, I propose to sign up for the last five years. That way things will get in good shape. In para. 1 of art. 61, p. 1 to end with the last five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u93	We get it. Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Will you use the hole because it wasn't basically a line? The Secretary-General of the Public Procurement Agency has expressed a desire to take the matter into consideration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u94	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention are texts which correspond entirely to the applicable directive: they are absolutely in line with the current Public Procurement Act, in their same version. Since several proposals have been made, I will try briefly to respond consistently. First of all, the proposal under art. 61, para. 2 is absolutely identical with the text existing in this Law. So far, in our practice, we have not identified any problems with the application of this norm. In addition, you should bear in mind that this norm is fully targeted in the interests of public procurement participants, not contracting entities. In this case, we are talking about hypotheses where, say, a foreign participant cannot present a document under the Bulgarian legislation, which has a different name or content, such as a profit and loss account. This norm enables him to submit a document that would respond to the needs of the contracting authority in case he accepts it. Whether it accepts it depends on whether it contains the information that confirms the fitness of the participant or not. The need for the contracting authority to assess what this document is and whether it is fit arises from the fact that the Law cannot cover all cases. That is to say, the need for operational autonomy from the point of view of the contracting authority must, in any event, be carried out to some extent in the Law. Remember that any action or omission of the contracting authority is subject to appeal. So any assessment that leads him to the wrong conclusion, of course, can then be subjected to independent arbitration. So the contracting authority must act legally in order to bring the order to an end. With regard to turnover, which is part of proving the so-called economic and financial situation of economic operators, please note that even in the current Financial and Economic Situation Act and technical capabilities and qualifications are two different aspects of public procurement. Imperatively, the directives introduce the requirement for one to apply a three-year period and for the other a period of time. What we need to bear in mind is that contracting entities cannot randomly blow the required turnover because a threshold of twice the estimated value of the contract is introduced in the Law. So a contracting entity, whatever it does, the greatest requirement it can make, is for at least three years before that, to achieve a certain turnover at least twice, which is completely in order of things. Moreover, the practice of public procurement imposes the view that the increase in time limits is actually problematic and not their reduction. That is, so far what we are seeing is that attempts to increase the periods for proving economic, financial and technical opportunities and qualifications lead to problems, not reduction. That is precisely why the legislator, the European normmaker, has tried to limit these levels to three years and to twice the turnover. Viewed in their aggregate, they should actually give you the sense of a balanced setting of these requirements when public procurement is conducted. And so far, these texts have been working. At the moment we even have a reduction in the burden, because it was up to three times, it is now up to twice, given that this Law offers easier projects than the current Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u95	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u96	Excuse me, I didn't answer the last question about the availability of financial resources. Under the directives, two universal means of measuring the economic and financial situation have been introduced. One is turnover and the other is the ratio between assets and liabilities, which, translated into a simpler language, means liquidity demand. The introduction of a simple indicator of only seeking financial expression, i.e. available means, poses serious dangers. It was conducted in the current Act and led to some problems. The problem is that if you only explore the financial resources of an enterprise without examining its obligations, you will not actually get a real idea of what its capabilities are. Because if against a financial resource of 100 units are liabilities of 200 units, it is obvious that this enterprise will not be able to meet the needs of the order. That is why the Law, in full compliance with the directives, can assure you, is a proposed option in which the ratio of assets and liabilities is examined. The ratio of assets and liabilities gives you liquidity and liquidity shows how much money actually available exceeds the required liabilities, generally speaking. Since there are numerous, perhaps dozens in economic practice of using liquidity, not to mention hundreds of indicators, it is envisaged that the Rules of the Law should propose that those liquidity research mechanisms which contracting entities can use and which orders to apply them should be proposed. Finally, there was a question that was necessarily about setting the requirements for the financial and economic situation. In the context of the aim of reducing the administrative burden, contracting entities should be allowed to do so on routine orders or where they do not need to pressure companies to demonstrate certain requirements on specific indicators, not to do so so, so that the process runs faster and easier. I think I've run out of the subject in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u97	Thank you. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u98	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! I will support the import text, as in art. 61, para. 2, because situations are possible in which the contracting authority is forced to request more serious financial provision than the possible contractor. These are situations for sites that can be met in different financial years with mixed funding. A contracting entity may guarantee the payment of one project where it is normally on its own resources. Very often, however, large sites have mixed funding. e.g. municipal and state, and the contracting authority does not know in the relevant financial year whether it will receive the corresponding share of the state. Then the contractor company takes the financial burden on the implementation of the site. In such a case, it is logical for the contracting entity to require more serious financial stability than this company, because otherwise it comes to unpleasant collisions, termination of construction, dozens of stops and so on. However, with regard to art. 62, p. 2 I really think that we should drop para. 2 in this text because it is by no means in the direction of objectifying subjective factors. I give a very general text that the contracting authority can interpret in a manner that it chooses. There we have to be absolutely strict now, because the Public Procurement Act is actually the most important corruption law. Everything else we vote on is not known whether it will work, but it is the rules governing how public funds are spent. I urge you to be very careful. I'm appealing to art. 62, para. Two down.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 86 MPs: 24, against 4, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 92 MPs: 21, Against 2, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We have a re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u100	Mr. President, everyone failed to vote, especially my colleague Mirchev, who entered last, so let us not forget that the proposal is related to a requirement under a directive which has been missed in the Law. I call on colleagues, especially from GERB, to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. For my colleague Mirchev and colleagues from GERB - a re-vote, and for everyone else, of course. Vote 95 MPs: 25, against 2, abstention 68. We move on to the proposals made by the parliamentary platform. First, I put to the vote Mr. Bayraktarov's proposal for dropping out in art. 61, para. 2. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: 17 against 14, abstention 62. I put to the vote the editorial proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov in art. 61, para. 1 the word can be replaced by one or more of the following requirements. In fact, it can be replaced Is that right, Mr. Popov? [[Heckling]] Instead, we can put it on and move on. The following requirements are to be set: One or more of the parties should also drop out, the entity should set out the following requirements. The applicant shall acquire this type, according to Mr. Popov's proposal. We are voting on Mr. Popov's proposal. They voted 91 MPs: 18, against 29, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made in the form of a replica by the National Representative Metodi Andreev in art. 61, para. 1, t. 1 to end with the last five years and it is: on the basis of the annual turnovers for the last five years. That's what Mr. Andreev suggests. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 25, against 5, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. And now I am voting on the text of the importer, which is supported by the Commission and edited by the same for art. 61. Vote art. 61 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 9. Article 61 of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: 19 against 11, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. The same proposal was made by the parliamentary tribune by the national representative Philip Popov. Because it is not accepted, I will not put it to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, supported by the Commission and edited by it, to art. 62. Vote art. 62 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 80 against 7, abstention 9. Article 62 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u102	Under art. 63 a proposal has been made by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1 the following changes are proposed: 1. the word "may" is dropped at the beginning of the sentence; 2. at the end of the sentence of the letter........................................................................................................ is added....................... is added....................................... is.................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the proposals of Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs and Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 63: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the European Art. 63. (1) The contracting authority may lay down criteria on the basis of which it shall establish that applicants or participants have the necessary human and technical resources and experience to perform the contract in compliance with an appropriate quality standard. The contracting authority may require the applicant or participant to: 1. to have completed activities with an object and volume identical or similar to those of the order, at most for the latter: (a) 5 years from the date of submission of the application or of the tender for construction; (b) three years from the date of submission of the application or of the offer for supplies and services; 2. have the required number of technical persons and/or organisations included or not in the applicant's or participant's structure, including those responsible for quality control, and in the case of public works contracts, the persons to carry out the construction; 3. have the necessary technical means and facilities for quality assurance, including research and research, and implement certain quality assurance measures; 4. have a system for managing and tracking supplies that will be applied in the performance of the contract; 5. have staff and/or management of a particular professional competence for the performance of the contract if the requirement is not used as an indicator for evaluation of tenders; 6. apply certain environmental measures in the performance of the contract; 7. provide information on the average annual number of staff and the number of members of the management staff for the last three years; 8. have the tools, facilities and technical equipment necessary for the performance of the order; 9. the goods shall be certified by accredited quality control bodies certifying their compliance with those specifications or standards; 10. apply quality management systems, including those for access to disabled persons; 11. apply environmental protection systems or standards. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 where the nature of the contract so requires, contracting entities may determine a period longer than that specified. (3) Where the subject-matter of the contract is complex or special purpose, the contracting authority may verify the technical capabilities of the applicant or participant and, where appropriate, testing and testing equipment and quality assurance capabilities. The contracting authority may also request this from a competent authority of the country in which the applicant or participant is established if that authority agrees to carry out a verification on behalf of the contracting entity. (4) In procurement procedures requiring installation or installation works, for the provision of services or for the execution of works, contracting entities may lay down requirements for candidates or participants for their skills and experience to provide the service or to carry out the installation or construction works. (5) In the cases under para. 4 in the context of the procedure, the contracting authority may also provide that activities of particular importance are to be carried out directly by the participant himself, respectively, by a participant in the merger. (6) As a selection criterion, conditions or requirements relating to the execution of only public contracts or to the implementation of specified programmes or projects, or to the specification of sources of funding, or to a certain number of contracts executed with a specific indication of their subject-matter, may not be included as a selection criterion. Article 64 Proposal by Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 64. 2 and para. 7 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs supported by the Commission. Proposal by Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments shall be made: (a) A new para shall be created. 2 with the following text: The applicant or participants should demonstrate that they will meet the requirements for technical or professional capabilities at the alleged date of conclusion of the contract awarded by a public procurement. (b) para. 2 " 4" became respectively. 3 ssssssssssss, 5sssssssssss, 3sssssssss, (c) para. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced by............................................................................................................ 4 and 5 (d) para. 6 and 7 become respectively. 7 and 8; (e) para. 8 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 64: "Instruction" Art. 64. (1) One or more of the following documents and evidence shall be provided to demonstrate the technical and professional capabilities of applicants or participants in relation to the requirements set out: 1. a list of the construction, identical or similar to the subject-matter of the contract, accompanied by certificates of good performance, which contain the value, the date on which the execution, place, type and volume has been completed, and whether it is fulfilled in accordance with the regulatory requirements; 2. a list of supplies or services which are identical or similar to the subject-matter of the contract with an indication of the values, dates and recipients, together with proof of the delivery or service carried out; 3. a list of technical persons and/or organisations included or not in the applicant's or participant's structure, including those responsible for quality control, and in the case of public works contracts, the persons to carry out the construction; 4. a list of technical means and facilities for quality assurance, including research and research, as well as a description of the measures used by the applicant or participant to ensure quality assurance; 5. a description of the system of management and tracking of supplies; 6. a list of the staff to perform the contract and/or of the members of the management staff who will be responsible for the performance in which the professional competence of the persons is indicated; 7. a description of the environmental protection measures and, where applicable, an indication of the standards or standards to be applied; 8. a declaration of the average annual number of staff and the number of members of the management staff for the last three years; 9. a declaration of the instruments, facilities and technical equipment to be used for the performance of the contract; 10. Certificates issued by accredited persons for quality control certifying the conformity of goods with the relevant specifications or standards. (2) The contracting authority may not accept any evidence of technical and professional abilities provided where it arises from a person having an interest which may result in a benefit within the meaning of art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest. (3) Where the contracting entity requires the presentation of certificates certifying the compliance of the applicant or participant with quality management standards, including those for the access of disabled persons, the contracting entity shall specify the quality management systems by means of the corresponding series of European standards. (4) In the event that the contracting entity requires the presentation of certificates certifying the compliance of the applicant or participant with certain environmental protection systems or standards, it shall specify the environmental and audit scheme of the European Union (EMAS) or environmental standards through the relevant European or international standards. The contracting authority shall also be entitled to refer to other environmental management systems recognised in accordance with art. 45 of Regulation (EC) 1221/2009 on the voluntary participation of organisations in the Community eco-management and audit scheme (EMAS) and repealing Regulation (EC) No 761/2001 and Commission Decisions 2001/681/EC and 2006/193/EC (OB, L 342, 22.12.2009) or other environmental management standards based on the relevant European or international standards of accredited bodies. (5) The certificates under para. 3 and 4 must be issued by independent persons who are accredited according to the relevant series of European standards by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" or by another national accreditation body, which is a party to the multilateral agreement on mutual recognition of the European accreditation organisation, for the relevant area or to meet the recognition requirements under art. 5a, para. 2 of the Law on National Accreditation of Conformity Assessment Bodies. (6) The procuring entity shall accept equivalent certificates issued by bodies established in other Member States. (7) The contracting authority shall also accept other evidence of equivalent quality assurance or environmental protection measures where a candidate or participant has not had access to such certificates or has not been able to obtain them within the relevant time limits for reasons beyond its control. (8) In the cases under para. 7 the applicant or participant shall be able to demonstrate that the proposed measures are equivalent to those required.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u103	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. To make a speech there is the national representative Philip Popov, after him "The People's Representative Metodi Andreev."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll make some editorial suggestions. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 63, para. 1: The Adventurer can define the criteria... The words can be dropped. And in the last sentence: "The Entrepreneur may require from the applicant or the participant...................................................................................................... the applicant............................................................................................................................................... In practice, dropping this opportunity, which has been granted to the contracting entity, will guarantee quality and temporary implementation, not corruption schemes with some hollow companies that cannot prove either technical resources or human resources. Ah, don't give yourself a God, a law enforcement company there, you know, it doesn't have its own property, rights and obligations holders are the partners themselves. There is even no solidarity responsibility because it is not regulated in art. 357 "366" of the DPA, and by law it must be explicitly governed by law or contract. If it is not arranged, we move on to an absolutely hollow structure which, in the event of failure to fulfil its obligations, cannot be held accountable in practice. Next,....... in para........................................................................................ 3 where the subject-matter of a public contract is complex or special purpose, it is recorded "The contractor The words can also be dismissed and sound: "The Entrepreneur checks the technical capabilities. Let's give him that commitment. In the last sentence, after the participant, there should be a point. If this authority agrees to carry out a check on behalf of the contracting authority to be filed after the participant to put a point. It is unnecessary to extend the Law, especially para. 3 "Whether or not the authority of another State can carry out this inspection. It doesn't depend on our Law or what we've written in it. If he cannot carry out such an inspection, then the contractor should think about how to prove his ability to execute the relevant order. Under art. 64, para. 2 "I absolutely agree that para. Two needs to be dropped. Here it is written: "Who can lead to a benefit within the meaning of art. 2, para. 3 of the Law on the Establishment and Prevention of Conflict of Interest. In practice, we need to have a proven conflict of interest here, not a hypothetical opportunity leading to a benefit within the meaning. In practice, this will be a legal option for the strainer and for choosing the right companies from the contracting entity. I agree that it should be dismissed. 7. I'm making an offer to get rid of Al. 8. It is absurd here to seek other evidence of equivalent quality assurance measures. In practice, if you vote to drop para. 7, para. 8 becomes absolutely unnecessary and meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u105	Does that mean that if you vote al. 7 do not fail, you will withdraw the proposal for para. Eight?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u106	I'm making an offer and I'm making an offer. 8 to be dropped, no matter what.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u107	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament because Mr. Popov proposes in art. 2 to remove the word......................................................................................................... Mr. Popov suggests that we should oblige the contracting authority, no matter what the order is, to make all orders that are listed below.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u109	And you disagree with him.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u110	That's to the detriment. The law is generally made to seek some balance. I wanted to draw attention to all my fellow Members that the Law generally eases procedures. That's the idea of the directive we're transponin'. From now on, all the complicated things about dropping members are pointless, I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u111	A hole? No. For a statement there is the word Grozdan Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I understand the desire not to debate the proposals from MPs not supported by the Commission. I understand that you are voting machinely, but it is still nice to hear these arguments, because in the end it will weigh on our conscience tomorrow. For art. I will not repeat what my colleague said before me. I understand that our proposals here are a match. When in art. 64, para. 1 You have an imperative norm for what documents prove technical and professional competence, it is normal to assume that they will be respected absolutely. This is the purpose of any law.. to give as clear and precise frameworks in which entities, whether law enforcement bodies, or contracting entities or contractors, are to move rather than apply their own creativity to the matter. Very often this work in our country is related to money exchange. This is not for a reason the scourge for Bulgaria, which we are known for in every report of the European Commission. This is the failure of our judicial system to face the challenges it faces. In para. The applicant may not accept a given evidence of technical and professional abilities when it arises from a person who has an interest which may lead to a benefit.... within the meaning of the Law establishing and Preventing the Conflict of Interest. Try to imagine it in a situation of life. You have a certificate of completion of some kind of course. With him you are one of the candidate performers still, which proves your abilities. The contracting authority on its own initiative will be able to interpret this document, to count it invalid by entering into the powers of another body for which there is a special law and where it is very clear in the special law which authorities apply under this law. Contracting entities, public or sectoral, there are not recorded. In this Law you are trying to outdo the age-old rule, from Roman law, and to make a special law of special. Well, there is no such thing in Bulgarian law. I have listened to your arguments here, but unfortunately the Rules do not give the MPs the right to replicate you. It's some kind of special benefit we've provided for the officials. We're just great! Translating a directive, implanting it one to one to our legal culture is like a foreign body, and it will be discarded in a year or two. These texts will be deleted because they will cause huge corruption. In the so-called relief of public procurements you insert a huge subjective element. Where more can we relieve them? Where else?! You do not realize where you are dumping Bulgaria! One sentence to para. 7: where a candidate or participant has not had access to such certificates or has not been able to obtain it in accordance with the time limits for reasons beyond his control, the contracting authority may accept other evidence. And again, you made an exception to the exception. Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u113	Thank you, Mr. Karadjov. Mr. Metodi Andreev for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u114	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, in order not to take up the time of the National Assembly, I will just say that my proposal is also to drop the word. "May" in Bulgaria means "door" in the field. This means that everything that colleagues have said before a given entity decides what it can and can't do. I am absolutely convinced that if this is a normal practice in Europe, because there is the rule of law in the countries in Bulgaria, which does not have the rule of law, it will become a very wicked practice. As for my second proposal, I would like to explain to the honourable Members the following: I am talking about art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 point "six years from the date of submission of the application or of the tender for construction. It is a question of the period within which activities must be demonstrated, the volume of activities similar to those awarded with the contract. Construction in Bulgaria is the most affected sector of the crisis. Not for nothing in this text, which claims to be an accurate transposition of European norms, construction is separated for five years, and other supplies and services here are spoken about the trade in various goods and services is three years. In my opinion, the text here is not very well translated by those who have translated. Construction is the last stage of an investment process. It is referred to as a construction process and includes: pre-project studies, design, supervision, control works and finally follows construction. It is not logical to give five years during which volumes, activities can be demonstrated and so on, related to a specific public procurement only for the participants, those who perform the final phase of an investment process. This brings us back to what I said before: once again it is thought about the huge, large corporate construction companies, and for small, medium, design companies and supervisory consulting companies, it is not thought in this text. Since the text on construction and services relating to it has not been adopted as I have suggested, I suggest that we make the following editorial amendment. That's why I'm proposing an editorial amendment. In the text of art. 63, para. 1, t. This is the most clear and precise description of what the legislator wanted to say. Then there won't be any collision. I think it's normal, and it has to be considered a correction because it reflects the actual state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u115	About the investment process...?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u116	For the investment process, the construction process. Thus, we cover all companies that have suffered equally from the construction crisis. Otherwise, at the moment we are doing a sort of split-up, one can go back five years, the other companies whose activity precedes the construction are going to a sub-paragraph. It doesn't make sense. We must unite all these participants in this very way: an investment process, so that there is no sense of discrimination that some are discriminated against at the expense of others. That's what I propose as an editorial proposal. Otherwise, for the word, I too support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u117	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Andreev, you said the translation was not accurate. On the contrary, the translation is accurate, but it is a literal translation. That's where all the confusion comes from in the entire bill. Not meaning, but literally translation copy paste literally of the directive. I agree with your proposal, it is resonant, reasonable, but I think that whatever proposals we make in this House, they are meaningless because of all the futility of this translation and of this Bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u119	Any other lines? I won't. Would you like to take advantage of the right to the backrest? No. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u120	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am pleased that our first proposal on these two articles is........................................................................................ 63 and 64, our addition to para. 6 is supported by the Commission, as this requirement has so far been in the Law... I do not know why it has been missed. In fact, it is about trying not only to count on companies that have been involved in public procurement so far, but to be able to allow new persons. In this way, we do not put a barrier to business and especially to new companies that want to join. It is good that the Commission has supported this proposal. Our second proposal................................................................................................ 64, is not supported by the Commission, and it coincides with the principle idea of the European Commission, and of the Directive itself, the compliance with the criteria to be demonstrated at the time of the execution of the contract and not at the time of the statement of interest. I am surprised that the Commission has not supported it, as this is also the idea of the directive itself, and this is precisely our proposal, which I hope you will support now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 27, they won't mind, they abstentioned 69. The offer is not accepted. From the parliamentary tribune were proposed by the National Representative Philip Popov: everywhere the expression may fall. The first one has already been voted in par. 1.. at the beginning of the subparagraph, after the contracting authority. Such a proposal is also in the last sentence of para. 1... can.............................................................................................. The same proposal is in para. Three and four. We are voting on the proposals made by the MP Philip Popov for dropping the expression.................................................................................................. Art. 1, 3 and 4 63. Please vote on the proposals of MP Philip Popov. They voted 92 MPs: 19 against 33, abstention 40. The proposals have not been accepted. [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] Vote the proposal made by the MP Metodi Andreev and then we will return to yours, Mr. Popov. Metodi Andreev made the following proposal from the parliamentary tribune in art. 63, para. 1, t. 1 sub-paragraph (a) is replaced by the following: "Five years from the date of submission of the application or tender for the investment process'. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Metodi Andreev. Vote 92 MPs: 24, none, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Re-vote Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u122	Colleagues, what we voted on right now is Nonsense again. Here I agree with Mr. Philip Popov the translation cannot be literal. The translation is clear that this is a whole investment process, otherwise there is discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u123	Mr. Andreev, it's a re-vote procedure. I haven't been able to vote. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u124	So I ask you again to rewrite the text with what I have proposed as an editorial amendment. I'm asking you to support this editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u125	Revoting procedure. Vote 85 MPs: 23, Against 6, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Tribune by the National Representative Philip Popov: "In para. 3 of art. 63 drop the expression if this authority agrees to carry out an inspection on behalf of the contracting entity...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please vote on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov. They voted 87 MPs: 13 against 29, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 63 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 6. Article 63 on the Commission report has been adopted. We're going to vote on art. 64. We have the unwelcome proposal of the MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs. Vote unsupported by the Commission a proposal from a Member of the National Assembly. They voted 96 MPs: 24, against 5, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by the MPs Nastimir Ananiev and a group. 90 MPs voted: 24, against 3, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. There are proposals from MP Philip Popov who are mostly identical to the proposals we have already rejected. Only the proposal made by the parliamentary tribune for the removal of para. 8, which was done by MP Philip Popov. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov. 90 MPs voted: 13 against 33, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 64 by importer supported and edited by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 72, against 4, abstention 14. Article 64 of the Commission report has been adopted. It's 11:28. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. We'll continue at 1200 hours. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u126	We will proceed with the hearing. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u127	Article 65 supposed by the National Representative Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 1 to be amended as follows: Art. 65 (1) Candidates or participants may refer to the capacity of third parties regardless of their legal relationship with respect to criteria relating to economic and financial situation and technical capacity. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 2, para. 4, para. 5 and para. Six down. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 7 words................................................................................. To be replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 65 para. 4 is amended as follows: The third parties should meet the relevant selection criteria for demonstrating which the applicant or participant refers to their capacity. For third parties receiving more than 10 per cent of the value of the contract, there should be no grounds for exclusion from the procedure. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 65: Use of third party capacity Art. 65. (1) Applicants or participants may refer to the capacity of third parties regardless of their legal relationship with the criteria relating to the economic and financial situation, technical capabilities and professional competence. (2) With regard to criteria relating to professional competence, applicants or participants may refer only to the capacity of third parties if persons with whose education, qualification or experience the requirements of the contracting entity are demonstrated to participate in the performance of the part of the contract for which that capacity is required. (3) Where the applicant or participant refers to the capacity of third parties, it shall be able to demonstrate that it will have their resources by submitting documents for the obligations undertaken by third parties. (4) Third parties shall meet the relevant selection criteria for demonstrating which the applicant or participant refers to their capacity and shall not have the grounds for exclusion from the procedure. (5) The contracting entity shall require the applicant or participant to replace the third party designated by it if it does not meet any of the conditions under para. 4. (6) Under the procedure, the contracting entity may provide for a requirement of solidarity responsibility for the performance of the contract by the applicant or participant and the third party whose capacity is used to demonstrate compliance with the criteria relating to the economic and financial situation. (7) Where a candidate or participant in the procedure is a association of natural and/or legal persons, he may prove the fulfilment of the selection criteria with the capacity of third parties subject to the conditions laid down in para. 2............................................... Article 66 "Sub-contractors'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 66: Sub-contractors Art. 66. (1) Applicants and participants shall indicate in the application or tender subcontractors and the share of the contract to be awarded if they intend to use them. In this case, they must provide proof of the obligations undertaken by subcontractors. (2) Subcontractors shall meet the relevant selection criteria according to the type and share of the contract to be executed and shall not have grounds for exclusion from the procedure. (3) The contracting authority shall require the replacement of a sub-contractor which does not meet the conditions under para. 2. (4) Where the part of the contract to be executed by a sub-contractor may be transferred as a separate object to the contractor or contracting entity, the contracting entity shall pay remuneration for that part of the sub-contractor. (5) The payments under para. 4 shall be carried out on the basis of a request made by the sub-contractor to the contracting authority through the contractor who is obliged to provide it to the contracting entity within 15 days of receipt of the request. (6) To the request under para. 5 The contractor shall provide an opinion showing whether he contests the payments or any part of them as undue. (7) The contracting authority shall have the right to refuse payment under para. 4 where the request for payment is challenged, until the reason for the refusal has been removed. (8) The applicable rules on direct payments with subcontractors shall be specified in the procurement documents and in the contract award contract. (9) Notwithstanding the possibility of the use of subcontractors, the contractor shall be responsible for the performance of the contract. (10) In the case of public works contracts, as well as for services the performance of which is provided at the subject-matter of the contracting entity, after the conclusion of the contract and at the latest before the start of the contract, the contractor shall notify the contracting authority of the name, contact details and subcontractors' representatives referred to in the tender. The contractor shall notify the contracting authority of any changes to the information provided during the performance of the contract. (11) Replace or inclusion of a sub-contractor during the execution of a contract shall be permitted exceptionally where necessary if the following conditions are met at the same time: 1. for the new sub-contractor there are no grounds for exclusion in the procedure; 2. the new sub-contractor meets the selection criteria that the previous sub-contractor met, including with regard to the proportion and type of activities to be carried out, adjusted according to the activities carried out so far. (12) Upon replacement or inclusion of the sub-contractor, the contractor shall submit to the contracting entity all documents demonstrating the fulfilment of the conditions under para. 11. "Department III............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Article 67 Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 67: Art. 67. (1) When submitting an application for participation or tender, the applicant or participant shall declare the absence of grounds for exclusion and compliance with the selection criteria by submitting a single European Public Procurement Document (EEDOP). It shall provide the relevant information required by the contracting entity and indicate the national databases containing the declared circumstances or the competent authorities which, under the legislation of the country in which the applicant or participant is established, are obliged to provide information. (2) Where the applicant or participant has indicated that it will use the capacity of third parties to demonstrate compliance with the selection criteria or that it will use subcontractors, a separate EEDOP containing the information under para shall be presented for each of them. 1. (3) Applicants and participants may use an EEDOP that has already been used in a previous procurement procedure, provided that they confirm that the information contained therein is still up-to-date. (4) The single European public procurement document shall be provided in electronic form by a model established by an act of the European Commission. (5) The contracting authority may require participants and candidates at any time to submit all or part of the documents demonstrating the information referred to in the EEDOP where necessary for the lawful conduct of the procedure. (6) Before the conclusion of a contract, a framework agreement or contract award on the basis of a framework agreement, the contracting entity shall require the contractor to provide up-to-date documents certifying the absence of grounds for exclusion from the procedure and compliance with the selection criteria set out. The documents shall also be submitted for subcontractors and third parties, if any. (7) Paragraph 6 shall not apply to the award of a contract on the basis of a framework agreement concluded with one participant setting out all the conditions. (8) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to require documents which: 1. have already been made available to him or have been officially known to him, or 2. may be provided through direct and free access to the national databases of the Member States. "Section IV............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV. Article 68 "Instruction by entering on official lists or certification by authorities'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 68: Art. 68. (1) To demonstrate the personal status, compliance with the selection criteria or compliance with the technical specifications, the applicant or participant may provide a certificate of registration on an official list of approved economic operators or a certificate issued by a certification body. In such cases, the contracting authority may not remove the applicant or participant from the procedure or refuse to enter into a contract with him on the grounds that he has not submitted any of the required documents, provided that the relevant circumstances are demonstrated by the certificate or certificate submitted. (2) For each specific procedure, the contracting authority may require an additional certificate relating to the payment of social security contributions and taxes, irrespective of the certificate submitted by the applicant or the participant for registration in an official list of approved operators, except in the cases referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8. (3) The information which may be extracted from registration on official lists or certification shall not be contested without the existence of grounds. (4) The contracting authority may not require candidates or participants from other Member States to undergo the registration or certification process in order to participate in the procurement. The contracting authority shall recognise equivalent certificates issued by bodies established in other Member States. (5) Contracting entities shall accept registration certificates or certificates issued by bodies established in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State in which the applicant or participant is established. Article 69 "Official lists of approved business entities and certification by authorities'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Official lists of approved operators and certification by authorities Art. 69. (1) The Council of Ministers may designate bodies or persons who establish and maintain official lists of approved operators for certain activities or certification bodies for the certification of operators for compliance with technical specifications. (2) The conditions for listing in the lists under para. 1 must comply with the requirements of art. 54-64. (3) For the registration of persons from other Member States in the lists under para. 1 or for their certification by the authorities under para. 1 no additional evidence other than those requested by the Bulgarian persons is required. (4) The persons or bodies referred to in para. 1 shall be required, upon request by a person established in another Member State, to provide information on the documents submitted as evidence of registration on an official list or as evidence that the economic operators of another Member State hold an equivalent certificate. Section V The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that Section V become Chapter Eight: "Chapter 8...................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u128	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In this statement I will take account of art. 65, then I have suggestions in other texts from those read, so if you could, Mr President, give me the word further afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, in art. 65 in my opinion, it is now either a mistranslation or a total deletion of the difference between the so-called "subcontractor" and the "third person." First, let us try to explain what we have so far understood by the third person. The contractor takes over to perform part of the work or part of the delivery of the main contractor is this, say, the winner of the tender or the contest that will perform the subject of the order. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, however, it is said that these third parties must perform, I would like to highlight you immediately on para. 2. "In relation to the criteria relating to education, professional qualification, professional experience, candidates or participants may rely on the capacity of third parties only if those persons will perform the works or services. In fact, third parties only give you something. From them you can hire equipment, from them you can hire certain persons including persons who have the relevant qualifications, but they in no way perform the construction or services. Because if they do, they'll be subcontractors. Secondly, I will draw your attention to para. 4. Third parties should meet the relevant selection criteria for demonstrating which the applicant or participant refers to their capacity and for which there are no grounds for exclusion from the procedure. This is absolutely wrong. It's doctrinally wrong. When you hire a technique or use foreign experience through its workers or specialists, you just give something. You do not become a sub-contractor, therefore you must not meet any such additional conditions. The additional conditions, at least until now, and all over the world, only performers and subcontractors respond. This total deletion of the boundary between the third person and the sub-contractors is most likely due to the fact that I have not studied the linguistic abilities of the prepatriates, I would not say the contributors, but to the prepatriates of this unskilled translation, but it seems to me that this is a translation error. In relation to para. 1 of art. 65 We face this again, otherwise the common denominator of this Law for the easier award of public contracts. As if even easier public procurement is a goal! That can't be any purpose. It states that applicants or participants may, where appropriate,......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Once again, here at the base, in the principal term, in para. 1, this total error is made to erase the boundary between the person responsible and the third person (s), not to mention the phrase (s) where appropriate. What does it mean when appropriate, colleagues? Who determines when it's appropriate and when it's not? Who is this contracting entity of the world where the stars speak to him from above and tell him that this is appropriate, that is not? Let's stop with these idiots in this text and this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u132	You wanted to speak to the other members?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u133	Then another statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u134	- What's the line? I won't. Are there any other speeches? You are welcome to speak with the other members of art. Art. 66, Art. 69 including Mr. Karadjov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u135	No, that's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u136	There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 79 MPs: 11 against 10, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Georgi Kadiev, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 8 against 30, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 65 to 69, including by importer supported by the Commission, and shall take place in its report after its amendment, as well as the names of Section III, Section IV and Section V. Vote 81 MPs: 75, against 3, abstention 3. Articles 65 to 69 including as well as the names of Sections III to V including, according to the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u137	The award criteria for contracts shall be laid down in Chapter Eight. Under art. 70 Types of award criteria.. a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 70, para. 11 a sentence is added second with text: "Extremely make the cost of employment, which cannot be under state regulation." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 70, para. 2 the award criteria shall be arranged as follows: 1. Criterion 3 becomes criterion 1; 2. Criteria 1 and 2 become 2 and 3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The proposal by the MP Nastimir Ananiev and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 70: Types of award criteria Art. 70. (1) Public contracts shall be awarded on the basis of the most economically advantageous tender. (2) The most economically advantageous tender shall be determined on the basis of one of the following award criteria: 1. lowest price; 2. level of costs, taking into account cost-effectiveness, including life-cycle costs; 3. an optimal quality/price ratio that is assessed on the basis of the price or level of costs, as well as indicators involving qualitative, environmental and/or social aspects related to the subject-matter of the contract. (3) The selected award criterion under para. 2 shall be indicated in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure or invitation to confirm interest and in the procurement documents. (4) The indicators included in the criterion under para. 2, p. 3 may contain: 1. a quality measure, including technical parameters, aesthetic and functional characteristics, accessibility, purpose for all users, social, environmental and innovative characteristics and innovative commercial techniques and conditions; 2. organisation and professional competence of the staff entrusted with the performance of the contract where the quality of the staff involved in the performance of the contract can have a significant impact on the performance of the contract, or 3. maintenance and maintenance, technical assistance and conditions such as date of execution, method and duration of completion or completion. (5) The indicators included in the criteria under para. 2, p. 2 and 3 must be related to the subject matter of the order. They may contain factors that relate to each stage of the life cycle of works, supplies or services, even though these factors do not relate to the characteristics specified in the technical specifications. They must not give unlimited freedom of choice and must guarantee real competition. (6) Where the award criterion includes more than one indicator, the contracting authority shall determine in the notice or call for confirmation of interest and in the procurement documents the relative burden of all indicators and, where objectively impossible, arrange them in descending order. The contracting authority may determine the minimum and maximum limit values for quantitative indicators. (7) In the documentation, the contracting authority shall specify the methodology for a complex assessment and the method for determining the assessment according to each indicator. The way you should: 1. enable the level of performance proposed in each tender to be assessed in accordance with the subject-matter of the contract and the technical specifications; 2. enable the technical proposals in the tenders to be compared and assessed objectively; 3. provide applicants and participants with sufficient information on the rules to be applied in determining the assessment of each indicator, such as: (a) the quantitative indicators shall be determined in figures or percentages and the method of their calculation shall be indicated; (b) qualitative indicators that are quantitatively indivisible shall indicate the way in which they are assessed by the Commission with a specific value through an expert evaluation. (8) In duly justified cases, the price or costs payable may be fixed. In such cases, the assessment shall be based solely on quality measurement indicators. (9) In the case of a contract with a project design and execution of construction, the assessment indicators shall include characteristics relevant to each of the two activities. (10) The inclusion of valuation indicators that take into account the time for making payments (delayed or deferred payment) or the valuation of the amount or refusal of an advance payment shall not be allowed where an advance is envisaged. (11) Where prices of goods or services are subject to public procurement, applicants or participants may offer different prices only where this does not violate the regulation policy of those prices. (12) Contracting entities shall not be entitled to include selection criteria as performance indicators for the evaluation of tenders. Under art. There is a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 71: Life-cycle cost assessment Art. 71. (1) Life-cycle costs shall include a cost of production and one or more of the following costs: 1. costs borne by the contracting entity or other users such as: (a) costs of use such as energy consumption and other resources; (b) maintenance costs; (c) costs at the end of the operating period, such as collection and recycling costs; 2. costs related to environmental factors relating to the product, service or construction throughout their life cycle, provided that their value can be determined and verified; these costs may be linked to greenhouse gas emissions and other harmful emissions or mitigation of the effects of climate change. (2) Where contracting entities provide for an assessment of life-cycle costs, they shall indicate in the procurement documents the data to be submitted by the participants and the way to determine the assessment. (3) When assessing costs related to environmental factors, the way in which they are assessed shall comply with the following conditions: 1. to be based on non-discriminatory criteria and to allow for objective verification; where the way is developed for the specific contract, it should not give unjustified advantage to one person and put others in a disadvantage; 2. be accessible to all interested parties; 3. the data required by the contracting authority may be provided by participants in reasonable efforts, including where they are from third parties party to the Agreement on Government Procurement (SDP) to the World Trade Organisation or are party to other international agreements to which the European Union is bound. (4) Where a method for calculating certain life-cycle costs is compulsory under European Union legislation, contracting entities shall be obliged to use this method. (5) In the case of the award of a contract for the supply of road vehicles under Annex No 11 for the calculation of certain costs over the life cycle, contracting entities shall apply the methodology laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u138	Statements? People's representative Metodi Andreev. After him, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is in art. 70, para. 2 to change the urbanisation of the criteria for public procurement. So far in Bulgaria, the prevailing criterion was the lowest price. However, we have seen that this criterion, at least over the years, has proven itself, is not the best criterion. Not always the lowest price means the highest quality and cheapest construction. In this sense, my reasoning is usually in the field of construction, because it is something that remains visible and most concerning the lives of society. With regard to what has been so far, we should learn from the experience we have had. He's a bitter experience. We have learned to absorb European funds. It is high time that we learned to absorb them in addition to quantitatively and qualitatively, that is, we move from intensive absorption of European funds to further absorption, which includes the corresponding quality. So far, an extensive approach, because an extensive approach means an approach in which we bet on quantity, but do not pay attention to quality, is practically not the best. We have witnessed many times how companies that won under this criterion, the lowest price, and then with the help of additional agreements, anexes to the contract, the price comes out more expensive even than the highest bid that was rejected during the competition. Therefore, if this is indeed the translation from the European directive, I am personally astonished. It is unlikely that in Europe this vicious practice at the lowest price comes first, because a country that has realised its error in terms of the auctions made so far should, in any case, prefer the optimal ratio between quality and price. And thus avoid this so far applied extensive approach. That is why my proposal is: first of all to come the optimal quality ratio price. Not that it is mandatory for the specific contracting entity to be so, but that it is still a sign to Europe that we have the ambition of European money to put it in, except as a quantity, to achieve through them and a certain quality of service. That's the point of my proposal. It does not change anything, nor does it change the meaning of the Law and makes any radical changes. We're just showing that we've understood the bitter experience we've had over these many years. This would show that we have actually learned the lessons of our bitter experience. So I suggest you accept my offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u140	Any lines to Mr. Andreev? First line, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u141	Thank you, Madam President. Colleague Andreev, I am taking a line because you have said a great untruth in your speech and it is that, you see, we have learned to absorb European funds. That's not true. Years and practice show that many of those so-called EU funds have learned to embezzle European funds. That's why I'm taking a line to correct you. If they did, there are economic indicators that would indicate that Bulgaria's economic growth would be at least 20% higher at the moment, the money in circulation would be at least 4 billion more, but they are not because they are distributed under the table and are being exported on mysterious roads outside the EU member states so that they cannot be monitored. That's the truth. We must be precise and this Law is therefore called calmly, as I said, good day, and corruption and after the adoption of the second paragraphs of art. Art. 61, Art. 62, we can now call it the Corruption Promotion Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u142	Second line? A hole, Mr. Andreev? You won't use it. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! And here, as in other texts, we see the literal translation of the directive, its overexperience not meaning, but literally. I didn't see anywhere in the Law, maybe I just didn't see it, but I don't think there's a legal definition of the whole life cycle. What does the entire life cycle mean? And in t. 3 "Smart efforts': The data requested by the contracting authority may be provided by the participants in reasonable efforts. Is there somewhere a legal definition of what this reasonable effort is in the Public Procurement Act and in our law at all? I don't know what a reasonable effort means. There may be unreasonable efforts, and then we go into a medical terminology. We should not use such terms in this Law, but there are no explanations in Bulgarian law. That is why we have spoken that the entire Bill, including the Members under discussion, has no meaning. And naturally, the door to corrupt practices and schemes is opened here, because the contracting authority itself will interpret what the reasonable effort means and which efforts are reasonable, which are unreasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u144	A line to Mr. Popov? I won't. Any other MPs? There aren't any. The debate is closed. There's a vote coming up. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Kadiev, which the Commission does not support. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 81 MPs: 2 against 28, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Metodi Andreev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 87 MPs: for 7, against 11, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I put the name of Chapter Eight to the vote on the award of contracts, art. 70 under its name and reported art. 71 on which there are no proposals and speeches made in this House. Anblok we vote on the name of Chapter Eight, art. 70 and 71 on the Commission report, together with their names. 90 MPs voted: 85 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u145	Article 72 "Unusually low offers'. A proposal from the MP Grozdan Karadzhov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the "2." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 1 to drop the words Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 72, para. 4 after the expression 'cause the corresponding norms and rules are added, as well as the corresponding rules, have not been complied with. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal proposes the following version of art. 72: Unusually favorable offers Art. 72. (1) Where a proposal in a participant's bid relating to a price or cost to be assessed is more than 20 per cent more favourable than the average of the other participants' proposals under the same valuation indicator, the contracting entity shall require a detailed written justification of how it is formed, which shall be submitted within 5 days of receipt of the request. (2) The justification under para. 1 may refer to: 1. the economic characteristics of the production process, of the services provided or of the construction method; 2. the chosen technical solutions or the existence of exceptionally favourable conditions for the participant for the provision of the products or services or for the execution of the works; 3. originality of the decision proposed by the participant regarding the works, supplies or services; 4. Compliance with the obligations under art. 115; 5. the possibility for the participant to receive State aid. (3) The justification received shall be assessed in respect of its completeness and objectivity regarding the circumstances under para. 2 to which the participant refers. Where necessary, supplementary information may be requested from the participant. The justification may not be accepted and the participant may be removed only where the evidence submitted is not sufficient to justify the price or cost proposed. (4) An offer shall not be accepted where it is established that the price or costs proposed therein are more than 20 per cent more favourable than the averages of the relevant offers in the other tenders because environmental protection, social and labour law rules, applicable collective agreements and/or international environmental, social and labour law provisions listed in Annex are not complied with. No. 10. (5) No tender shall be accepted where it is established that the price or costs proposed therein are more than 20 per cent more favourable than the average of the relevant offers in the other tenders due to State aid received where the participant cannot demonstrate within the prescribed period that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of art. 107 TFEU. (6) Contracting entities shall notify the European Commission of all cases under para. 5. (7) All authorities shall, on request and within their competence, provide contracting entities, including other Member States, with information relating to laws and regulations, applicable collective agreements or national technical standards relating to the evidence and documents submitted in relation to the data under para. 2. "Chapter 8" "Processes used by public entities". The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter Eight, which becomes Chapter Ninth, be amended as follows: "Chapter 9" - Procedures applied by public entities. Rules for the selection of a procedure. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 73: Rules for selection of procedure Art. 73. (1) In the case of public procurement, public contracting entities may choose a freely open or restricted procedure. (2) Public contracting entities may choose a competitive procedure with negotiation or competitive dialogue: 1. in the case of an order for which one of the following conditions is available: (a) the needs of the contracting entity cannot be satisfied without adapting available market solutions; (b) the procurement shall include a decision/decision relating to design or innovation; (c) the contract may not be awarded without negotiations due to special circumstances relating to the nature, complexity or legal and financial framework, or due to the risks involved; (d) the technical specifications may not be established by the contracting authority with the necessary accuracy by reference to a standard, European technical assessment, common technical specifications or technical benchmarks; (e) the contract shall be for Annex No 2; 2. where an open or restricted procedure is terminated, as the tenders submitted do not qualify for submission, including for form, method and duration, or candidates or participants do not meet the selection criteria set out or there are any grounds for exclusion from the procedure. (3) In the case of an innovation partnership, a negotiated procedure without prior notice and a competition for a project shall apply respectively the provisions of Art. 78-80.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u146	Statements? Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal I have made is rather editorial, does not concern the substance of the text proposed. Enumerated norms of environmental, social, labour and so on express some of the norms that can be fundamental and leading in such a public procurement. However, nowhere in this enumeration do we see the technical norms, nowhere do we read the building rules, the rules on which the project itself is based if it is subject to public procurement. Therefore, the proposal I am making is precisely in this sense to add the necessary norms and rules that correspond to the nature of the public procurement announced. If this is for the construction of a building, the relevant norms for this type of building, if it is for facilities, the corresponding construction standards for this type of facility. Because there may be the following case: a lower price may be given on the basis of a poorly protected project where, to say, no important building standards have been met, except for all the norms that are then issued That's the point of this text. I say again: he is purely meaning, not someone who reverses the meaning of the article in question. I'm asking you to think about what I'm saying and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u148	- What's the line? Any other MPs for a statement? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u149	Thank you, Madam President. I'm making an editorial proposal by analogy to art. 72, para. 1 where a five-day period has been given since receipt of the request to provide a detailed written justification. In para. 3 - If necessary, a supplementary information may be requested after a period of five days after receipt of the request. Let's set some time limit for this additional information, not for it to hang over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u150	In para. 1 after the words...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u151	No, in al. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u152	Article 72, para. 1? You said by analogy of this text you made a proposal in para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u153	Yeah, after.. supplementary
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u154	After the words...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u155	After the words "explaining information', write down:.. which is provided within five days of receipt of the request. And then the sentence goes on: The justification may not be accepted................ and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u156	Yes, thank you. - What's the line? Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the proposal of Mr Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs in the part where the Commission does not support him. We are voting for an unsupported proposal. Vote 76 MPs: 4 against 16, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev. The Commission does not support it. They voted 73 MPs: 52, against 1, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. Since the quorum is 66 MPs, I put to the vote Mr Popov's proposal to supplement para. 3 in art. 72. In a sentence second after the words.................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u157	And from receipt of the request.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u158	From receipt of the request, but in a particular situation it can be very long, in another much smaller, it is the work of the committees, Mr. Popov. Vote 76 MPs: 8 against 8, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Now we vote art. 72 under its name, the name of Chapter 8 "Procedures used by public entities', the name of Chapter 9 and art. 73 by its name and the wording of the two Articles 72 and 73 by the Commission Report. We vote. [[Heckling]] Yes, Chapter Eight becomes Chapter Nine as reported. Vote 87 MPs: 78, against 3, abstention 6. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u159	"Open procedure" "Art. 74. Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 74, para. 4 texts which require an urgent award of a contract.............................................................................................. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 74: Open procedure Art. 74. (1) The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders in open procedure shall be 35 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (2) The term under para. 1 may be shortened but may not be shorter than 15 days if the contracting authority has published a prior information notice and it: 1. has been sent for publication between 35 days and 12 months before the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication, and 2. shall include all information referred to in Section I of Part A of Annex No 4. (3) The term under para. 1 may be reduced by 5 days when the contracting authority has allowed the submission of tenders by electronic means, in accordance with art. 39, para. 1, 2 and 8 - 13. (4) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the term under para. 1 Contracting entities may set a time limit for receipt of tenders not less than 15 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (5) In the contract notice, the contracting entity shall motivate the application of para. 4. Article 75 Proposal by the National Representative Grozdan Karadzhov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75, para. 7 the texts which require an urgent award of a contract The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 75, para. 3 at the end of the sentence after the call for a call for proposals, the criteria relating to the professional capacity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or technical and professional capacity of the applicant shall be added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 75: supplied procedure Art. 75. (1) Any person may apply for participation in a limited procedure in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) The minimum period for receipt of applications for participation in a restricted procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of: 1. the contract notice for publication, or 2. the invitation to confirm interest where a prior information notice has been used to disclose the initiation of the procedure. (3) In a restricted procedure, tenders shall submit only candidates which the contracting authority has invited after prior selection. (4) The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders under a restricted procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. (5) The term under para. 4 may be shortened but may not be shorter than 10 days, provided that the contracting authority has published a notice of prior information which is not used to disclose the initiation of a procedure and that it: 1. has been sent for publication between 35 days and 12 months before the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication, and 2. shall include all information referred to in Section I of Part A of Annex No 4. (6) The term under para. 4 may be reduced by 5 days when the contracting authority has allowed the submission of tenders by electronic means in accordance with art. 39, para. 1, 2 and 8 - 13. (7) In the event of circumstances requiring urgent procurement, it is therefore impossible to comply with the time limits under para. 2 and 4, contracting entities may determine: 1. time limit for receipt of requests for participation - no less than 15 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication; 2. a time-limit for receipt of tenders - not less than 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. (8) In the contract notice, the contracting entity shall motivate the application of para. 7. (9) Public contracting entities under art. 5, para. 2, p. 8, 9, 14 and 16 may set a time limit for receipt of tenders and by agreement with the selected candidates upon completion of the selection. The agreement shall be admissible only if all candidates are granted the same time limit for the preparation and submission of tenders. (10) When no agreement is reached under para. 9, the time limit shall be determined by the contracting authority and shall not be less than 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u160	Statements under Articles 74 and 75? You have the floor, Mr. Karadjov. After him, Mr. Metodi Andreev. Mr. Philip Popov, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As it seems, Mr. Andreev and I will fight against this law on the legalization of corruption, however, we remain without any reasonable response from anyone in this Chamber. Particularly in art. 74, para. 4 and in art. 75, para. 7 and six or seven other places in the Law, which I have explicitly listed in my proposals, speak of such circumstances that require urgent procurement. I sought in the Law a legal definition of what an urgent procurement means. And let me tell you, there are all sorts of things, including postal services and so on, but about such an important thing, such as what circumstances mean that require urgent procurement is not spoken. An urgent procurement may also be necessary when the contracting authority has deliberately shaken its legs and suddenly has to react very urgently because it is late in time. Then he releases a very short period. During this very short period of time, who understood, who succeeded, fits, but mostly prepared with the best documentation, with the best conditions and so on are the dedicated in advance. If this doesn't sound like an example of corruption, I'm not surprised anymore. Too many things so far don't seem to sound like that to you. When a brand new law is proposed, which this Law claims to be, and what it is not, it is an unsubstantiated translation, I continue to claim it, or the legislator somewhere in the back, if you have seen there are many transitional provisions in which definitions of certain terms are given, you will say what it is that requires urgent procurement. What is this thing that's gonna require an urgent procurement? Or such a norm should sound in such a way as to send to a special law. For example, it is urgent to make the road of the highway of Hemus. It's urgent! Let it be recorded in the special law that serves the Agency on the road, which are these emergencies in which it can act on time limits or, if necessary, as my colleague has told me, a very urgent animal vaccine due to a situation that has occurred. Let the special law be written in such cases that this does not apply. Indeed, the special laws, according to the specifics, had to determine what the emergency situation was. When in this Law with a single phrase is said.. which require urgent award of orders..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Pass the entire train orders through emergency procedures! There in a week you will be able to quickly turn all the offers and choose the one you like most because they will have been warned months before. And let the fools bleach! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u162	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You're right, colleague Karadzhov, but here, besides the urgency, in art. 74, if you notice, you may have missed it, we are linking the date to the sending of the request, not to the announcement itself, but to the sending. Whoever found out about the shipment, found out who did not know within these short periods, obviously and in an emergency would not be able to qualify for this contract. It is absurd to assign to the contractor the rights arising from the execution or failure to fulfil the obligation of the contracting entity............................................................................................ Not from the knowledge of the procurement, but from the shipment there is a big difference. In this regard, as a replica, but I also make editorial proposals. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74, para. 1: The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders in open procedure shall be 35 days from the date of publication. Drop the other one. Respectfully and in para. 4: less than 15 days from the date of the call and not from the date of the sending of the request. In this way, there are created huge gates for corruption in relation to public procurement, along with this urgency, which Mr. Karadjov has rightly proposed to drop because there is no legal definition anywhere in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u164	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, if someone from the European Commission is watching us, they're probably gonna cry. We are currently importing and looking at a Law that should prevent these things from being corrupt, facilitate procedures, and here all colleagues who are up and talking speak speak the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u166	Only to Mr. Karadzhov you can give a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u167	He says the same thing. I am very worried if Mr. Karadjov is familiar with the procedures for conducting public procurement. In such cases, in urgent circumstances, permission shall be requested from the Public Procurement Agency, which shall review the circumstances and give their opinion on whether or not it is possible in this case. I can immediately give you an example of what an urgent order means. In a town that doesn't have a snow-cleaning contract and it rains 20 centimetres of snow, what the mayor does is a corruption scheme.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u168	No, he doesn't call an order at all. You don't know that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u169	Okay. So, you don't know what emergency means. By the way, there are many such cases in practice, obviously you are not aware, and if they go to be listed in the Law, which as a lawyer you should not offer at all, because you know that there is no way to do that, it would lead to a very big mix-up of all the laws we are looking at.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u170	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Karadjov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u171	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Popov, I hadn't noticed this nonsense in the Law either. If there is an option, honourable Members, let's try to miss it too, but with such a huge amount of blunders in this Law, one cannot track it and cannot read it all and clean all the disabilities. Rewritten, rewritten, rewritten, like we're on a student exam without Quaestors. [[Laughter and excitement.]] We cheat and vote! You don't write a couple about that, you write a unit. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Don't call from the spot! [[Laughter and excitement.]] Regarding what Mr. Ivanov said. Mr. Ivanov, if it snows and there is no cleaning company and the streets are clogged, we have some kind of disaster situation. The mayor's ordering an emergency situation, no order is being made, it's being cleaned immediately. He's solving these issues. There are those exceptions in the Law. [[Reply from the National Representative Svilen Ivanov.]] Wait a minute, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We're talking about reducing the deadline here. So many times this corrupt practice has been done, I was hoping one day we'd catch and close this door. Now, in a distance of 11 exceptions, 11 different places in this Law have opened 11 different doors for corruption. Eleven more!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadjov. To speak, the people representative Metodi Andreyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My proposal is still purely editorial. If we read art. 75, para. 3, we will see that this is a very important paragraph, as it regulates which companies can participate further. Says: those whom the contracting authority has invited after prior selection. If we read the texts that we have voted on so far, we will find nowhere to cover with this expression. We're not gonna find an expression anywhere............................................................................................. In Section II, Article 4 (1) is replaced by the following: 59, para. 1 has an expression for selection criteria. And because we know how to read these texts from the officials, there is a possibility that a contracting entity can go beyond the criteria set out in art. 59, para. 1, justifying that, see, in art. 75, para. 3 The legislator has recorded: criteria for preliminary selection. What I have proposed as a text, I accept, the Commission has not accepted it, is a purely editorial proposal, I am now doing it here, out of the stands, which completely clears this issue editorially and leaves no loophole to the clerk to decide what is the selection criterion and what is the criterion for preliminary selection. I suggest the following editorial change. I'm reading al. 3 of art. 75: In the restricted procedure, tenders may only submit candidates which the contracting authority has invited after selection according to the criteria under art. 59, para. 1.... clear, accurate and correct. Indeed, these are exactly the three criteria that each firm must show at any given time. Then you will not be thinking about what this selection criterion is and what is the preliminary selection criterion. I must tell you that on this basis there can be extremely many abuses. I think my editorial proposal is extremely correct and clears the issue of a different understanding of this text, so I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u174	Please repeat the proposal under art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u175	Regarding the criteria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 59, para. 1. " Everything becomes very clear and correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u176	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of Grozdan Karadjov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 21, against 10, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote proposals made by the parliamentary tribune by MP Philip Popov. The first proposal is art. 74, para. 1 to acquire the following form: The minimum time limit for receipt of tenders in open procedure shall be 35 days from the date of publication of the contract notice. Please vote. They voted 84 MPs: 19 against 17, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal of the National Representative Philip Popov is under para. 4 of art. 74. The Member of the National Assembly shall propose that the expression "send" in the last sentence be dismissed and that the sentence be completed as follows: "S 15 days from the date of the contract notice." Please vote. They voted 78 MPs: 13 against 26, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 74, supported by the Commission and edited by it. Vote 74 MPs: 65 against 3, abstention 6. The proposal is not accepted because of the quorum.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u177	It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u178	Procedure for re-voting art. 74 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 70, against 12, abstention 1. Article 74 on the Commission report has been adopted. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. I'm guessing procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u179	Mr President, honourable Members, we have not understood who requested the revoting after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u180	Me.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u181	It wasn't heard from you, but it was heard that someone in the room asked for it. I beg you very much, the next time you want it, ask it so that it is clear that it is from the tribune and not from the place, because we will start speaking from the place if it is a new order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u182	Mrs. Alexandrova requested a re-vote from the stands. Ms. Alexandrova asked for the re-voting very correctly because - as many colleagues have seen - failed to vote. She was one of the few colleagues who did not offer any arguments in substance precisely because of the reason for which a re-voting procedure was envisaged, but she asked for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u183	Annie, bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u184	We are voting on a proposal from the MP Yordan Karadzhov and a group of MPs under art. 75, not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 14 against 21 abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev. Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u185	I withdraw the proposal, but I would like to vote on my editorial proposal made by the stand on the same article.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u186	I can't help but think about it. Even if you hadn't asked for it, I still would have put it to the vote. We are voting on a proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev, made by the parliamentary tribune. 75, para. 3 to look like this: In a restricted procedure tenders shall submit only candidates which the contracting authority has invited to select according to the order of art. 59, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Please vote. They voted 73 MPs: for 6, against 8, abstention 59. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 75, supported by the Commission and edited by it. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 5. Article 75 on the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u187	Article 76 supposed by the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 76, para. 4 a second sentence is added with the following content: The criteria for pre-selection shall be announced at the opening of the procedure and shall relate to the professional capacity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or to the technical and professional capacities of the applicant. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 76: A competitive procedure with negotiation Art. 76. (1) Any person who may apply for competition with negotiation, in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) In the documentation, the contracting entity shall describe its needs and the necessary characteristics of the supplies, services or works and shall determine the award criteria. The documentation shall also specify the minimum requirements to be met by the tenders. The information provided must be accurate enough to enable interested parties to determine the nature and scope of the contract and decide whether to participate in the procedure. (3) The minimum period for receipt of applications for participation in the procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of: 1. the contract notice for publication, or 2. the call for confirmation of interest where a prior information notice has been used to disclose the initiation of the procedure. (4) In the competitive procedure with negotiation, only candidates invited by the contracting authority after prior selection may submit initial tenders to serve as the basis for negotiations. (5) The minimum period for receiving initial tenders shall be 30 days from the date of sending the invitation under para. 4. (6) The time limits under para. 3 and 5 may be shortened subject to the conditions laid down in art. 75, para. 5.. 8................................................................... (7) The contracting authority shall negotiate with the participants to improve the content of the initial and subsequent tenders. (8) The negotiations may take place at successive stages in order to reduce the number of tenders in question by applying the award criterion and the indicators for assessing the tenders referred to in the contract notice or in the invitation to confirm interest. (9) Where the contracting entity intends to use the option under para. 8, it shall indicate this in the contract notice or in the invitation to confirm interest. (10) At each stage of the negotiations, the contracting authority shall inform the contracting authority in writing of any changes to the technical specification or any other document of the documentation where admissible. The contracting authority shall provide participants with sufficient time to reflect changes in tenders and their submission. (11) Where the contracting entity intends to complete phased negotiations, it shall notify the participants and set a time limit for the submission of final tenders. In such cases, the contracting authority shall verify whether the final tenders comply with the minimum requirements and assess them on the basis of the selected award criterion. (12) When using the option under para. 11 the number of bids received at the end stage must ensure real competition insofar as there are sufficient tenders or applicants admitted. (13) The minimum requirements to be met by the tender and the valuation indicators are not subject to negotiation and cannot be changed. (14) When conducting the negotiations, the contracting authority shall ensure equal treatment of participants by not providing information in a way that may give priority to certain participants at the expense of others. (15) A procuring entity shall not be entitled to provide the proposals or other confidential information received from a negotiation participant to other participants without express consent on a case-by-case basis. (16) The contracting authority may not negotiate and award the contract on the basis of the proposals in the tenders initially submitted when it has provided for such an opportunity in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure or in the invitation to confirm interest. Article 77 "Competition of a competitive dialogue" - a proposal from the National Representative Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 77, para. The second sentence is added as follows: The criteria for pre-selection shall be announced at the opening of the procedure and shall relate to the competence for the exercise of professional activity and/or to the economic and financial situation and/or to the technical and professional capacities of the applicant. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 77: "Competitive dialogue" Art. 77. (1) Any person may apply for participation in a competitive dialogue in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) The contracting authority shall indicate in the notice and/or in a descriptive document its needs and requirements, the award criteria, the performance indicators for the evaluation of tenders and an indicative timetable for the conduct of the procedure. (3) The minimum time limit for receipt of requests for participation shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (4) Only candidates invited by the contracting authority after pre-selection may participate in the next stage of the dialogue procedure. (5) During the dialogue, all matters relating to the contract may be discussed in order to determine the parameters which best satisfy the needs of the contracting entity. (6) When conducting the dialogue, the contracting authority shall ensure a level playing field by not providing information in a way that may give priority to certain participants at the expense of others. (7) The procuring entity shall not be entitled to provide the proposals or other confidential information received by a participant in the conduct of the dialogue to other participants without express consent on a case-by-case basis. (8) The dialogue may take place at successive stages in order to reduce the number of decisions to be discussed by applying the award criterion and the assessment indicators specified in the contract notice or the descriptive document. Where the contracting authority intends to conduct the dialogue at successive stages, the notice or the descriptive document shall indicate that. (9) The contracting authority shall conduct the dialogue to determine the decision or decisions that may satisfy its needs. In the final stage, the number of decisions received must ensure real competition insofar as there are sufficient solutions that satisfy the requirements of the contracting entity or eligible candidates. (10) Upon notification of the closed dialogue, the contracting authority shall notify all participants remaining at the last stage and invite them to submit final tenders drawn up on the basis of the decision or decisions specified during the dialogue. Offers shall contain all the mandatory elements necessary for the performance of the contract. (11) In the case of procurement by competitive dialogue, the contracting authority shall assess the tenders on the criterion of optimal quality/price ratio and in accordance with the indicators specified in the contract notice or in the descriptive document. (12) The contracting authority may request that tenders be clarified, specified or improved. The explanations, clarifications and improvements and additional information provided shall not change the essential characteristics of the tender or contract, including the needs and requirements of the notice or descriptive document, if this can lead to distortion of competition or discrimination. (13) The contracting entity may negotiate with the participant who has submitted an offer with an optimal quality/price ratio to confirm the financial commitments or other terms of the tender by finalising the terms of the contract. The setting of the conditions must not result in a change in substance of the basic parameters of the tender or contract, including the specified needs and requirements in the notice or descriptive document, as well as distortion of competition or discrimination. (14) The contracting authority may provide awards or payments for participants in the dialogue. Article 78. "Partnership for Innovation" a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 78: "Innovation partnership" Art. 78. (1) Any person may apply for participation in an innovation partnership in which he must provide the information requested by the contracting authority concerning the absence of grounds for exclusion and its compliance with the selection criteria. (2) In the procurement documents, the contracting entity shall motivate the need to obtain an innovative commodity, service or construction, as well as the inability to be satisfied through the proposals available on the market. The contracting authority shall describe its needs by indicating which elements of the description are minimum requirements to be met by all tenders. The information provided must be sufficiently accurate to enable interested parties to determine the nature and scope of the decision sought and to assess whether they should participate in the procedure. (3) In the procurement documents, the contracting entity shall lay down the rules applicable to intellectual property rights. (4) The minimum period for receipt of an application for participation in the innovation partnership procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of the contract notice for publication. (5) In the case of preliminary selection, the contracting authority shall assess the technical and professional capabilities of candidates in the field of research and development and the development and implementation of innovative solutions. (6) Only candidates invited by the contracting authority after prior selection may submit tenders for research and innovation. (7) The contracting authority may provide for a phased negotiation in order to reduce the number of tenders by applying the award criteria and the evaluation indicators specified in the notice. Where the contracting authority intends to make use of this option, the contracting authority shall indicate that in the notice. (8) The contracting authority shall negotiate with the participants to improve the content of the initial and subsequent tenders, with the exception of final tenders. (9) The minimum requirements and assessment indicators shall not be subject to negotiation and shall not change. (10) In the case of procurement through an innovation partnership, the contracting authority shall assess the tenders only according to the criterion of optimal quality/price ratio. (11) When conducting the negotiations, the contracting authority shall ensure equal treatment of participants by not providing information in a way that may give priority to certain participants at the expense of others. (12) When conducting the negotiations, the contracting authority shall inform in writing all participants whose tenders have not been removed for any changes to the technical specifications or any other document from the procurement documents other than the one setting the minimum requirements. After such changes have been made, the contracting authority shall provide the participants with sufficient time to modify and re-submit the modified tenders. (13) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to provide the proposals or other confidential information received from a negotiating participant to the other participants without express consent on a case-by-case basis. (14) The Innovation Partnership Treaty aims at developing an innovative product, service or construction and the subsequent acquisition of the resulting supplies, services or works provided that they correspond to the performance levels and maximum costs agreed between the contracting entity and the participant/participants. (15) The partnership contract shall regulate the execution of the contract at successive stages according to the steps in the research and innovation process, which may include the production of products, the provision of services or the performance of works. (16) The partnership contract shall set out the intermediate objectives to be achieved and the contributions to be paid accordingly. (17) The contracting authority shall ensure that the different stages of the partnership reflect the degree of innovation of the proposed solution and the consistency of the research and innovation activities necessary for the development of the innovative solution. (18) The expected value of the purchased supplies, services or works must be proportionate to the investment needed to develop them. (19) The contracting entity shall not be entitled to disclose to the other partners the proposed solutions or other confidential information provided by a partner within the framework of the partnership without express consent of the contracting entity on a case-by-case basis. (20) In the cases referred to in para. 16 the contracting entity may complete the innovation partnership after each stage and, in the case of an innovation partnership with several partners, reduce their number by terminating individual contracts if it has indicated this possibility and the conditions for this in the procurement documents. "Negotiation procedure without prior call" Under art. 79 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 79: "Negotiation procedure without prior notice Art. 79. (1) Public contracting entities may apply a negotiated procedure without prior notice only in the following cases: 1. no tenders or requests for participation have been submitted under an open or restricted procedure or any tenders or requests submitted for participation have been inadequate and the initially announced terms of the contract have not been substantially altered; 2. when all participants are invited whose tenders in a prior open or restricted procedure meet the requirements of the contracting authority but exceed its financial resources; 3. the order can be executed only by a certain contractor in any of the following cases: (a) the purpose of the order is to create or acquire a unique work of art or creative product; (b) lack of competition for technical reasons; (c) the existence of exclusive rights, including intellectual property rights; 4. where urgent award of the contract is necessary due to exceptional circumstances and it is not possible to comply with the time limits, including the time limits, for an open, restricted procedure or a competitive procedure with negotiation. The circumstances justifying the existence of urgency must not be attributed to the contracting entity; 5. goods subject to delivery shall be produced for research, experimentation, scientific or development purposes and shall be in quantities which do not allow sufficient market realization or cover the costs of research and development; 6. where additional supplies of goods from the same supplier are required for partial replacement or addition of available supplies or facilities and the replacement of the supplier leads to incompatibility or substantial technical difficulties in operation and maintenance due to the acquisition of goods with different technical characteristics; 7. the subject of the order is the supply of a commodity which is traded on a commodity exchange according to a list approved by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance; 8. in the case of supplies or services supplied under particularly favourable conditions by a person who terminates his business as well as by Syndicates or liquidators in insolvency proceedings, in the case of an agreement with creditors or other similar procedure in which the person is in accordance with his national law; 9. the service shall be awarded after a project contest carried out under the law by sending invitations to participate in the negotiations of the ranking participant or to all rated participants in accordance with the terms of the contest; 10. where a repetition of works or services entrusted by the same contracting entity to the original contractor is necessary, subject to the following conditions: (a) the initial contract is awarded by open procedure, restricted procedure, competitive procedure with negotiation, competitive dialogue or innovation partnership; (b) the notice of the original contract shall indicate the possibility of re-contracting as well as the volume or quantity of possible additional works or services and the conditions under which they will be awarded; (c) the total value of the new contract is included and indicated when determining the value of the original contract; (d) the new contract corresponds to the basic project to which the original contract was awarded. (2) The contracting entity may apply para. 1, t. 3 points (b) and (c) only where there is not a sufficiently good alternative or substitute and the absence of competition is not due to artificial narrowing of the parameters of the contract. (3) The duration of contracts under para. 1, t. 6, including in the case of recurring contracts for such contracts, shall not exceed three years. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 7 contracts shall be concluded under the rules of the relevant exchange. (5) The reassignment of the works or services under para. 1, t. 10 may be applied no later than three years after the initial contract has been concluded. (6) By the decision initiating the procedure, the contracting authority shall motivate the applicable basis under para. 1. (7) The terms and procedures of the procedure shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. A project contest. There is a proposal from the MP Metodi Andreev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 80, para. 6 a second sentence is added with the following text: In the composition of the jury, at least half of the members must be competent and able specialists on the subject of the project, if possible persons with educational and scientific degrees. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 80: "Project Contest" Art. 80. (1) The project contest shall be held: 1. as part of a procedure for the award of a service contract, or 2. with awards or payments for the participants. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 1 the estimated value shall be determined by including the value without VAT of the service and any possible prizes or payments to participants. (3) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 the estimated value shall be determined by including the total amount of prizes and payments, as well as the estimated value, excluding VAT, of the public service contract, which may be awarded through a negotiated procedure without prior notice. (4) Participation in a project contest may not be restricted: 1. by indicating a national sign or territorial scope; 2. by requiring a certain legal and organisational form of the participant. (5) In open competition all interested parties may present projects. (6) Where the project contest is conducted with a limited number of participants, the contracting entity shall define clear and non-discriminatory criteria for reducing the number of candidates. In this case, projects may only present candidates who have been invited by the contracting entity. The number of invited candidates should be sufficient to ensure real competition. (7) The contest shall be held by a jury which shall be independent in the decision-making or the expression of opinions. As regards members of the jury, there shall be no conflict of interest with candidates or participants. (8) The conditions and procedures for conducting a project contest shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u188	That's it. To make a statement, there is the national representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u189	Before that, I would like to do a procedure, Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u190	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u191	I'm taking procedure the way it is. Mr. President, it is impressive that I understand that this Law is in a hurry to be adopted at second reading, but in the end we are at second reading, there are proposals that are not supported by the Commission. The coworker just read from art. 76 to the next chapter, to Art. 80, even though there were suggestions. Please follow the Rules of Procedure at second reading text, article by article. In practice, I now want to speak in art. 76 and since it is held in one discussion all the members, I will not be entitled to a negative vote according to art. 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u192	Special art. 79 will be put to the vote separately.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u193	So I ask you to follow the rules. Like I'm saying. Let's follow the rules. I'm moving on to the speech now.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u194	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u195	With regard to the statement, I am again paying attention in art. 76, para. 3: The minimum time limit for receipt of an application for participation in the procedure shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch. I am making an editorial proposal to be: 30 days from the date of receipt of the call, respectively below the call; as well as in art. 5: The minimum period for receipt of the initial tenders shall be 30 days from the date of receipt of the invitation under para. 4............................................................................................ There are no deadlines in the Bulgarian law in the PPC, in the PPC, in the Administrative Procedure Code that run, are legally relevant in terms of dispatch, is always bound by receipt. Even here in the National Assembly, when we adopt a certain law, it is announced in the Official Gazette on the day of the promulgation or the so-called "vocacio legis" it is supposed to be in order for the applicants to get acquainted with the relevant text. We are talking here, respectively, about an invitation or a call for a request, we cannot bind their legal sphere to the possibility that the contracting authority will send or not send a specific invitation, and this invitation is not known whether it will be received at all by the contractor. That's why I'm making the offer. Let's not get out of the process in the Bulgarian law and introduce such new pre-college because this is a matter of foreclosures. However, since when have these deadlines been running since the invitation was sent, has the contractor been aware of this dispatch, has it reached him?! It cannot interfere in the legal sphere, the capacity of the contracting authority, but at the same time is a passive party whose interests cannot be protected in any way by these texts. I repeat: this opens a huge door for corruption schemes, because who, when, sent the invitation, whether it has reached, to whom it has sent it, is already a big question mark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Do you have any lines? No. To speak, the people representative Metodi Andreyev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will withdraw the proposals under art. 76, para. Art. 4 and art. 77, para. 4 not because I believe that they are not correct and valid, because I see that we here, the MPs, follow strictly what the Commission has done. I keep thinking I'm right, but I'm pulling them out so I don't waste any of my colleagues' time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u198	And do you leave the 80th?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u199	Is that the same offer for the 80th?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u200	You've got the 80th.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u201	Is it the same? [[Heckling]] If it's the same, I'm pulling him out, too, yeah. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u202	It's not the same. [[Reply by National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev, made under art. 80, which is not supported by the Commission. 70 MPs voted: for 7, against 3, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the first proposal, which has just been made by the People's Representative Philip Popov in art. 76, para. The minimum period for receipt of an application for participation in the procedure shall be 30 days from the date of receipt of the request. It proposes to replace the word "send" with the word "send." The same is also the proposal under para. 5. We vote on the proposals made by MP Philip Popov in para. 3 and para. 5 of art. 76, the word "send" shall be replaced by the word "send." Vote 79 MPs: 15 against 26, abstention 38. I now vote on Members 76 to 80, including on the Commission's report. They are all supported texts of the importer and edited by the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on Articles 76 to 80 on the Commission report. Anyone who requests a negative vote on any of these terms will then have the time for each individual member. Vote 84 MPs: 70 against 9, abstention 5. Articles 76 to 80, including, have been adopted. Moving on, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u203	"Chapter 9" - Techniques and tools for electronic and combined orders. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of Chapter 9, which becomes Chapter 10, be amended as follows: "Chapter 10" "Special techniques and procurement instruments". "Section I........................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. Article 81 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 81: supplier requirements Art. 81. (1) Contracting entities may conclude framework agreements on the basis of the procedures laid down in the law and in the presence of the prerequisites for their conduct. (2) A Framework Agreement shall be an agreement concluded between one or more contracting entities and one or more contractors in order to determine the terms of contracts to be awarded during a specified period, including prices, and, where possible, the quantities envisaged. (3) The term of the framework agreement concluded by a public contracting entity may not be longer than 4 years, but by a sectoral contracting entity 8 years. (4) The term under para 3 may be longer in exceptional cases and for reasons related to the subject matter of the framework agreement. The contracting authority shall state the reasons for this in the notice. (5) In the case of a framework agreement concluded for the needs of several contracting entities or a central purchasing body, the contract notice and the framework agreement should indicate the range of persons who may benefit from it. (6) Following the conclusion of a framework agreement, no new contractors may be included. (7) Contracting entities shall not be entitled to use framework agreements in such a way as to prevent, restrict or distort competition. Article 82 The conclusion of a contract as a result of a framework agreement. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 82: A contract shall be concluded as a result of a framework agreement. Art. 82. (1) Where the framework agreement lays down all the conditions, the contracting authority shall conclude a contract by applying those conditions. In the event that the framework agreement is concluded with more than one contractor, it must specify the conditions on the basis of which the contractor will be designated under each specific contract. (2) Where the framework agreement does not specify all the conditions and it is concluded with one person, the contracting authority shall in writing request that that person supplement its offer. (3) Where the framework agreement does not specify all the conditions and is concluded with more than one person, for each contract to be concluded, the contracting entity shall conduct an internal competitive choice for the designation of a contractor. (4) Within the framework of the internal competitive choice, the contracting entity shall: 1. send a written invitation to the persons of the framework agreement; 2. fix an appropriate time limit for receipt of tenders taking into account the complexity of the subject-matter of the contract and the time needed to prepare the tenders; 3. keep the tenders until the expiry of the time limit for receipt; 4. appoint a committee to examine and rank the tenders; 5. determine by decision the contractor of the contract on the basis of the specified award criterion and conclude a contract or suspend the internal competitive choice. (5) The contracting authority shall indicate in the notice, in the procurement documents and in the framework agreement the criterion on the basis of which an internal competitive choice will be held and, where applicable, the indicators and the methodology for assessing the tenders. (6) For the conduct of an internal competitive choice, the contracting authority may apply the indicators and valuation methodology used for the conclusion of the framework agreement to specify them where necessary or include new indicators and methodology, where appropriate. (7) The contracting authority may hold an internal competitive choice and where it has concluded a framework agreement with more than one person in which all the conditions are defined, only if it has provided for it in the procurement documents for the conclusion of the framework agreement. This possibility shall also apply to individual items of the framework agreement. (8) In the cases under para. 7 The contracting entity shall specify in the documentation objective criteria on the basis of which a decision is taken to conduct an internal competitive choice or directly apply the terms of the framework agreement and which of the agreed indicators will be subject to an internal competitive choice. (9) In the case of the conclusion of a contract on the basis of a framework agreement, the parties shall not be entitled to change materially within the meaning of art. 116, para. 5, the conditions laid down in it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u204	We vote on the name of Chapter Ninth, which becomes Chapter 10a, the name of Section I and Articles 81 and 82 of the Commission report. Vote 77 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 4. The name of Chapter 9 which becomes Chapter 10a, Section I and Articles 81 and 82 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u205	"Department II" "Dynamite purchasing systems". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Article 83 The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 83: supplier requirements Art. 83. (1) The dynamic purchasing system (DSP) shall be an entirely electronic process that contracting entities may use in the case of frequent procurement, the type characteristics of which meet the requirements of contracting entities. (2) The dynamic purchasing system shall be open throughout its duration to any candidate meeting the selection criteria. Access and participation in it shall be free and free of charge for all interested parties. (3) The dynamic purchasing system may be separated by individual categories which may be based on the maximum permissible amount of expected specific contracts, a specific geographical area in which they will be executed, or on other objectively defined characteristics relating to the subject-matter of the contract. (4) All candidates meeting the selection criteria shall be included in the CPC. Contracting entities shall not be entitled to limit the number of candidates in it. (5) Where the procuring entity has divided the PEF into separate categories, for each category it shall determine its characteristics and the applicable selection criteria. (6) The exchange of information in the procurement through the CPC shall be carried out only by electronic means under the conditions of art. 39. (7) A dynamic purchasing system shall not apply to contracts in the fields of defence and security. Article 84 "Creating a dynamic purchasing system." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84. Article 85 "Inclusion of candidates in the dynamic purchasing system'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 85: Inclusion of candidates in the dynamic purchasing system Art. 85. (1) Any person may apply for inclusion in the CPC within the period of its validity. (2) The minimum time limit for receipt of applications for inclusion in the CPC shall be 30 days from the date of dispatch of: 1. the contract notice for publication, or 2. the invitation to confirm interest where a prior information notice or a periodic indicative notice is used as an invitation to participate in a procedure. (3) Within 10 working days of receipt of the application, the contracting authority shall decide on the inclusion of the applicant in the PPP by applying the announced selection criteria. In the event of a further verification of the fulfilment of the selection criteria, the period may be extended to 15 working days. (4) In the procurement documents, the contracting entity may set a time limit for the examination of applications longer than 10 working days if no call for tenders for the award of the first specific contract will be sent until the expiry of the specified period. (5) The contracting authority shall not be entitled to send an invitation to tender for the first specific contract before examining any requests received for participation within the period under para. 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 86: suppliing public procurement through a dynamic purchasing system Art. 86. (1) The rules of restricted procedure shall apply to procurement through the CPC. (2) The contracting authority shall simultaneously make a written invitation to all admitted candidates to submit a tender for each specific contract within the framework of the CPC in accordance with art. 34. Where the CPC is divided into categories, the invitation shall be addressed to the applicants included in the relevant category. (3) No new time limits shall be fixed for receipt of requests for participation after the invitation to tender for the first specific order has been sent. (4) The time limit for receipt of tenders shall not be less than 10 days from the date of dispatch of the invitation to tender. (5) The term under para. 4 may be determined by mutual agreement between the contracting authority and the applicants admitted, provided that all applicants admitted have the same time to prepare and submit their tenders. (6) The contracting authority shall determine the contractor of the contract in accordance with the award criterion and the indicators for the evaluation of the tenders referred to in the notice or in the invitation to confirm interest where the establishment of the PPP is announced by a prior information notice or a periodic indicative notice. (7) Where necessary, the indicators for the evaluation of tenders may be set out more precisely in the call for tenders. Article 87 "Updating of information'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 87: ? Updating the information Art. 87. (1) The contracting authority may, at any time during the period of validity of the PPP, request the applicants admitted to submit an EEDOP with updated information on the requested data on the basis of which they are included in the DSP. (2) The information under para. 1 shall be made available within 5 working days of receipt of the request. (3) At any time during the period of validity of the CPC, the contracting authority may request the candidates to submit documents to demonstrate the circumstances included in the ESPD, except in the cases referred to in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8. (4) The contracting authority shall decide to terminate the participation in the PPP where the result of the actions under para. 1-3 It is established that the applicant does not meet the conditions for inclusion in the CPC. Article 88 The extension and termination of the dynamic purchasing system. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 88: "Extending and ending dynamics" purchasing system Art. 88. (1) The period of validity of the SPS may be changed. In order to announce the change, the contracting authority shall use the model of the notice announcing the establishment of the CPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u206	We vote on the name of Section II, as well as Articles 83 to 88 inclusive, on the Commission report. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The name of Section II as Articles 83 to 88, para. One is accepted. Please report al. 2 of art. 88.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u207	In the event of early termination of the CPC, the contracting authority shall publish a contract award notice.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u208	We vote al. 2 of art. 88 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. Alinea 2 of art. 88 is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u209	Section III... Electronic The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Article 89. "General The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 89: supplier requirements Art. 89. (1) The electronic auction shall be a recurring electronic process beginning after an initial overall evaluation of tenders and allowing them to be classified by means of automatic evaluation methods for the new, lower prices and/or new values submitted in tenders concerning certain elements of tenders. (2) They shall not be subject to an electronic auction of public service and works contracts which have the object of intellectual activity, including construction design activities, and which are not subject to automatic evaluation by electronic means. (3) Contracting entities may elect a contractor by electronic auction where the technical specifications of the contract can be precisely defined, including in the case of an internal competitive choice conducted for the award of a contract under a framework agreement. (4) Contracting entities may conduct an electronic auction in the award of a contract by means of an open procedure, a restricted procedure, a competitive procedure with negotiation or a negotiated procedure with a prior invitation to participate. (5) Contracting entities may also conduct an electronic auction in the case of procurement within the CPC. (6) The electronic auction may not be applied if it prevents, restricts or distorts competition. Article 90 "The conduct of an electronic auction'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 90: "The conduct of an electronic auction" Art. 90. (1) The conduct of an electronic auction shall be based on: 1. prices where the contract is awarded solely on the basis of the price; 2. prices and/or new values of indicators where the award criterion is an optimal quality/price ratio or lowest cost ratio, when using a cost-efficiency approach. (2) The use of an electronic auction shall be indicated in the notice announcing the initiation of the procedure or in the invitation to confirm interest. (3) At least the following information shall be included in the procurement documents relating to the conduct of an electronic auction: 1. the indicators for the evaluation of tenders to be the subject of an electronic auction, provided that these indicators are quantified and can be expressed in figures or percentages; 2. the step, the unit of measurement and other technical parameters related to the automatic submission and evaluation of tenders and, where applicable, the minimum and/or maximum values of the indicators under point 2. 1 which may be offered; 3. the information to be provided to the participants in the course of the electronic auction and, where necessary, when it will be provided to them; 4. the information relating to the order of conduct of the electronic auction; 5. the conditions under which participants may submit new proposals; 6. information relating to the electronic equipment used, as well as the arrangements, conditions and technical requirements for connection. (4) Before conducting an electronic auction, the appointed committee shall carry out an initial evaluation of the tenders in accordance with the selected award criterion. (5) The procuring entity shall send by electronic means simultaneously an invitation to all participants whose tenders are admitted. (6) The Invitation under para. 5 contains: 1. the result of the initial assessment of each offer; 2. the connection order to the electronic equipment used; 3. date and time for the start of the electronic auction; 4. the ways of closing the electronic auction. (7) Where the award criterion is an optimal quality/price ratio, the invitation under para. 5 also contains the mathematical formula, the applicable indicators, their weight and units of measurement. Where options are provided, a separate formula shall be drawn up for each of them. (8) The electronic auction may take place in successive stages and the number of participants may be announced at any stage. (9) The electronic auction may not start earlier than two working days after the date of sending the invitations. (10) The conduct of the electronic auction shall be organised in such a way as to enable each participant to determine its relative position in the ranking at any time. (11) Provided that it is provided in the invitation, the participants may be provided with information on prices or values offered during the course of the auction by the other participants. (12) The provision of information in the course of an electronic auction may not lead to disclosure of the identity of the participants.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-01-27.u210	That's it. We vote on the name of Section III as well as Articles 89 and 90 in the version of the Commission. Vote 76 MPs: for 74, against none, abstention 2. The name of Section III and Articles 89 and 90 of the Commission report have been adopted. We're done for today. Tomorrow we continue with art. 91 of the same Bill. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
