ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u1	There's a necessary quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Dear colleagues, the terrorist attack yesterday in the heart of Europe, the capital of Brussels, is another act against freedom and peace. There is no excuse for such monstrous violence against innocent citizens. What is happening is incompatible with the values of modern Europe, one of the symbols of which is the Belgian capital. The MPs from the Forty-third National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria strongly condemn another barbaric act. We believe that these attacks are a manifestation of hatred, incredible cruelty and violence towards the peaceful citizens of Europe and the world. We are confident that its organizers will be captured and punished with the greatest weight of the law. We must be even more determined and uncompromising in the fight against terrorism. We are convinced that Europe will find the best way to protect its earned freedoms and remain a pillar of our civilization, values, morality and culture. We offer our deepest condolences to the victims' relatives and hope for a swift recovery of the victims. We stay side by side with our Belgian friends and the people of Belgium. Dear colleagues, let us bow our heads and with a minute of silence honor the memory of those who have died in the tragedy that has plunged Europe and the whole world into grief. Please, a minute of silence. [[Everyone's up. One-minute silence.]] My fellow Members, I propose to your attention a draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 23 March 2016, which was discussed earlier today at the Conference of Presidents. 1. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Importers. "Daniel Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Christian Mitev, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Lazarov and Yavor Haytov, on 25 February 2016. 2. Projects for decisions on changes in the compositions of a permanent delegation and permanent committees of the National Assembly. Importers "Crasimira Kovatchka" and a group of MPs on 18 March 2016 and Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 22 March 2016. 3. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Roads Act. Importers sat Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 15 December 2015; Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs on 9 March 2016. 4. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importers "Diana Yordanova" and a group of MPs on 2 March 2016 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 23 December 2015, adopted at the first vote on 10 February 2016. ....................................... 1 for Thursday. 6. First vote on the Bill on Real Estate Credits to Consumers. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 3 February 2016 (cont'd on 24 March 2016) ....................................... Two for Thursday. 7. Project for a decision to suspend the existence of the Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers sv. Valentin Radev and a group of MPs, on 18 March 2016 8. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015, adopted in the first vote, on 25 February 2016. 9. Draft decision to consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications. Importers of the Council of Ministers, on 24 November 2015, adopted at the first vote on 10 February 2016. 11. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consulting services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016. Importer 12. Parliamentary control under art. 91 " 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly" "Friday, 25 March 2016" at 9.00 p.m. Honourable Members, I propose that we vote on the Programme for the Work of the National Assembly for the period 23 March 2016. They voted 160 MPs: 141, against 1, abstention 18. Program accepted. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is proposed to be included as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly.. First vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112, No 554-01-185, submitted on 11 December by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 We propose that the Bill of Amendment and Supplement to the National Emergency System Act with a single European number 112 should be included in the weekly Programme. Dear colleagues, we are witnessing another discriminatory treatment of people with auditory and speech impairment. It is known to those of you who were members of the forty-one and forty-second National Assembly that such a bill was adopted at first reading. However, the executive representatives have dragged on long enough not to adopt the necessary provisions. The text of the Bill is short and clear to provide conditions for access to the National Emergency System for People with Hearing and Speaking Disabilities. I just want to remind you that when we introduced this draft law on 11 December, then we received the support from all the parliamentary groups. There was a deliberate statement by the Minister of Interior, in which the readiness to accept these changes was also declared. However, following a request by the Internal Commission, the Ministry of Interior has been refusing to provide a corresponding opinion for three and a half months now. If we continue to wait, we will be witnessing this continuing behaviour of the public administration, which hinders and does not try to solve in a modern way this so pressing humane problem for these people. That is why we propose the point to be included in the weekly program. Among other things, in discussions with experts and experts from the Ministry of Finance and technical services, the funds needed to carry out such activities are not more than 150,000. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Merdjanov. Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 149 MPs: for 73, against 8, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, 100,000 people with impaired hearing and a violation of speech opportunities await our decision. I don't know what the problem with the National Assembly is that we don't allow it. Our proposal should have been agreed and adopted by all MPs, because if we do not make this amendment in this Law, a large part of the citizens in Bulgaria remain uneven. In theory, everyone has the right to equal access to 112, and practically a large part of people are deprived of it. Here in the group we talk: can you imagine if, God forbid, something like this happens in Bulgaria that happened in Brussels, and these people get into this situation and they can't call 112? Moreover, we have proposed in this Bill because we are in the 21st century and there are extremely many technical opportunities to implement this proposal of ours, we have not closed things just to SMS or anything else, but we have left a wide opportunity for the Ministry of Interior to make the best decision in the case. We also create an opportunity to postpone it for six months so that the Ministry can think about it and solve this problem once and for all. If technical capabilities change in accordance with being able to change and the opportunities of these people to call...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u5	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u6	Revoting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues, re-voting regime. They voted 153 MPs: 81, against 18, abstention 54. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]] The proposal is adopted and is on the agenda for the Programme 23-25 March 2016. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u8	Dear colleagues, thank you for understanding and supporting the point to be included in the weekly programme. We suggest it be t. 3 for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u9	A reverse opinion? I won't. A voting regime for the newly adopted bill to be t. 3 on Thursday. Vote 148 MPs: for 73, against 27, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Dear colleagues... [[Noise and lines in BSP LB.]] Raise your hand. You shout unanimously: "Pregret! " Somebody raise your hand. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members,... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u11	Mr. Gokov, please! It's accepted in the program. On Thursday, whether it's going to be a third point or a fourth, or a fifth point, whatever. We have parliamentary control on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u12	I don't want to argue with you, Mr. Chairman, and with the MPs. We had the good sense to let him go. Let's take a look at this bill and solve it. There's no point in doing the numbers. We accept it, and we leave it a last point, so it won't get on the agenda. Let's do our job! It's not a problem. It's not worth that much money or opportunities. Thank you. Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u13	Dear colleagues, re-voting regime. Vote 151 MPs: for 67, against 34, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. Laws and draft decisions were adopted from 16 to 22 March 2016. 16 March 2016 "The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Mentality. Importers are Mariana Boyadjieva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. 16 March 2016 "Project to amend and supplement the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. Importers are Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. The bill is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. March 17th - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals. Importers are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 17 March 2016 "Project to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers are Danail Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The bill is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. 17 March 2016 "Project for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophonie (IFF) on the establishment in Sofia of the structure of the Ministry of Defence and its privileges and immunities on the Bulgarian territory and the supplementary arrangement. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on Budget and Finance. 18 March 2016 "Project for ratification of the General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the mechanism for Turkey, for the benefit of refugees and the Certificate of Contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria, with the attached payment schedule. The importer is the Council of Ministers, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Public Order and the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. 18 March 2016 "Project for a decision to suspend the existence of the Temporary Commission to examine all the facts and circumstances relating to the allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in domestic politics. We accepted it today and it's on the agenda. Importers are Valentin Ivanov Radev and a group of MPs. 18 March 2016 Project for a decision on a change in the compositions of a permanent delegation and permanent committees in the National Assembly. It's also on today's agenda. 21 March 2016 "Project for ratification of the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Tunisian Republic. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 21 March 2016 "The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Civil Serviceman. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 21 March 2016 "Project for the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean Aviation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Hazemite Kingdom of Jordan, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 21 March 2016 "Project for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Federative Republic of Brazil on Social Security. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to: the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 22 March 2016 Project for a decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. It's not distributed. 22 March 2016 Project for a decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Total number of bills On the basis of art. 82 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly are withdrawn the bill for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, No 654-01-33 of 16 March 2016. The contributors are Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs. Message: On 21 March 2016, in the National Assembly with ICJ, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, the United States of America, and The same was done in pre-trial proceedings No 8 of 2014 on the description of a case under the Sofia Public Prosecutor's Office, Prepiska No 4458/2012, according to the description of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office for a crime committed under art. 220, para. 2 in relation to para. 1 of the Penal Code. By letter dated 21 March 2016, the Vice-President of the National Assembly Tsochev informed the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova of the request and the possibility to deal with the attached materials. By application of 21 March 2016, the People's Representative Svetla Bachvarova informed the Vice-President of the National Assembly Kiril Tsochev that he agreed to arouse prosecution against her at the request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter the Vice-President of the National Assembly Kiril Tsochev has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova to arouse criminal prosecution against her on the request by applying a certified copy of the application. Messages for the period from 18 to 21 March. The National Assembly has received: - Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Justice's programming budget for the period 1 January 2015. " 31 December 2015' - Report on implementation of the budget of the Ministry of Finance for 2015. - Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Tourism's programming budget as of 31 December 2015. - Report on implementation of the programming budget as of 31 December 2015 of the Ministry of Transport, Investment Technology and Communications. - Report on the implementation of the 2015 programming budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. - Report on the extent of implementation of the approved policies and programmes under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as of 31 December 2015. - Report on implementation of the policies and programmes of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works as of 31 December 2015. The reports are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the relevant portfolio committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Honourable Members, according to the adopted Programme, the first item of today's agenda is: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE PROCEEDING CODEX. The report from the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Mr. Danail Kirilov. Please, Mr. Kirilov, read the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 654-01-24, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Christian Radev Mitev, Yavor Bozhilov Notev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 25 February 2016. At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 654-01-24, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Yavor Bozhilov Notev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 25 February 2016. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Alexander Stefanov, Director of the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Krasimir Sivev, Head of the Department of Procedure and Mrs. Anna Bachvarova, Chief Expert at the Department of Tax Policy and by Mrs. Galya Dimitrova, Deputy Director and Mrs. Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Department of Administrative Activities and Responsible Authorities. From Mrs. Pavlina Panova, Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation and Chairman of the Criminal College. The bill aims to regulate the rules under which criminal proceedings should be developed when it is established that it is set up for an act for which an administrative penalty has already been imposed. In a number of cases, despite the inadequacy of the accumulation of criminal and administrative criminal liability, criminal and administrative criminal proceedings are formed for the same act. The explicit framework of the rules to avoid double punishment is imperative, given the judgment of the Supreme Court of Cassation, No 3 of 2015, which resolves the problems related to the operation of the principle of.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In their opinions, representatives of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court of Cassation expressed support for the bill. On behalf of the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency, Mr. Rosen Ivanov expressed concern that as a result of the proposed changes, there could be an inability to punish or execute the penalties imposed on the perpetrators of certain acts. Point out that there is no clarity as to which administrative criminal proceedings are of the nature of criminal proceedings and noted that it is necessary to discuss in detail the proposed changes. People's representatives Dimitar Lazarov, Danail Kirilov and Yavor Notev took part in the discussion, who expressed their support for the Bill, noting the need to refine the individual provisions as well as regulation of rules on collateral. After the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 654-01-24, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov, Petar Vladislavov Slavov, Hristian Radev Mitev, Yavor Bojilov Notev, Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov and Yavor Iliev Haytov on 25 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. An importer's opinion? I can't see. In fact, the President of the Commission is also an importer, so he read practically the reasons. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches. We're closing the debate. Honourable Members, I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs, a voting regime in a moment. [[Noise.]] Voting regime, honourable Members. To recall, honourable Members, I put to the first vote the bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure with importers Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov, Christian Mitev, Yavor Notev, Dimitar Lazarov and Yavor Haytov, 25 February 2016. They voted 110 MPs: 92, none, abstention 18. At first reading was adopted the Bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you, colleagues. Second item of today's agenda: PROJECTS DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN THE COMPANY OF STANDING DELEGATION AND STANDING COMMITMENTS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Importers are Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs. Mrs. Kovatchka, will you read it or shall I read it? [[Reply by National Representative Krasimira Kovachka.]] Okay. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted a draft decision on a change in the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe by proposing the following draft decision: "1." Releases Kancho Yanev Filipov as the replacement representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. He elected Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka as the replacement representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. We'll decide on a vote, colleagues. 110 MPs voted: 106, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission shall: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. Art. 3 and Art. 22, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Stefan Stainov Zhelev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. 2. He elected Manoil Minchev Manev as a member of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Voting regime, fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u16	Please suspend the vote and declare the result. Vote 104 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 2. The proposal is adopted by which the draft decision on a change in this Commission is adopted. Dear colleagues, we have another proposed solution. I'll read it: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on completing the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 20, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stefan Stainov Zhelev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Honourable Members, voting regime. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, with point two of the voting agenda. Moving on to point three: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAWS AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ROADS. The first bill is by Mr. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. It is dated 15 December 2015. The second bill was submitted by Ms. Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs on 9 March 2016. Accordingly, these bills are allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Two reports are available. Please, Mr. Zelenogorski, come to the stand to present the Commission's opinion on the two proposed bills. You have the floor, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u17	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! As regards the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 554-01-186, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov: ♪ I can't believe At a regular meeting held on 21 January 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 554-01-186, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 15 December 2015. Mr. Doncho Atanasov, member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency took part in the Commission meeting. The bill proposes the introduction of a six-month wine charge, as well as the setting of lower wine charges for passenger cars meeting the requirements for the relevant environmental categories similar to those laid down for heavy goods motor vehicles. During the discussion, some of the MPs who spoke supported the proposed changes. Other MPs pointed out that the bill lacks a financial justification for the necessary costs to be incurred for introducing a new wine fee and printing new wine stickers, and that no similar funds are provided for the Agency's budget for the current year. The submission of the opinion by the representative of the Road Infrastructure Agency was disagreed with the proposed changes and the main argument for that is that the current European Union directive does not provide for six-month fees and none have been introduced into any Member State. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 4 votes............................................................................ and 8 votes.................................................................................................................................................................. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 654-01-31, submitted by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act submitted by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs on 9 March 2016. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting, and Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The bill was presented by the MP Irena Kotseva. The Bill proposes the termination of the state enterprise National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects." The proposal is based on an internal analysis of the enterprise's activities and an analysis presented by the World Bank, in the part of the infrastructure where it is noted that the company's existence is not justified in terms of its effectiveness, as it does not have sufficient added value for the overall process of construction, maintenance and management of road infrastructure, and individual project development activities, conduct of estranged procedures and others are entrusted to external contractors. The Bill proposes the activities carried out by the company to be undertaken by the Road Infrastructure Agency, which has proven its capacity in the overall process of design, construction, maintenance and management of road infrastructure. Issues of law enforcement regarding the projects implemented under the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure 2014-2020" and all property, financial and other relationships resulting from the termination of the activities of the National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects" are settled. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the Bill by also asking specific questions related to the termination of some of the contracts concluded by the national company, the guarantees for the implementation of the activities under certain contracts and the rights of the persons concerned from the termination of the respective contracts, to which they received answers from MPs, importers of the Bill, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote held, the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government with 15 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposes to the National Assembly a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Roads Act, No 654-01-31, submitted by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Zelenogorski. Before I give the floor on behalf of the importer, a procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for dropping item four from the agenda, namely the First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, to drop the agenda for the week from this vote today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u20	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposed procedural proposal: item four of the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly............................................................................................. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we are continuing with item three of the agenda. On behalf of the importer Mr. Petar Slavov, you have the opportunity to present the reasons for your submitted proposal under the Roads Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present very briefly the proposals for amendments to the Law on Roads that we have introduced with colleague Martin Dimitrov. As you've already heard, it's about two basic things. One is the introduction of a six-month bill, the other is the elimination of a discrimination that exists in the Law against cars referred to heavy goods. For heavy goods, you know, there is also a daily bill, there are also certain discounts from the price of the bill when they have a certain ecocategory. There's no such thing as that for cars. Why not? It's an interesting question. But, anyway, we suggest that the regime should be aligned and similar preferences should also be available for conscientious car drivers. First, I will start with the six-month bill - something that we think is quite important, especially in the context of the recently raised prices. We argue our proposal with several of these. First of all, you know that many Bulgarian citizens live abroad and they come to Bulgaria for a certain part of the year, so to speak, seasonally driving their cars. With them it is not correct to require to buy an annual bill for this period, which is, for example, three, four or five months. It makes perfect sense that there really is a six-month bill. Moreover, if you remember, when the debate was under way at the end of last year,.................................................................................................... you should not pay......................................................................... you should to pay.......................................... This refers to this situation clearly means that when a person drives his car a few months of the year, for example five or six, and not all, it is logical not to buy a year-round wine. Some of you, of course, can say:.. Then why not buy a monthly bill... for example three or four months, and solve your problem?........ only so the problem is not solved, colleagues........................................................................... because it is equal to one year, i................................................................................................................................................ This actually justifies the need for such a six-month bill. There is another argument that concerns our compatriots, who during the autumn-winter season usually do not drive their cars outside the population, that even early spring prefer to stay in the settlement and do not go out on the Republican road network. Apparently, they don't have to have a year-round wine either, and a six-month wine would do them much better. I will also comment on two things that we have heard in the Commission report, which have not been correct at least. First of all, it was said that nowhere in Europe was there a six-month bill, and that was contrary to the directive, which is not the case. You can check very easily too, but for example in Slovenia I am impressed that there are six-month wines and it has them not since yesterday, but for a long time. Obviously, it is also not a violation of the directive, as this directive is not binding and, in practice, the parties can introduce additional wines if they judge. It is important to comply with the basics described in the directive to have them, and it has them. Another important thing that I have learned in response to my parliamentary question, which I have addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Mrs. Bachvarova. It is said, colleagues, that last year more than 5 thousand were established drivers and it was established and sanctioned for driving without wine. When you make a simple account that you usually catch yourself, let's not say a tenth, but for example a quarter of the intruders, if caught, you can make your own account immediately about how much revenue you missed in the API budget and the state is talking about. Here I would recommend to the executive to consider how to increase control and not raise prices every year and thus practically good-natured drivers to pay for the offenders who do not pay their bill, but, on the contrary, to consider how precisely these intruders should be forced to pay for what we all pay to buy and drive. Then there will obviously be more revenue in the API budget and it can be really easier to differentiate in the way we propose. But I definitely do not accept the argument that there was no money in the budget provided this year for issuing six-month wines, because we all know that the value of the sticker is a small part of the price the wine, i.e. each wine is practically self-paying at the time of the sale. So I don't accept it at all, and I think it's absolutely wrong. Obviously, with the sale of these six-month vintages, revenue will be made into API's budget and they will also compensate for the small cost of the sticker itself. So I'm going to finish with this, and let's think about it, fellow Members, how to encourage honest road drivers, not just think about sanctions and really accept this offer of our six-month wine, which seems quite correct to me to our fellow countrymen who live abroad and come back here for the summer season, and to those of our compatriots who don't drive their cars all year round, but seasonally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. Mrs. Irena Kotseva, you also have the opportunity to protect your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Roads Act, we propose termination of the activities of a state enterprise National Company The aim of the proposed changes is to concentrate in one structure of the financing, construction and management activities of key sites of road infrastructure. The Road Infrastructure Agency has an expert potential for administrative and management capacity and proof of this are the successful completion within the framework of major infrastructure projects implemented under the Operational Programme of Transport 2007-2013. We are expecting the Road Infrastructure Agency to replace as a beneficiary of the Operational Programme The National Company Strategic Infrastructure Projects and thus will ensure continuity for the implementation of the projects and the developed expertise will be maintained. We are expecting the Road Infrastructure Agency to complete all of the projects opened by the National Company, Strategic Infrastructure projects and ongoing at the time of the entry into force of this Act procedures under the Public Procurement Act, contracts concluded with the contractors, as well as pending judicial, administrative procedures related to the projects implemented under the operational programme. The project provides that all assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations of the terminated company will be transferred to the Road Infrastructure Agency. The properties of state ownership, as well as the movable belongings of the terminated state-owned enterprise to carry out the functions of the agency until they are granted under the terms and under the State-owned Law, will be used by the Road Infrastructure Agency. The draft draft proposed texts concerning budget, financial issues related to the termination of the National Company Strategic Infrastructure Projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kotseva. Mr. Haytov, you asked for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u25	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedural proposal is to invite the Executive Director of the Road Infrastructure Agency to the Chamber. Lazar Lazarov. Our rules allow experts and leaders of this rank to participate in the debate when invited. My motives, Mr. Chairman, for this proposal are as follows. And in the management program of the main political party in the ruling majority GERB is placed as a priority the construction, maintenance, repair of roads, but here we are talking about something different about the design. And for us MPs, it is important whether this administrative structure could take on this responsibility and develop the work with regard to the design of roads, highways, tunnels, bridges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u26	Thank you. Moreover, I see that Mr. Lazarov is upstairs on the balcony. He just needs to change levels in parliament. Inverse opinion, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 82 MPs: 79, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask Mr. Lazarov to be admitted to the court. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the two proposals that have been made. First Mr. Martin Dimitrov declared a wish to speak. Please, you have the floor. It's probably going to be wine.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to confess to all of you that I no longer enjoy taking the floor and starting with good examples from neighbouring Romania and things that have happened there...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u28	Come on, enough of Romania!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u29	...and for vague reasons, they are not in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u30	Please calm down in the hall! Mr. Georgiev! We're in a room! Continue, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u31	Please, colleagues, listen to each other as we listen to you. Why in neighbouring Romania there is a three-month bill, it costs 13 euros for passenger cars, and the Road Infrastructure Agency is saying that, almost, the European directive restricts them to a similar measure to be adopted in Bulgaria. If you don't want to, colleagues, Romania, I'll tell you about Austria. Why in Austria is there a two-month wine, honourable colleagues, and it costs 25.7 euros and there can be no such solutions in Bulgaria? Why is there a six-month bill in Slovenia? Yeah, it's about motorcycles. Why, in this situation, the Road Infrastructure Agency said that the European directive restricted them in adopting such decisions? We, colleagues, should not be emotional. We shouldn't be yelling at each other here in the gym, that's not why they sent us people. We should make the best decisions for Bulgaria, including if we see a good and good European example, we should apply it in Bulgaria as well, not call it here! That's why they sent us the people, that's our responsibility. If a Bulgarian citizen only uses his car the summer season, why make him buy an annual bill or make him buy several monthly ones that become more expensive than the annual one at a time? Why not act in the way applied in Romania, in Austria, in Slovenia, to give people a choice? By the way, to be thorough and correct, I will tell you that in a number of countries there is also a 10-day winery. And that exists! This means that these justifications of the Road Infrastructure Agency that they generally liked the idea, but the European directive hindered them, this is not correct. Your argument, honourable Members, that the 2016 budget has already been voted on, I also do not accept it. I agree that if we vote on these texts, they should be implemented since 2017. But let's think about it and move in the right direction. If you do not agree to have a 6-month bill, we are completely inclined between first and second reading to transform it into a 3-monthly one. But you understand what the idea is. The idea is this, colleagues: the person, for example from Haskovo, colleague Dobrev, who uses his car summer season, can buy a three-month or six-month bill. The person who does not use his car all year round may pay for a fee according to the actual use of his car. Because, as Minister Lilyana Pavlova said a few months ago from this platform and I think the lady was right: the wine is a cost-oriented service. Since it is a cost-oriented service and one person uses his car for several months or six months, why take away this opportunity to buy such a winery in Bulgaria? This reminds me, colleagues, about a number of topics that have been solved in Bulgaria, but have not been resolved since the first time. We had to submit similar proposals. Once they were rejected, second, third, fourth time until it happened. It's only a matter of time before it happens. Just because it's fair. Just because it's right. Think of these thousands of Bulgarians "about 2 million, perhaps, who are abroad. They come summer in Bulgaria. Why would we ask them to buy a one-year vintage? Why can't they buy a wine for the summer only for the period they are in Bulgaria? Why are we taking away that right of choice from them? And if a fee does not reflect the real cost, it is not cost-oriented, as the wine is supposed to be and does not reflect the real use, it is obtained that we take away the right of the Bulgarian citizens, which should not be the purpose of the Bulgarian Parliament. And once again, I ask you, colleagues: do not be annoyed that any other European country has acted smarter than us and has adopted better legislation before us. On the contrary, to take courageously and without worrying about the best European practices and apply them in Bulgaria. There's nothing scary about someone having thought of it before we did it in neighboring Romania, let's say. Don't be angry, there's nothing scary about it! Let's do it in Bulgaria! Because a colleague from GERB told me: why shouldn't the Bulgarians buy three months of wine? Because they're at the cost of the year, colleagues. And the point is gone. The meaning is gone. See what happens in neighbouring Romania: a three-month bill costs 13 euros and an annual 28 euros. That is, it makes sense and logic if you use your summer car, as happens in a number of places in Bulgaria, this is the kind of wine you buy. Moreover, nothing less than simple justice. Therefore, colleagues, although I am embarrassed by the fact that high-level stakeholders from the Road Infrastructure Agency should not be justified by the European directive, but should simply say that there are such practices and everything depends on the will and desire for justice of the Bulgarian Parliament. So, fellow Members, I hope and appeal to you to be reasonable, to be reasonable together, and to make a good decision today, a fair decision. Otherwise, tomorrow, none of you will be able to answer the question why in a number of countries consumers, citizens can buy wine according to their actual consumption and this cannot happen in Bulgaria. And once again, I stress: if you think that for 2016, it is too late for this decision to be adopted, we tend to do so from 2017. And we tend to, if you think it is more correct, not to be a six-month bill, but a quarterly one, but to give this opportunity and an option to the Bulgarian citizens. So I urge you, fellow Members, to do what is right and just.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. I understand that you are willing, eventually, if the bill between first and second reading is voted, to make the change in time. A line, fellow Members? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev. It's about the Haskovo region. Perhaps you can explain to us how the situation is. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I didn't understand why Haskovo was quoted. In my opinion, so that my colleague Martin Dimitrov can challenge my attention to listen to his arguments. I did it. I listened very well to the arguments. They sound very logical, but I have the following question to him in the form of a replica: did he examine the demand for two-month, three-month, six-month or ten-day wineries? Because this is the first time we've heard such a proposal. None of the consumers, industry organizations, ministries have identified this as a problem. Suddenly, in the National Assembly, we begin to discuss why there are no three-month or six-month wines. My question is: is there a study of how many people want to buy a six-month or ten-day or so that it turns out that we also introduce categories for six-month wine and oblige the state to print six-month wine, ten-day, one-month, and at one point we have sold two of the six-month wineries, and at the same time we have invested in printing them at the administrative expense of hundreds of thousands or millions of levs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u34	And it's about research for Bulgaria. Thank you. Second line? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u35	Mr. Chairman, because I heard the motives of...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u36	Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u37	... the colleague who said that, you see, from abroad come here Bulgarians to rest and somehow uncomfortable. Perhaps this study, which Mr. Dobrev said, should be made statistics on how many Bulgarians who come to rest, rest for six months to see who have the need to buy on this basis a six-month bill. Because that's the way the motives were. People come here on vacation, and they don't have a six-month bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Is there anyone who wants a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since colleagues before me and their lines have asked a few questions, I would like to ask Mr. Dimitrov: would you please compare the size of a six-month wine in Europe? Since your very proposal is to create such a six-month bill, at least I didn't see somewhere in a European country... There are motorcycles in Slovenia. I just want to know if you've studied such research, a comparison between six-month and one-year wines in Europe? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Mostly the desire to be facts-oriented. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u41	I thank my colleagues for the extremely constructive lines and the right questions they have asked. At first I was worried when my colleague Dobrev took the floor, not to say that in Haskovo they do not use wine stickers, but, of course, he asked the right and logical question what the demand would be. It was this question that the Road Infrastructure Agency had to answer, and such a study had to do, because if I did and did a sociology, whether on the Internet or elsewhere, and proved to you that there was such a demand, you would doubt how authentic this sociology is. The truth is that many people put, colleague Dobrev and colleague Lazarov, this issue. And the role of the Road Infrastructure Agency is precisely to do such research, and you will see that the demand for a bill to be three or six months old will be serious. It will not be less than 20 - 30% of the total demand for vintage. With such a prognosis, I would engage on the basis of questions to me. It should not have said that the directive was interfering with them because you see that this is not true and that it was limiting them, because this again you saw that it was not true, but had to engage in such research and present here a study that we all cannot fail to accept as authentic, that in the case of a possible search that they have registered, there is or there is no logic to introduce such a winery. But I assure you and it is a simple logic, honourable colleagues, that many people use their cars in Bulgaria only summer season. And I hope this debate will be reflected by the Bulgarian media, to ask you your voters who use their cars only summer season, how each of you will solve this problem and what they intend to do. There are many Bulgarians, I know even in Sofia, who use their car only the summer season, ladies and gentlemen only the summer season go out of town with it and the winter season use their car within the city. A lot of people have that kind of life. Regarding Mr. Lazarov's question. Bulgarians abroad, who are returning to Bulgaria, do not come back just for holidays. They are returning, colleague Lazarov, for example in Plovdiv region and across Bulgaria to see their relatives. And then they need a winepot for the period during which they are in Bulgaria. The period of several months during which they are in Bulgaria. And why are we taking away their right for this period of several months, which are in Bulgaria, to buy wine? So I accept your questions, they were right and cleverly put. They must be answered by the Road Infrastructure Agency. If you trust me to do a research on the Internet, I will also give you these results. But then you would say that this study was answered by too many Sofians, say, and you would want it to be nationally represented. So I am convinced that you understand that it is justice and that people pay according to their actual consumption. I believe, fellow Members, that you will support this argument and we will not have to offer this bill several times to get to the right decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov, and for your collegiate tone, too. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u43	Dear colleagues, we did not really understand how much and in which countries there are six-month wines. We heard about Slovenia and only the bikes, only the bikes in Slovenia, but you offer something else about the cars. You're saying from the stands that there's actually no research and we don't know if anyone's looking or if they're looking for these vintages. There's a week and a month at the moment. You propose to have for a longer period, for six months, for which we do not know what the demand is. You are proposing now that we adopt a Bill without having a preliminary analysis of what the impact assessment will be for this Bill. You know that according to good parliamentary practices before adopting a bill, we should have an assessment of its impact. This is rarely observed, but in this case does not mean that we should not follow it. Quite the opposite. Once you say there is no research and the Road Infrastructure Agency must do such research, with which I agree, let us wait to see what it is and if it proves that there is a need for six-month wines, when we examine why there are no six-month wines in the other countries around the world, and we have to and it turns out that the Bulgarian reality has a specific, which requires that there are six-month wines in Bulgaria, I am sure that our group will gladly support you. Don't get me wrong. I am not saying that your proposal should not be accepted, but that it should not be rushed by adopting a proposal for which we do not know what its effect will be. You mentioned the Bulgarians from abroad who were coming home to Bulgaria and when they came home, they started driving cars in exactly six months and did not want to buy wine for a whole year. Here the question arises whether all these Bulgarians have cars in Bulgaria, respectively do they maintain them with civil responsibility and all other requests of Bulgarian legislation. Secondly, how many of these examples are there when Bulgarians working abroad have six months' leave and return to Bulgaria in six months? It's more like they're back for two, three weeks, a month, and a month's worth of wine! Don't get us wrong, we don't mind, but we just want more solid evidence that in Bulgaria there has to be a six-month bill, that there is something specific that will help Bulgarian consumers save their expenses and spend their money more efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Peter Slavov's first line. Mr. Svilenski second line, Mr. Dimitrov third line. You have the floor, dear Mr. Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Dobrev, in fact empirical data for the search of such wineries I would say that there is, but when I paid attention to my colleague Dimitrov, it was nice to really say that the Road Infrastructure Agency did such research instead of going out with the blank answer that this was contrary to the directive. We saw it wasn't like that. What I propose and we can do it because, as you understand, the bill does not only concern wine, but a discriminatory rule is to adopt it at first reading and give a maximum period between the two readings. Then the Agency will step into its powers and come up with specific data on whether it is better to have a quarterly or a six-month bill. One of these two wineries will logically fill the gap that currently exists between the one month and the one-month vintage. Because I said in the beginning that there was empirical evidence of such a search? If you recall, at the end of last year, we did a good deed together with regard to the Insurance Code. There was then an unintentional provision which envisioned, at the time of the expiry of insurance, the liability of the vehicle to be deregistered automatically. Then together we adopted a norm that said that from the moment of the conclusion of the new insurance....................... he should automatically receive his registration. Then it was this bad norm in the Insurance Code that I received an extremely large number of people from abroad. This is what they said: We are going back to Bulgaria in the summer season as we work abroad under the situation. Don't understand by coming back here and staying three months! They come back repeatedly, they travel again, they come back again. In general, much of the summer season they spend here and enjoy their cars. It is logical to buy for the entire period a tart and consider that they have solved their problem and not at each return, every two weeks to buy a weekly wine and to put their windshield on the car as a wallpaper with weekly or monthly bottles. It seems to me that when we read the specifics of the huge number of our fellow citizens, compatriots who in recent years have forced economic circumstances to be abroad, to work there and to be far away from their loved ones, to look for opportunities to return here at any moment, but in practice, most of the time to spend abroad, to comply and give them this opportunity to choose.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The MP Mr. Svilensky has the opportunity for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a reply to Mr. Dobrev and ask him a question: Mr. Dobrev, when you are sincere, honest and when you really want analyses or data on how it will affect a law on society when you raise the price of wine from 60 to 150, this is the proposal, and you are making it 97 BGN, or when colleagues now offer to Bulgarian citizens a relief....................... whether it will be three or six months of wine, it will certainly be a relief for Bulgarian citizens, against the background that the income in Bulgaria is one of the lowest in the European Union and the prices of wine are one of the highest.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u48	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u49	On my fellow Members' proposal, I will make an additional statement. My question to you is: when are you really sincere when you raised the price of the wineries, or now when you want data from the Road Infrastructure Agency and I don't know who else? Thank you. [[Single applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u50	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Martin Dimitrov, you have the floor for the third line. You and Mr. Dobrev are basically changing roles.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Dobrev! This is precisely the idea of adopting a bill at first reading. Between first and second readings on the basis of the data that will be presented to us by the API at last, because they have long claimed that the directive has interfered with them, and you see that it does not interfere with them, we will make the best decision. It is a separate question whether to be a monthly, two-month, three-month or six-month bill. There are things, however, that are tranquility, Mr. Dobrev. It is clear that it is right. I would provoke you to do this. Ask GERB meeting in Haskovo if people want to have a three-month and six-month wine together. If less than 20% say yes, I'll just withdraw the bill. Ask them! Since I've known you for a long time, I know you won't lie after that, you'll come here and support the bill. Colleagues, however, there is one more important reason to support the Bill at first reading, because I know that in most cases you keep your word. There was a promise by GERB party that the 12-month bill would be valid for one calendar year, but alas, due to the many jobs and the many duties of Parliament, we failed to get to this issue. Our Bill gives you the opportunity between first and second reading this important issue to also be resolved the annual bill to be valid for twelve calendar months. Yes, and we have not proposed it, but by adopting at first reading a bill concerning wine, this will enable this important issue, on which there was a promise to be resolved, but I know how you keep your word and I make it easier for you in this case to fulfil this promise more quickly and honestly, in order for it to happen, it is good for our Bill to be supported at first reading. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is the logic of support at first reading. This is principled support for whether to have a tart with a different duration than what has been so far. Whether it is three or six months old, people who will do special research on the subject will be judged. We are now committed to supporting them if, for example, they say that the three-month period is better. However, there is something else important.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u52	Mr. Dimitrov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u53	The wine in Bulgaria has become twice as expensive as the one in Romania. It's twice as expensive right now! This is additional logic and reason to introduce a three-month or six-month bill. Given the high cost, fellow Members, this is once again a matter of simple justice. I urge you to do as your conscience dictates on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. You have forty-one seconds of your group. You can then extend the time if you wish. Mr. Dobrev, the doppelganger. There was a proposal for you to start with sociology.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u55	To withdraw the bill, to do a sociological survey.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u56	You have the floor, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u57	Thanks for the lines. I'll answer in their order. The only argument in the three lines that I kind of accept is the aesthetic argument that we don't stick the windshield as a wallpaper with four or five one-week wines, and instead we have the possibility of a three-month bill. Only, Mr. Slavov, I don't know if he's going to overwhelm the aesthetics in the thought of the Bulgarian or what costs him cheaper or more, because the one-month wine will cost cheaper than four weeks of wine. In this case, I understand the aesthetics, but I doubt it will happen exactly like this, and I agree that it is not beautiful to stick a lot of wine on the windshield. Regarding Mr. Svilensky's line, we love it very much here in the National Assembly to make populism. We're talking about a specific topic and someone comes out and says, "Why did you pick up the wine? The theme is not how much wine is worth and whether the price is increased or not, only here it gets a little bit like that fairy tale: Why are you beating black people? [[Radio, partial applause by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u58	The coloreds. The coloreds, I apologize, I hope I didn't offend anyone. Regarding Mr. Martin Dimitrov's lines, he basically says: "Yes, we don't have analyses, give Mr. Dobrev to hold a meeting in Haskovo and ask Haskovo if they want six-month wines. I have another question for him: Before you submit this bill, have you gathered in a meeting of Sofians from your constituency and asked them: "Do you want six-month wines?" [[Relations from the National Representative Martin Dimitrov.]] Honestly, did you or did you not collect them? So when you make an offer, my request is that you first do these good practices and show them, and when we see them and have the results of your meeting, we will immediately hold a meeting in Haskovo, and if they want them here, we will definitely support them. And with regard to your other argument: let's go through it now at first reading, we don't have any data, but API in the meantime will collect some data, you know, you yourself have spoken out of the stands that it's not good at first reading to accept something angro and then think about how to fix it. Moreover, here the essence of your proposal is to have six-month wines. How are we gonna fix this if it has to go away? We need to expose ourselves at second reading so that we reject the bill already adopted at first reading. The better practice, in my opinion, is to withdraw this Bill, to make our meetings in Sofia and in Haskovo, to ask people if they want, don't they, the Road Infrastructure Agency to do the research, to study the experience in other countries, because there are no six-months in the world there, except for the motorcycles in Slovenia, and if it turns out that there are six-month wineries in Bulgaria, to bring it back. By the way, if data comes out that it is necessary right in Bulgaria, and I will sign your proposal, we will submit it again and accept it with a clear conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We have learned that there will be a series of meetings in different cities. [[Radio.]] The honourable MP Mr. Enchev is willing to speak. [[Radio, GERB lines.]] Quiet, please! Please calm down in the hall! Mr. Enchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u60	By the standards of the speaker and the discontent in this House, I will now make a populist statement. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u61	I'll keep an eye on you. I hope you're not passing the limits. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u62	The debate to be held here is not whether to accept or not to accept the good proposal of Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov for a six-month vintage. Here the debate is conducted, it must be conducted and it must be said for the insanely high price of wine stickers, the brutally high price of wine stickers, which has been imposed here in this National Assembly by the executive power. Almost twice the price of wine stickers! Such a thing in the European Union, because you like to compare with the countries of the European Union, has never happened anywhere. [[GERB lines.]] I said almost twice, not twice. Brutal price hike, despite the protests of thousands of Bulgarian citizens. So the proposal from the reformist bloc is socially fair and must be accepted. And whoever votes against this proposal for a six-month wine charge, let him explain later to his constituents, to those who drive their cars, as I have said before, six months a year, in winter they hardly drive them, and, above all, for financial reasons, let him explain to his constituents that they are well financially. Furthermore, Mr. Slavov and Mr. Martin Dimitrov's argument that Bulgarian citizens abroad, when they come back here, would have problems is not valid because the problem is not with Bulgarian citizens abroad who have the standard and finances to pay the annual or quarterly sticker. The problem is the Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria, and these citizens who protested, I will tell you again, for one month and you did not hear them. Almost 100 leva. Guilty sticker in Bulgaria is so, even cheaper cost the wine sticker in Switzerland. You've been told several times. Do we have the standard of Switzerland? I firmly believe that this proposal must be adopted, moreover, that those of you who know European legislation, and this has already been said, the directive does not have a binding character. The directive has a wishful thinking. And since everyone here in the right and mostly in the middle of the room, you count as Europeans and this is in the name of your party, you are obliged as Europeans to support the proposal of Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov to introduce a six-month guilt sticker, which will be a breath of air for the Bulgarian citizens who cannot pay this impossible fee of almost 100 BGN. for wine stickers, because of which a taxi you know what abnormal thing has been happening in Bulgaria since the beginning of the transition, when the car cleaners were being stolen, now the front and side windows of the cars are breaking in order to detach the impossibly high price blame sticker. I put my money on your mind, on your European thinking, and I stress once again: the European Union directive does not have a binding character. Examples were given with countries such as Romania, where there is such a sticker. Once again I say to you: Bulgaria not Switzerland in the Balkans, but since in Switzerland the price of wine stickers is lower, will we be bigger Catholics than the pope and keep this high price?! Let the Bulgarian citizens in Bulgaria hear. In a moment, there will be a vote and one of you who voted against this proposal voted against its constituents in the poorest country in the European Union. Thank you for your attention. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Enchev, you've created an interest in the Chamber. - What's the line? I won't. Any further comments? Anyone? Mr. Svilensky. Dear Mr. Lazarov, if you wish, at the end of the debate you can take the floor to bring a little more expertise. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on the two proposed drafts the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will vote as follows. We will support the proposal of colleagues Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov because, honourable Members, when you propose reasonable proposals, when you make proposals that concern most of the Bulgarian citizens, we cannot fail to support you, unlike some of your other proposals that divide society. But in this case, you have our support. To the criticism that you did not have party meetings to collect sociology, I think that this practice would work in a democratic state where public opinion is really first examined, then the bills are adopted and then these bills are implemented. In Bulgaria, however, the main sociologist of the state takes attitude when they are accepted or not accepted. And the most important thing is to take his attitude of Prime Minister Borisov, because if he does not agree with what you propose, neither GERB meetings in Haskovo nor in Sofia nor in Stara Zagora matter. So take his attitude and I think this project will pass. Because if you don't, I don't think it makes any sense. Maybe just another song that was going to be created, in time there was one who stole my cleaning ladies and now maybe it's gonna be who stole my wine? Because really for BGN 97 and a year for BGN 150. Vinettes will happen exactly this.. smashing glass, of cars for the stealing of one of the tarts. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, we will support you because with the increase in the price of the wine that was made and the introduction with the previous change of the Law on the Roads of Tolls, Bulgaria will become perhaps one of the few countries, not to say the only one in which will be paid both wine and toll, that is, citizens will also pay for crossing highways and for passing on a second-class, third-class and fourth-class road network. But we will talk about this when society is surprised by the introduction of the system and its principle of action. On the second draft of Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs on the closure of Strategic Infrastructure Projects. My fellow Members, I will ask the same question here: when are you sincere in the motives you propose for closing this Company or what the Prime Minister said yesterday or that day in the studio of one of the TV stations that he closed an agency and fired three directors because of the fact that Highway Hemus was raised by 200 million. lv.? It's worth 200 million. BGN, because the project for the highway "Hemus" provides 140 km, for which reason these directors have to go, and together with them the whole Company. I want to ask you: when you raised the speed of the highways three years ago from 130 to 140 km, did you do it to make expensive highways to make highways of 200 million more expensive, so that today the Prime Minister can cancel them and the speed of the newly designed section of the highway is 120 km?! So are we going to change the Road Traffic Act, where we say what is the speed on the highways, or do we again have a gap between the Prime Minister and the GERB group that imported this Bill? Among other things, I am not sure that the opinion of the ministers directly concerned with this thing is positive, because this Company is a major beneficiary of the Transport Programme and the Transport Programme is fully monitored by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. And I ask: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Transport on this issue? In the Transport Committee, Minister Moskovski was not very pleasantly surprised by what was happening. My question is perhaps to Mr. Lazarov: where is the place of this Company? Should it be closed? And if it has to be to transport, why don't we move it there? On this bill, we will not support the proposal of our fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? There aren't any. Anyone else who wants to take the floor? I won't. Mr. Lazarov, would you like to make an explanation on both proposals? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with the questions Mr. Haytov asked me as Head of the Road Agency. I can assure you that the Road Infrastructure Agency has a long-standing experience, perhaps more than 130 years as the life of the Road Agency, in the field of design. One of the main activities of the Road Agency is in fact the preparation, preparation of technical projects for road infrastructure, which must be implemented subsequently by the builders. To Mr. Svilenski, I want to bring in a little expertise, given that when you talk about design speed, that automatically doesn't mean real operating speed. The design of motorways uses this concept of project speed. The maximum speed for which all highways in Bulgaria are designed, with the exception, is 120 km we are talking about existing ones. The design speed is an exponential function and passes about 30 km from the operating system. So assuming that we're going to design motorways for 140 km design speed, that means you have to increase, as people's chosen, the operating speed of about 170 km to travel on motorways. Absolutely unnecessary fancy performance based on the terrain, through which the highway passes The two concepts should not be mixed, they are very different, there is a very big difference between them. Regarding the National Company, Strategic Infrastructures. Until last year, and also this year, the Road Infrastructure Agency is a beneficiary of Operational Programme "Transport" with several sites, and only last year a large number of motorway sections were completed, which were financed precisely by this Programme. The Road Agency has a huge capacity of experts who have been involved in preparing and implementing such projects for more than six years and a large number of them have been successfully completed. I can say that the only beneficiary who has gained 100% of the grant under the Operational Programme. A few years ago, a decision was made about the existence of the National Company. At present, given that, as a beneficiary, the Agency remains with a smaller number of sites to manage under this Programme; given that the state administration is still on an administrative board, the existence of two parallel structures dealing with a close one, I would even say that the almost equal activity is at least not rational. To maintain two such companies, provided there is a state administration that has a built capacity that is indicative. I personally admire the decision that the Company "Infrastructural Sites" should be passed on to the Agency, and we are not talking about dismissal or discarding these people, rather than overflowing. Where there is duplication of functions, this should be deleted, i.e. there should not be two parallel infrastructures involved in such activity and find the best option for the activity, optimization, of the two structures to achieve the overall objective of completing the projects under the Operational Programme. These 35 people who are currently in the Agency, such as activity and capacity, have no problem dealing with the activity that can be transferred by the National Company. In terms of the six-month bill. Mr. Dobrev very correctly pointed out that throughout Europe a six-month wine is mainly for motorcycles. With us they are exempt from tolls, which means they move for free. From the analysis that we have done, I can say that there is no need for the introduction of a fee in respect of the motorcycles, we do not see the destructive action of these vehicles on the road infrastructure. And that the road infrastructure is not in good condition, we announce that, if not every day, it is almost monthly. In order to be brought to the expectations of each of us as a consumer, it is necessary to generate funds. The generation of funds, if we are as fair as possible, is only by road infrastructure users, i.e. through road charges. It is logical when the funds are short, because at present, before the increase in the price of wine stickers, the revenues in terms of wine fees, by gross talking, without deduction of social support charges, which are nearly 200 thousand as units, which generates around 20 million.. We generate gross revenue around 200 million. Only for the rehabilitation of the road network, which is in poor condition at the moment, according to the most economical estimates we have made, are needed in the order of about 3 billion. This automatically tells you about the period of over-exploitation life on a road floor for 10 years, we need to be able to repair with the 270 million we collect each year. So in no way will the two lines touch each other, but there will be a gap more and more. The six-month bill as a way of searching, to replicate Mr. Dimitrov, we never said that the directive forbids us. On the contrary, we are following the directive. We comply with the directive and our principle is to follow it. As Mr. Enchev said, it is recommended. Nevertheless, we strive to observe them, not to violate them. From this point of view, the search for the six-month wine, as Mr. Dobrev rightly said, will be very small, this is according to our studies, for the simple reason that the people who come home to the country and those who are for the summer is still the summer season is three months and not six in Bulgaria will strive to minimize their travel expenses. This is precisely why the weekly wineries and monthly wineries have been introduced. We are talking that the analysis, which was made by the Council of Dornis in 2004 when the wine sticker was introduced as a payment system, then recommended clearly and specifically what the principle of wine stickers as a duration was. I only accept, and I absolutely agree with Mr. Dimitrov, this is the decision of the government in principle, the introduction of the electronic wine to be from time to time from date to date is the duration of the purchased electronic wine. This will naturally be fulfilled when the electronic bill is put into effect. I appeal, mainly for the roads, the revenue generated is the most important. Examples were given with Switzerland. There's only a vintage there, but even if you walk into Switzerland for one day, you buy a one-year wine. There is no different sticker from the annual winemaker, and no one is saying that there is discrimination against users of the road network. In order to have good infrastructure, money is needed. And in order for there to be money, people who use the roads to be absolutely fair have to pay for their recovery otherwise they have nowhere to come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. You were able to make an explanation and now in the vote to make it informed. My fellow Members, I am closing the debate on the two PIDs. First, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, No 554-01-186, submitted by Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Vote 155 MPs: 66, against 32, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u68	My fellow Members, not all of them have been able to vote. People were always coming into the gym. I propose a re-voting procedure, and I hope this is not another example that will pass on the third time, on the third time, on the third draft bill, and it is not for other reasons, the arguments are clear, the logic you understand, so I call on you to vote on conscience and to make together a fair and good decision for Bulgarian citizens. Revoting procedure, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u69	We get it, Mr. Dimitrov. I will respect your wishes. Dear colleagues, we are re-voting the Roads Act, No 554-01-186, submitted by the gentlemen Slavov and Dimitrov. Vote 155 MPs: 64 against 36, abstention 55. The proposal is finally not accepted. We are voting for the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, 654-01-31, tabled by Irena Kotseva and a group of MPs. Vote 151 MPs: 120 against 28, abstention 3. The proposal has been accepted and this point has been passed. Procedure, Mrs. Kotseva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u70	Dear Mr. President, my proposal is to reduce the period between the first and second viewing of the bill that we have just adopted to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u71	A reverse opinion? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the procedural proposal made. They voted 143 MPs: 117, against 21, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. We are moving forward on the fourth point of the Programme, we voted to drop out, fifth and sixth respectively, first and second for Thursday. We move on, honourable Members, to item seven of the week's voting programme: PROJECT FOR THE PRE-COMMITMENT DECISION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE LEARNING OF ALL FACTS AND FACTS RELATED TO TRUTHS FOR THE INTERVERSION OF RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY IN THE INTERNAL POLICY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I remind you, honourable Members, that such a decision was taken on 19 February 2016, which was published in the Official Journal of the European Union. There has been a proposal from the President of the Commission Mr. Radev and his colleagues: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we are submitting a draft decision to suspend the existence of the Temporary Committee for the Study of all facts and circumstances relating to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the internal policy of the Republic of Bulgaria with reasons for it. We ask the draft decision to be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established procedure. Based on that, we're looking at it. Mr. Radev, you have the opportunity as President of the Commission to argue your proposal and to read the proposed solution. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will give you the reasons: I'm sorry. I'm to the Draft Decision on the suspension of the existence of the Temporary Commission for the Study of All Facts and Circumstances relating to the Claims of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the Internal Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria With the establishment of the Temporary Commission, we, the majority of the MPs, responded to the increased interest and the awakened concern in the Bulgarian society from the alleged claims of officials of the Republic of Turkey in the domestic political life of our country, as well as to the alleged and persistently spread claims that certain Bulgarian political parties systematically promote in the social and political life of our country the interests of the Russian Federation and have put themselves in the service of this country. We believe that with the act establishing the Temporary Commission by the highest legislative body of our country, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, the MPs gave a clear signal and a clear signal to the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation that we find it extremely unacceptable any attempts at foreign interference in our country's domestic policy. We have witnessed and are well aware of the actions of the diplomatic authorities both by the Russian Federation and by the Republic of Turkey, as well as the actions of the official representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of our country. These actions largely respond to some of the allegations mentioned in the importers' motives in the establishment of the Temporary Commission. We also witnessed the stated position of the executive authority of the Republic of Bulgaria on the active activity and the efforts made to maintain and improve bilateral relations with the Republic of Turkey and with the Russian Federation during a complicated and rapidly changing security environment in the region and the world. Given what has been said so far, as well as our desire to preserve the future prospects for mutually beneficial cooperation with the Republic of Turkey and the Russian Federation, we believe that the national interests of the Republic of Bulgaria will be better protected if we adopt a decision to suspend the existence of the Temporary Commission. Together with the offer of such a solution, we agree that the necessary protection of the sovereignty and independence of our country, as well as the protection from any interference in our domestic political life, is part of the work of the relevant authorities of the state. We have also seen concrete measures already taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other state authorities to limit and neutralise such interference. We are convinced that the state authorities responsible for national security have the necessary capacity to monitor, analyse and assess attempts to intervene externally in the country's internal policy, as well as to inform the government quickly and promptly. Control of these processes is largely an inherent part of the activities of the Permanent Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy. In this sense, we believe that after adopting the decision to suspend the existence of the Temporary Committee, the Committee on Foreign Policy could, if necessary, successfully continue the task of clarifying existing or new facts and circumstances relating to the claims of foreign intervention of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. And Project for ? RESPONSIBILITY? suspending the existence of the Temporary Committee to investigate all facts and circumstances relating to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Stops the existence of the Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u73	And thank you, Mr. Radev. Dear colleagues, the debate is open. There are already two MPs enrolled, there are three hands raised by the group of BSP LB. First in writing, Mr. Velizar Enchev made a request in a previous statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u74	Honourable Members, I hold in my hand a decision to terminate the existence of the Temporary Commission to examine all the facts and circumstances relating to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in our internal affairs. When I was on this platform two weeks ago and declared myself against the creation of this Commission, which puts on an impossible plane our liberator from five centuries of Turkish servitude Russia, the Russian Empire, and our five-century enslaver Turkey, you in the middle of the hall, from GERB party, not only did you apostrophy me, but you also gave insulting lines. Now, however, honourable colleagues of GERB party, it is time to take your words back and offer your apologies here, on this stand to those MPs who spoke the truth to you, with which truth not only agreed, but supported it your principal or put it in an understandable language. I don't expect an apology from you, but I keep it in the next five minutes when I'm gonna talk, you keep your mouth shut and you're gonna be guilty to bow your heads! [[Strong noise and calls from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u75	I'm gonna have to ask you, no dialogue! No dialogue with the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u76	And guiltyly bow your heads before those who spoke the truth to you, and who truth is now a draft decision and will be accepted, thank God. Because you forcefully imposed on this National Assembly a decision which is a disgrace to this Parliament. First, there is not a single fact of interference in the internal affairs of Bulgaria of the Russian Federation, but there are therefore dozens of facts about the intervention of the Turkish ambassador in Bulgaria and the two general consuls in Burgas and in Plovdiv. Therefore, this declaration, which you have adopted, is a vicious document, a responsibility for which, of course, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, which is the initiator for the introduction of this declaration, and also the MPs who supported this vicious Decision, are primarily responsible. Secondly, the decision for early termination of the work of this Commission is made without one, even one meeting of this Commission, to invite representatives of the secret services in Bulgaria, the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service, the SANS, that is, once again shows, this is the second proof that this Commission was created in violation of political morality. Thirdly, and perhaps the most scandalous public intervention by the Prime Minister, who ordered you to close this Commission before the eyes of the nation, is another blow to parliamentaryism in Bulgaria and ugly evidence of a dictatorship imposed by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u77	Please stop with the...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u78	A dictatorship that contradicts the Constitution, honourable colleagues and Mr. Chairman, as the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria states that the legislative body is the National Assembly, not the Prime Minister and the head of the executive power. Exactly, by the way, a year ago, exactly one year ago this Chamber obeyed the prime minister's order, when we adopted a declaration on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the genocide against the Armenian people, when Prime Minister Borisov came here in Parliament, and ordered you, honourable colleagues from GERB, to adopt a text different from that which the National Assembly had already approved. Today, at the beginning of the meeting, we paid tribute to the victims of the terrorist acts in Brussels, but just today I must remind you that it is 13 years since the beginning of the Iraqi War and, in fact, if there is to be a parliamentary committee, a temporary, extraordinary or I do not know what it should be, not for Turkey's intervention in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, but for an extraordinary parliamentary commission similar to the Chilcott Commission in Britain, which has already been investigating the circumstances that have led to Britain's intervention in the British-American coalition for the invasion of Iraq in violation of international law. There is every opportunity for the Chilcott Commission to condemn former Prime Minister Tony Blair because of this aggression, carried out with the decent preposition, fully invented, for the existence of chemical reserves in Saddam Hussein's arsenals. There are no innocents in this room, by the way. Both on the left and on the right 13 years ago in May 2003 you supported the sending of a Bulgarian military contingent to Iraq, so such a commission should be set up and not a Commission to investigate the circumstances of allegations, notice this about the intervention in the internal affairs of Russia and the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, in the coming days, honourable Members, I use the occasion that this Commission, thank God, is being called up today, I will propose the establishment of a Temporary Commission to investigate all the circumstances that led to Bulgaria's involvement in the dirty Iraqi war to investigate how the MPs voted and what measures the executive took to support an internationally legitimate military operation that is at the heart of today's terrorist acts in Brussels and Paris and, God forbid, in any other place on the European continent. Finally, I will finish with what I started with - you from DPS in the first place, GERB, the Reformation Bloc, ABB and the Patriotic Front - have sinned deeply and cruelly with the creation of the Commission - Russia - Turkey - and that is why you must go out on this stand and repent and implement, of course, the directive of your Prime Minister Boyko Metodiev Borisov. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I look forward to your public repentance, as your public disgrace is already present. I'm expecting your lines, of course, to get the back of my head. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u79	I won't! I won't!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u80	Is there still a line, fellow Members? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Enchev, I would like to make it perfectly clear from your words that ABB has supported the Project for the establishment of such a temporary committee of inquiry. We argued from the very beginning that the establishment of such a commission is an absolute paradox, given that this type of investigation stems from the prerogatives of the executive authority. I am referring to the Prime Minister, the Foreign Ministry, the Interior Ministry, specialized services. And here again I would like to raise the question that ABB did not support the creation of such a Project for a solution. On the other hand, we are collaborators of the draft decision to close the Commission in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u82	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, but only if you intend to apologize to ABB. [[Laughter and raging]] Not to extend international law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u83	I apologize to my colleagues at the ABB. This was a lapsus because I made a mechanical connection with the position of the Head of State, then Georgi Parvanov, on the issue of the Iraqi war, so I offer my apologies to my colleagues at the ABB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u84	Thank you, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u85	However, I do not withdraw my words with regard to the other parliamentary groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u86	Thank you, Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u87	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u88	Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, please, this is not the first time this has happened to be, first of all, sprayed obvious lies. Secondly, to address MPs and whole parliamentary groups in such a way and with inappropriate expressions for this plenary, I find it highly incorrect. Please don't let emotional instability find its expression in this tribune. Keep an eye out for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u90	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. I accept your note. I didn't interrupt Mr. Enchev in the name of kindness. For a statement there is the word "Iskren Veselinov," Patriotic Front. After him, Tasco Ermenkov "BSP left Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The patriotic front will not support the submitted draft decision. Our representatives at the Commission meeting have set out their motives, and some of them I will share with you. First of all, indeed, this Commission, in the manner of formulating its name and its task, suggested the creation of a foreign policy conflict. This is perhaps the only founder argument of colleagues who want her disbandment. I dare remind you that the Patriotic Front raised this question at the time of the Commission's adoption. We said it was ridiculous when we talked about interference in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, to talk about only two countries, to personify them. Our proposal then was to extend the scope of the Commission's work, because: why Turkey and not, say, Saudi Arabia, why Russia and not the United States?! If there is such interference in our internal affairs, it is unlawful and obviously against the interests of Bulgaria, and should be exposed to any person who has such interference. Of course, this defect is corrected yet and at the end of the speech I will propose a draft decision that will correct it without erasing the existence of the Commission, because, I think, it is very important and gives a tone to the emancipation of the Bulgarian foreign policy by big brothers something that is important even at a purely symbolic level. I will only say three reasons why it is wrong to dissolve this Commission now. The first is because Bulgaria is a parliamentary republic and Parliament has decided so. For me, it is too strange for the Commission to gather in one sitting just to decide that it will be self-deprecating due to some circumstances. It should work, even if there is such a view among its members, at least until Parliament decides on their opinion. Moreover, it somehow strangely binds the change of this opinion to the Prime Minister's appearances, which should be more subordinate to the National Assembly and to execute its decisions than to set a tone. The second important reason is that Bulgaria is part of Europe. We are the border of Europe and we cannot allow ourselves to be the weakest link in the European Union. We cannot have parties or politicians controlled remotely by Ankara, by an Islamist and neo-Osmanist government, which is also a threat to security in the Middle East, as we know, because the conflict in Syria is a 50% conflict conducted by Turkey. At the same time, it is the power that wants to hold the lock with immigrants and blackmail Europe in one situation or another. This neo-Osmanist and Islamist Turkey has its metastases in Bulgaria. Literally months ago, a Bulgarian politician was hiding in the Turkish Embassy; Ambassador Gokce, who has not yet been recalled, and other diplomatic officials appeared as cadets in an alleged Bulgarian party. Are we supposed to forget this?! Do we have to ignore these facts in some way?! The ambassador is still an ambassador. It seems that the executive does not have the will to ask for his recall, and I think that Parliament could have its activity in that direction. Moreover, we literally heard the Prime Minister a few days ago that the Turkish prime minister lobbied for Mr. Mestan's participation in the country's next government. This is also an interesting fact that the Commission should deal with, Mr. Borisov to share it with her. I remember a few months ago, when we insisted on the urgent construction of the fence along the Turkish border, some of our colleagues hysterically opposed this and explained how there should be no borders in Europe. I ask myself today: why was this hysteria and did they not carry out another's task to make our border defenceless and to be dependent solely on the good will of our neighbours, who, again I say, hold the door with refugees and could use this means of pressure? In fact, Europe must cease to be deceived and we, as Europeans, should perhaps give a tone in this direction,................................... and not allow foreign governments to influence the political processes in it. Also an important aspect is the Muslim religion and what is happening in it. Those thirty people from Dianatta Turkish officials who are employees, I say again, to an increasingly Islamic country where they return the burkas, where the secular state is beginning to suffer processes of decline.. this could also be the subject of an investigation by this Commission. Here we go from foreign policy to religion. The third aspect is the media. We have media that openly promote foreign pro-government positions. This is where the Media Commission should be concerned, that is, we have an interdisciplinary nature of the work of the Commission, which is a separate Commission, which is difficult to do for foreign policy... All this leads us not to support the proposal to end the Commission's activities. Let's cut to the chase. Let's do our job and show the will that in the internal affairs of Bulgaria no neighbor and no great power should have the right to interfere, and there would be a reaction if they did. The draft decision that we are proposing is in two points. First, the Temporary Commission to be renamed and instead of the current name, to receive the name: Temporary Commission to investigate all the facts and circumstances related to the claims of other countries to intervene in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. To change point one of the Decision, where a Temporary Commission is set up to examine all the facts and circumstances related to the claims of other countries to intervene in the internal affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u93	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Veselinov, I take the opportunity to give you a reply with the question: did you know that there are institutions in Bulgaria that are involved and have a commitment to work on everything that you propose to examine and work by the Temporary Commission? There is a government for which you voted to be with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov. You can use parliamentary practice to ask how the institutions led by the government of Boyko Borisov are working on all the issues you are trying to address as a commitment of a parliamentary committee. This is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and should not be avoided from the responsibility of the executive that you support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u95	Dear colleague, I know there are institutions. These institutions have had them for a quarter of a century, but this has not prevented the growing influence of our neighbouring countries in Bulgarian political life and, unfortunately, in Bulgarian religions. It is obvious that there are institutions that are part of the executive power, from which we will request information and make them do their work, as I believe it is worthy of sovereign and independent Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The word for speech is the national representative Tasco Ermenkov of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A little revision of February 19, 2016, when I would like to start with this, I voted against the creation of this Commission. I am going to read you something that I then said from the parliamentary tribune - a sample of the shorthand: At the moment we are witnessing a policy of turning Bulgaria into a more and more prime minister republic, where the word of the Prime Minister is more than the word of the Commission for Protection of Competition, from administrative courts; where he allows himself to stop orders; where he does everything that is beautiful, even occasionally listens to what they speak from London. In the meantime, I am opening a clamp outside the stenogram. In the meantime, the scandalous behaviour of the prime minister with regard to the Commission for Protection of Competition and the termination of this procedure on its express order. You have even been given orders to close down the Commission, which you are currently very strongly defending that it must be closed down. I continue with the sample of the shorthand: 'Cause it is the prime minister who should be in charge of the National Assembly, so I voted against the creation of this Commission, is there, or is there no interference in the internal affairs, as an executive officer. He should be called here if there is anything and listen to what, why, and how, if there is such an intervention. Colleagues, you then went on your way to wash the hands of executive power and to make commitments that had nothing to do with parliamentaryism. Things that in any normal parliamentary state will laugh at you at the so-called separation of powers, which we have been claiming to live for 26 years, we, as Parliament, are taking over functions of the executive power. I have heard in the motives that we want to close the Commission because we would have better protected the interests of Bulgaria. Colleagues, on 19 February 2016, we created a Commission so that we can protect them well, and now we are shutting it down so that we can even better protect them again. This schizophrenic behaviour, in my opinion, will not lead to a good end either the parliamentary groups that supported this Commission in their large majority or the state. In my opinion today, here in Bulgaria, we once again show that Parliament no one is there for nothing. There is a prime minister who decides everything! If you intend to continue in your government and in your parliamentaryism, I have a proposal on the substance: the agenda and problems that are submitted to the National Assembly for discussion, to be accompanied each time by a reference or resolution by the Prime Minister, agreed, or disagreed to know what to do. Otherwise, we're wasting our time! We set up committees, then it turns out that we didn't create them properly, because the Prime Minister didn't like something. We're having discussions, then we're giving them up because the Prime Minister didn't like it. Then let's call it here at the beginning and set the agenda: today on the first item you will vote like this, the second one like this. We'll know what to do, and we won't waste any government resources. Colleagues, then I finished my speech in one sentence, which is unpleasant, so I will finish today. I repeat it: "What is happening right now is once again turning us into toilet paper. I don't want to use the word "useful" because it sounds very rude, but that's what happens. I then voted against this Commission. I will not participate in this farce today. [[Reply.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u98	First line? I won't. For a statement there is the popular representative Valeri Jablyanov from BSP LB.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! There are hardly any more meetings in this Chamber that have seen and come into a more ridiculous situation. I am really uncomfortable and, to some extent, quite conscientious to my fellow Members of the majority who supported this decision. I express from the stands my sincere regrets and condolences to you. I would like to say something that I also said in the Commission's vote. Dear colleagues, we are in the National Assembly to vote on our decisions. Use your own potential and your own will! I believe that we are all the highest political authority of the Republic. The situation we are in today, and we, even though I voted against it, will still vote against the creation of the Commission because I am convinced of the stupidity of this proposal, but why do we have to stamp it today with the heavy seal of parliament? The colleagues before me have raised the issue of the defective way in which we make decisions and especially in the field of foreign policy, because it is a foreign policy blunder, but this gaffe is not self-sufficient. At the moment, the European Union's foreign policy, as did the Prime Minister yesterday, noted somewhere in his statement, is a complete failure! Well, I'm surprised at him! Doesn't he realize that this is a complete failure of his foreign policy?! Do we not have the awareness that there must be some corrective to these failures that have currently brought Bulgaria to the wall? There is hardly a country in the European Union in a worse situation. Bulgaria was sold with a single contract signed by the European Union and Turkey a week ago, and our National Assembly is silent. I don't want to comment on it from the Foreign Office. There are a number of questions asked, the Minister finds time to come once every three months to answer questions with a very large statute of limitations. If we do not have the awareness and understanding that foreign policy is currently crucial for Bulgaria, others are far away. There's a cordon in Central Europe. Unfortunately, we are in the cordon of the first line and every foreign policy step must be measured. I welcome the Prime Minister's decision to call on you to repeal the Commission. It really was a stupid thing, of course, realized by him the next day. But why do we have to go after every stupid, obvious nonsense? I think this is a lesson for the majority. It's a lesson I hope you'll read, understand, write it down. As they say, the Lord bless him to give him this National Assembly! Long years from now, this will be a guiding star in every decision here. This is an outrage, a political blunder of a fundamental nature, honourable Members. Political fuck-up! If you think it will not cost you public support, if you think that this cannot be noticed by the Bulgarian society, this helplessness, this contradiction, this ignorance of what to do in this situation and that you have left Bulgaria to be worn like a bulging leaf of the wind in the fog of Euro-Atlantic values, without knowing where to put it and it is written on your account. Know it and remember it! You don't have to repent. I don't share one of the speeches here. What penance, what penance? This is about politics, rationalism, a tresa approach that is absent. You're done talking about values. That needs to be understood. There are no values, there are interests first, second and third, the interests of individual countries in the European Union and they protect them by all means. It turns out that the only country without interests at the moment is Bulgaria or it cannot formulate its interests, or they are the result of the daily, evening and annual whims of the Prime Minister. This is the main risk we face. Ms. Kuneva approves of the political agreement with Turkey, Mr. Foreign Minister is not sure whether we approve and we approve in two weeks. This is Bulgaria's foreign policy situation at the moment. Even the government doesn't know what they're doing. Parliament doesn't know what it's doing. And you expect this thing to give birth to something positive?! It's not gonna work, fellow Members. We are in a favorable position as an opposition. We can criticize, ironically, mock, right? But it's not good to do that to someone's mistakes, especially when they're dealing with the state. I don't want to get into that position, and I'm saying it with the full concern of what we need to have here as a common position. Let us not be such prognostics, but let us be clear that even more difficult times are ahead for Europe. Why does anyone think that with what we see yesterday in Brussels, this story will end? It's not gonna end! She's starting. And when we create committees, we write declarations, greetings and we rule on foreign policy issues, I suggest that there should be a broad interparty, interparliamentary dialogue in order to have the right decisions, a wide dialogue in the committees, between the parliamentary groups, between the parties. There's no one who's God and knows what's gonna happen in two weeks. And when we're guided by one person's decisions, we've come up with two national catastrophes. This is the place to have a policy correction. The truth has to come out here because executive officials carry the files from one desk to the other, and that ends it. We all know that very well. I will therefore vote for the closure of this Commission, as I voted against its creation. I assume you will support your own proposal submitted by Mr. Radev. As a finale: let us, in the future, when we talk to each other here and when it is obvious that it is not the stand to be used for some cheap propaganda, but it is a matter of thinking about political decisions, of treating the respective well-meaning, good faith, and of trying to listen to the opposition, because this is the place and role of the opposition, when it says something, to be heard. And the government, if they want to take it into account. There are times when what the opposition says is significantly more important than what Brussels says. If we can figure this thing out, it'll make it easier for us to move forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. First line? I won't. The last speech before the holiday has the floor of the people representative Georgi Bozhinov from BSP left Bulgaria. Are there any other speeches besides Yanaki Stoilov? There's Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u102	Continue, please, the time of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u103	I'll speak briefly. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the situation we are in is a mess. The mistake is obvious. The bad news is that it is systemic and repeats itself when no serious arguments are made on conjunctural grounds important decisions are made. I opposed the creation of such a Commission with such an object and such a title. If you remember, not one of the previous speakers, it was my proposal, which was voted on and rejected by the Chamber, if there would be such a Commission, it would not point to specific countries, but the subject and title would be for the possible intervention of other countries in the internal affairs of Bulgaria. The negotiating colleagues who claimed this authorship had another idea to be about Russia, Turkey and other countries. This is a general and unacceptable other situation. The question is whether to exploit this embarrassing situation and blame colleagues or think about it because smart people acknowledge their mistakes and correct themselves. Let us draw from this extremely unpleasant situation a conclusion for ourselves and overcome this type of decision, because in this tribune, the real tears of a man who, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Solomon Passy is said to be campaigning that if we do not support Bulgaria's involvement in the coalition of those who want to intervene in Iraq within minutes, the weapon that is there will destroy humanity. The heartfelt tears of a man who was lying to us at that moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u104	Now that's a little far-fetched.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u105	What's so far-fetched that there's a gun in there? [[Relations from the National Representative Borislav Veliev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u106	I have a request, Mr. Veliv, don't engage in dialogue. You're entitled to a line after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u107	Okay, the heartfelt tears of an enemy of truth, if that's how you accept it. [[Relations from the National Representative Borislav Veliev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u108	Mr. Bozhinoff, please, is entitled to a line, if there's a wish...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u109	Don't let the professor replicate me. It is my deep belief that he knew that there was no weapon there and failed the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues who submitted this proposal knew that data could not be found about Russia conducting Ahmed Dogan, but they made this proposal to prove that it was gone, but the price is high, colleagues, and it cannot, when deciding on konncture, party or personal interests, engage the state and confront it to great forces like those you mention. Therefore, as I recall my negative opinion, I will now vote against the closure of this Commission, because I also said then that it will come to nothing, and even if it comes to something, nothing will be said of what we have come to. It was pointless, it became meaningless, and it led us to this embarrassing situation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u110	Thank you, Mr. Bojinov. Mr. Veliv, do you have a line? No. Another line? I can't see. Dear colleagues, it's 11:30 sharp. At 12:00, we continue the plenary day. Take a break. Thirty minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u111	Dear colleagues, we are continuing the plenary day. For the next speech is the word of the people's representative Atanas Atanasov of the Reformation bloc. [[Noise and lines.]] So far, BSP LB has spoken four people, so I propose that the parliamentary groups take turns. Until now Tasco Ermenkov, Valeri Zablyanov, Georgi Bojinov, spoke. Next up is Yanaki Stoilov. Let's alternate groups. The Quaestors, please go through the rooms of the parliamentary groups, because there will be a vote soon. Here you go, General. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u112	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I will personally support this Project for a solution. I hope that our colleagues in the Reformation bloc will also support it, because we were against the creation of this Commission at all. As you know, we have not proposed our representatives in the composition of the Commission. I don't want to repeat the arguments. Here's the thing. I do not agree with the reasons put forward, because, in practice, the creation of the Commission, and now, at its closure, the real motives for this action of Parliament were not mentioned. I do not see any representatives of the DPS in plenary, nor are they concerned about this, and they were the initiators for the creation of the Commission. Those who came to their senses then, excuse the expression, to support the creation of this Commission, must pour ashes on their head because Parliament entered into a scheme to deal with domestic party squabbles in a political party. The Commission was practically set up for this. If the Russian Federation were absent in the title of the Commission and its subject matter, I am sure that the Commission with an aplomb would also be supported from the left. Because of the involvement of the Russian Federation, BSP ignited from the left. However, if we need to examine the intervention of the internal affairs of Bulgaria, we must surely leave Count Ignatiev, go through the so-called September Uprising, during the attack in the church of St. Nedelya, during the declaration of war by the Soviet Union in September 1944 of Bulgaria, through the Zadunai's defeats, through the sixteenth republic and so on. That's why these things happen. However, the big problem is that I agree with the speeches before me that when Parliament does not agree with the Prime Minister, then it is necessary to change its decisions. This has happened, and I therefore disagree with those motives. In practice, a statement by the Prime Minister reverses the moods in parliament and cancels solutions, whether adequate or inadequate, and this was an inadequate decision of the Bulgarian Parliament because there are two important circumstances that need to be mentioned. Firstly, there are two specialized permanent committees of parliament that should be dealing with this topic, not only the Foreign Commission, where you address this problem, but also the Commission, which exercises control over the services, the Internal Commission and so on. In this order, there should be constant parliamentary control over the actions of the executive in this area. Then it may be decided that the ongoing committees are not doing their job and therefore to set up an emergency committee. This one, first. Second, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria............................................................................. 105, para. 2 of the current Constitution, the Council of Ministers, that is, the executive power is the one responsible for ensuring public order and security in the country. The ongoing committees should monitor and not only monitor, but also control the activities of the specialized bodies of the executive for the protection of national security, to counter foreign forces acting on Bulgarian territory. Otherwise, the whole story was that a politician went to an embassy and was taken away from him. This issue should be addressed in the specialised committees. I've offered it several times, but I don't hear this thing why these actions were carried out. Otherwise, if we start to observe which politicians and which parliamentarians go to which embassies, I don't know how many committees we have to set up?! Is it against the law to go to foreign embassies? If data is collected, and not only data, but evidence that someone is acting against the interests of Bulgaria and is put at the service of a foreign country, there is a number of evidence collected and provided to the prosecution for criminal liability under Chapter One of the Penal Code. But someone must have the courage to do so if there is such evidence! With regard to some illegal acts of foreign diplomats in Bulgaria, there is also a number of things to be done. We see that the Foreign Ministry has taken some action in this direction. I will support the decision to close this Commission, but I think we should be frank when we state the reasons for one or another parliamentary action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u113	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. A line? I won't. There is a word for speech by the national representative Stanislav Stanilov of the Parliamentary Group of Ataka. Here you go, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u114	We voted against this Commission and not for other reasons, but for the sole reason that we cannot sanction, in the sense of fixing only these two countries, but should be investigated by one parliamentary committee the intervention of all foreign countries in the internal affairs of Bulgaria, including the foreign affairs of Bulgaria, during these past 25 years of the liberal revolution, which has not ceased. We have classic cases where foreign ambassadors have interfered with the case of Sofia Water. We have classic cases where foreign organizations and foreign structures have intervened officially. We have a decision of the National Assembly, for example, the first discussion and adoption for sale of Bulgarian land to foreigners. Everyone remembers that thing. We have cases where ambassadors made phone calls and intervened in a court-martial. It is not only the ambassadors of these two mentioned countries, although I do not remember one of them, but the other ambassadors and the Germans intervened, and the English intervened, and the French intervened even in a decision of the prosecution. All this should be investigated by a committee in order to come to light, on the surface this stubborn Byzantine stench, as the poet said, the classic 130 years ago. This thing can be investigated in order to come to light the undeniable fact that the Bulgarian political class benefits from the services of these embassies, these countries and these countries benefit from these services. If we want to know the truth about the trends in Bulgaria's internal development, about its place in geopolitics, we must make this committee. As far as I know, that is the proposal of the Patriotic Front colleagues, which we may also support. That's what I can tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u115	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. A line? I can't see. The Vice-President of the National Assembly has the floor for a speech. "The People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the previous discussion, when the creation of the Commission was discussed, I briefly had the opportunity to express my attitude. I voted against the creation of such a Commission as an action which does not correspond in terms of possible achievable objectives which have been formulated as the task of this Commission. Today, some of the initiators of this Commission propose that it be terminated before it has completed its tasks and almost without doing any work. In politics, it is not unacceptable to change positions that are expressed. The point is, however, that when such a change occurs so quickly, it means that one or the other decision, which was softer, was wrong. Even the fact that the initiator of this closure is the person you referred to as President of the Commission is also a signal that you have not seriously reconsidered your actions. Because each Member of the National Assembly and even more so, those entrusted with additional responsibilities must also have a certain space of their will and conviction in order to ensure that we represent something beyond that they represent only their guides. In addition, we should note that in Bulgaria in many cases the positions of politicians change not because there has been a drastic change in public opinion or the conditions that impose these amendments, but simply because it is most convenient to move along the course of events, to receive pats, but in many cases rises or other benefits and this further degrades political life. I say this without going back and noticing that some of the problems that have been raised in the discussion in the creation of the Commission are real. Even today, it should not be considered that the closure of the Commission means that these problems have dropped out. Therefore, it is the permanent committees of the National Assembly that must, according to their competence, continue to put some of the issues which have sparked the initiative to set up the Commission. I am taking this opportunity to announce our initiative on the forthcoming closure of the Commission. We propose to hold a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy at which to make a hearing of the Prime Minister for the meeting he held in mid-December with the participation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey and the then head of a parliamentary group. At this meeting there are most likely issues of an internal political nature that relate to the management of Bulgaria and we would like to hear what these important topics are - foreign policy and domestic policy, which have been discussed at this meeting. Therefore, we will turn around and I call on the ruling majority groups here to engage their representatives in the Commission, so that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when this initiative is supported by the necessary number of MPs, it can be carried out within the Commission. This would show a serious and consistent attitude towards the subject raised. If we do not receive sufficient support for the implementation of this initiative, it would mean that both the creation and the closure of the Commission pursue some conjunctural or at least incomplete objectives and aim to cover up certain real relationships that develop both in the country and between Bulgaria and countries with which we naturally maintain and develop diplomatic relations. In conclusion, as you have heard, some of the MPs from the BSP group left Bulgaria will not participate in this vote, because they want to show the way in which the Bulgarian Parliament is used and the solution of foreign policy issues should be at least as serious or as serious as the problems of free camping are solved. But as a whole, the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria will support the Commission's closure project on the stated reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u117	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. A line? I can't see. For speech there is the word of the people representative Valentin Radev. Are there any other colleagues to comment on? I won't. This will be the last speech before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have always thought that while reading the reasons, and I have tried expressively, most of you, especially on the left side of the Chamber, have heard them carefully. Turns out it wasn't. And I'll give you a few examples, so I took the floor. Even a little emotionally to tell you that from so many things there must have been arguments that were in a good direction, there must have been many truths that were said, but politicians with such a great experience not to see what was written in the second paragraph, and I think very important that Bulgaria for the first time, perhaps for 70 years a history from World War II has allowed itself to point out to such significant forces as Turkey, like Russia, and perhaps others with this sign with the creation of the Commission, that we will not allow internal affairs to interfere. No one saw it, no one admired it. Well, I didn't like that! Somehow that seemed to me to have been missed, and that was the motive. And stop telling us that the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister's Republic, and he had told us. Well, the prime minister as head of the executive has seen something positive that this Commission, apart from giving a sign from this place from the highest political position in the country, has allowed these countries... Let me ask you, we were going to be the 16th Republic, did anyone say anything about this intervention then? You didn't say anything like that. [[Private applause from GERB.]] I can also point to the government of Ivan Kostov and all governments after that. I don't remember at least, correct me, if I'm wrong, if someone has reached out of this place and made a sign to someone, let's not be great, to another country: Please don't interfere, we have national interests, national security and self-esteem that needs to be protected from other interventions. Nobody! GERB only allowed themselves to do so, and I say and believe, although let me remind you that I am not one of the importers, even though I am the President of the Commission, but this sign was enough in my opinion. The Prime Minister said: "Well, stop a little, the sign was given, there were reactions on both sides, our diplomacy also made signs. That's enough. What did you not like that he told us? And we already believed that at least those who dealt directly with the Commission. Which of these things don't you like? Something positive for the state and we are doing it immediately, and I am stopping the work of the Commission. In my opinion, this is the important thing and this should have been appreciated and appreciated, I suppose, by those who do not mean evil to their country. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u119	Thank you, Mr. Radev. First line? National Representative Atanas Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Radev, I take the floor for a reply, first of all, on one specific question, because you mentioned Ivan Kostov's government to tell you that you are wrong. Secondly, to reiterate my point that the reasons you are pointing out for the closure of the Commission do not correspond to the reality. On the subject. I would like to remind you from the highest political tribune in Bulgaria that in the spring of 2001 the government of Ivan Kostov announced as persona non grata three Russian diplomats in Bulgaria. " Boris Smirnov, Lomakin, I do not remember the third name, for interference in the internal affairs of the state. So you're wrong about putting everyone under the same denominator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u121	Thank you, General Atanasov. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. Honourable Members, we will first vote on the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It changes the Decision on the establishment of the Temporary Commission for the Study of All Facts and Circumstances related to the Claims of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the Internal Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria, issued by the National Assembly and promulgated in the Official Journal. 16 of 26 February as follows: 1. It changes the name of the Commission of the Temporary Commission to examine all the facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of other countries in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. Point 1 of the Decision gives the following wording: He created a Temporary Commission to investigate all the facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference by other countries in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Veselinov, this is how you propose it, even though it is subject to a certain version in the final form if it is accepted? Honourable Members, voting regime for the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. They voted 118 MPs: 18, against 21, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. And now: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the premature suspension of the existence of the Temporary Commission for the Study of All Facts and Circumstances related to the Claims of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the Internal Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 35, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Stops the existence of the Temporary Commission to investigate all facts and circumstances related to allegations of interference of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Turkey in the domestic policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Honourable Members, voting regime. They voted 133 MPs: 122, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u122	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u123	Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is to extend by seven days the deadline for proposals on the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on Protection of Disasters, No 602-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 January 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A reverse opinion? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposed procedural proposal for extending the deadline for submitting proposals by seven days. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, we are moving to the eighth point of the programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR MEASURES AGAINST THE FUNDING OF TERRORISM. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015, adopted at the first vote on 25 February 2016. Please report to the President of the Budget and Finance Committee Mrs. Stoyanova. The subject is up-to-date.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure before this procedure to allow Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Mr. Oleg Petkov and Mr. Evgeni Evgenyev from the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u127	Thank you. A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, in the hall of the three persons listed by the stands. Vote 89 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please provide access to the premises of the listed persons. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're listening to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u128	Thank you. The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, No 502-01-82, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2015, adopted on the first vote on 25 February 2016. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u129	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the name of the Law on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposal of the name of the Law has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u130	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is Art. 4b. The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 1. natural persons, legal persons, groups and organisations subject to sanctions for terrorism or its financing by a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council; 2. natural persons, legal persons, groups and organisations designated by the United Nations Security Council as related to terrorism or its financing or subject to sanctions for terrorism or its financing by a resolution of the United Nations Security Council after publication of the information under art. 5a, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3. natural persons, legal persons, groups and organizations included in a list adopted by decision of the Council of Ministers. Art. 4c. (1) The measures versus the entities referred to in art. 4b, t. 1 shall apply in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council and in the order of that Law, where so provided. (2) The measures versus the entities referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3 shall be applied in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u131	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the proposed text of the importer, edited by the Commission for § 1. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u132	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 s 3 are amended as follows: On a proposal from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Interior, the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" or of the Prosecutor General, the Council of Ministers shall, by decision, adopt, supplement and amend the list under art. 4b, t. 3. (2) In the list under para. 1 shall be included: 1. persons against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated for terrorism, terrorist financing, recruitment or training of individuals or groups of persons for the purpose of carrying out terrorism, exit or entry across the country's borders, as well as illegal residence in it for the purpose of participating in terrorism, the formation, management or membership of an organised criminal group which aims to commit terrorism or terrorist financing, preparation for the conduct of terrorism, the spice of an official document for the purpose of facilitating the carrying out of terrorism, the apparent incitement to terrorism or the threat of terrorism within the meaning of the Criminal Code; 2. persons for whom there is sufficient evidence that they are engaged in activities related to terrorism or terrorist financing; 3. persons designated by the competent authorities of another country. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 3 The proposal to adopt a decision of the Council of Ministers shall be made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in agreement with the Minister of Interior and the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security and after receiving a request from the competent authorities of another State to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 2. In para. 4 words together with instructions of the State Agency "National Security" for the implementation of the measures are deleted. 3. In para. 5 sentence first the words "al." 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... In the order of the Administrative Code of Procedure, the Court of Justice shall be added after the word. 4. A new para is being created. 6: A copy of the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court respecting the appeal under para. 5, shall be sent to the Council of Ministers, which shall immediately make the necessary changes. The decision of the Council of Ministers, which amends the list, shall be promulgated and published in accordance with para. 4............................................................................................ 5. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it after the word "deprived" is added "the Minister of Foreign Affairs". 6. Alinea 7 is canceled. 7. Paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The Prosecutors shall immediately notify the Minister of Interior, the Prosecutor General and the Chairman of the State Agency. National Security when they form criminal proceedings for terrorism, terrorist financing, recruitment or training of individuals or groups of persons to commit terrorism, exit or entry across the country's borders, as well as illegal residence in it for the purpose of participating in terrorism, the formation, management or membership of an organised criminal group, which aims to commit terrorism or terrorist financing, preparation for terrorism, the spice of an official document to facilitate the conduct of terrorism, apparent incitement to terrorism or to commit terrorism within the meaning of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u133	Paragraph 2 statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At first reading I expressed my opinion that this Law has the character of extraordinary legislation, there is an imbalance in the protection of national interests, protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens and not only of Bulgarian citizens. This is shown, first and foremost in § 2 and then further Paragraph 2 states that on the list under para. 1 shall include a person against whom criminal proceedings have been initiated. In order to initiate criminal proceedings, two prerequisites are needed in most cases. First, there is sufficient data, second, legal occasion. The legal reason is any information that is given and reaches the competent authorities in the Republic of Bulgaria. In this regard, in point (a) of Article 4 (1) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that there are no grounds for amending Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 as regards the application of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to be State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty In that sense, t. 2 is practically covered in much of the item. 1 because, in order for criminal proceedings to be initiated, there must be sufficient data in the first place if it is not in the case of rapid proceedings............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then it only takes a legitimate and only legal occasion. In this regard, the extension of the notions of criminal matter, criminal procedural law, I believe that they are inappropriate, and therefore I am making a proposal. 2, and so on. 3 because persons designated by the competent authorities of another country, I imagine what could happen. Right here at the beginning of the Bill it is envisaged that these measures are taken in relation to persons designated by the UN Security Council and other such, the Council of Ministers and so on, but from other countries, this includes, honourable Members, all countries, not only the member states of the European Union or close by culture, in conviction, in governance, in democracy to Bulgaria. Therefore, I believe that t. 2 et c. 3 should be removed from this Bill. I'm making this proposal on para. 2 t. 2 et c. Three down. I am doing this in order to introduce more balanced legislation in this area. Otherwise, it would be good to form against individuals who have been charged. If you do not accept to drop the ct 2 et c. 3, I suggest that this is also written in item 3. 1: The person against whom the charge has been brought.. The text goes on as indicated. These are my three suggestions. I think they are clear, and they have a balance in terms of protecting national interest, and protecting citizens' rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u135	You suggest if I accept the dropping of t. 2 and 3q then the third proposal to vote on it as editorial. 1. Got it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u136	If they drop out of t. 2 and 3 then t. 1 to edit.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u137	If they don't drop out, let's start t. 1 against whom the indictment has been brought and then against which the indictment has been brought. Got it. Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members, we first vote on an editorial proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Philip Popov in § 2, para. 2 are listed points 1, 2 and 3 of which it proposes points 2 and 3 respectively to drop out. Please vote on the editorial proposal made. They voted 86 MPs: 12, against 22, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, we are now voting on your second editorial proposal. It's in al. 2, p. 1 to start as follows: a person against whom an indictment has been brought and from there continues the text as per the Commission. We are voting for an editorial proposal by Mr. Philip Popov. They voted 87 MPs: 14 against 23, abstention 50. And this editorial proposal is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer edited by the Commission under § 2. We are voting on the text proposed by the Commission, honourable Members. Vote 85 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u138	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) Art. 5a. 5b: Art. 5a. (1) The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall immediately publish information on its website concerning: 1. the adopted regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council imposing sanctions for terrorism or for its financing; 2. the adopted United Nations Security Council Resolutions imposing sanctions on terrorism or its financing, as well as on changes to the lists of persons referred to in those Resolutions; 3. the adopted decisions of the Council of Ministers under art. 5, para. 1. (2) A consolidated text of the list under Article shall be published immediately on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 5, para. 2. Art. 5b. (1) State Agency "National Security" with the Ministry of Interior shall give instructions for the implementation of the measures under art. 3. (2) The instructions under para. 1 shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u139	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the text of the importer, edited by the Commission, for § 3. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The Commission's proposal has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u140	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: All funds and other financial assets or economic resources which are owned by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3, regardless of whose ownership they are, as well as all funds and other financial assets or economic resources in possession held or controlled by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3, except for the items and rights on which enforcement cannot be directed. (2) The measure under para. 1 shall also apply to funds and other financial assets or economic resources acquired after: 1. publishing of the information under art. 5a, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the promulgation of the list under art. 4b, t. 3................................................ 3. In para. 3 the words "money funds, financial assets and other assets' shall be replaced by "financial funds and other financial assets or economic resources'. 3..................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u141	I'm sorry, but it's like they're repeating themselves here. It's twice over here, you've read the second pair, now it should be 4. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u142	No, no! It's written, and I read it wrong. It's spelled right. Now we move on to a point... Actually, we're moving on to t. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u143	Yeah, it should be t. 4 in the report is a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u144	A new para is being created. 4. s) Everything acquired and generated by funds and other financial assets or economic resources in possession held or controlled by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3 shall also be blocked from the relevant date by para. 2.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u145	Now it's t. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u146	It's not like that. "Today's Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words "money funds, financial assets and other assets' shall be replaced by "financial funds and other financial assets or economic resources'; (b) c. 5 words on the list under art. The following shall be added to the Annex to this Decision: 4b, t. Two and three. 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): Five o'clock. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 7 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): In the end, it is added by the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u147	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u148	Please follow the numbering of the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u149	Paragraph 4 statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In para. 1 of § 4 we are offered some harmful consequences even for third parties, and here is not even the Institute of Wine, because here it is written: as well as all funds and other financial assets or economic resources in possession held or controlled by persons referred to in art. Forty-six and so on. This means that if a person who is related to the terrorist financing activities described here has rented a hotel room or rented accommodation because that means holding within the meaning of our Law, this accommodation is also prohibited by the Minister. This goes into the ptrimonium, into the rights of third parties, which is ridiculous, and I think it's too much. Otherwise, the other text, yes, let it stay, but I suggest in para. 1 after the comma, the expression.. as well as all funds and other financial assets or economic resources in possession held or controlled by persons, with the exception of the items and rights against which...... to the end to be dropped. This is really going to come out too far. It will greatly shift the balance in terms of protecting citizens' rights and freedoms and is contrary to a number of other laws. Interestingly, such a bill is proposed by a party, by a government that defines itself to the right, that is, in defence of the private sphere, of private rights and interests. Here, however, this is clearly damaged, and I repeat, to persons for whom there is probably no guilt at all in relation to the acts mentioned here in the Law. I suggest that this thing be removed, or else let the other thing stay, but that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u151	Thank you, Mr. Popov, I understand the proposal. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Zelenogorski.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u152	My fellow Member, to a certain extent I will develop your opinion. There was a very heavy topic recently with the wild campers. If this person turns out to be a wild camper and these people don't register in any way and can somewhere settle for weeks and months, what does the state do then, because it turns out that there is a category of people that cannot in any way be registered and established? As slightly annoying as it sounds, I don't want to mess with anyone. I want our country to be calm and convinced that if some people come in from somewhere, they and wild campers will somehow be registered and controlled by the security authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u153	Thank you, Mr. Zelenogorski. Interesting discourse. Second line? I won't. Do you want a hole? No. Any other speeches? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the editorial amendment, just to announce for the record that, in fact, numbering, as on the report, turns out to be correct and para. 2 in § 4 has points 1 and 2, then we have a second point to § 4 and hence we have a third, fourth, fifth and sixth. We are going to vote on Mr. Philip Popov's editorial proposal: in para. 1 drop text, which is after the comma, after the words We vote on Mr. Philip Popov's editorial proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Vote 85 MPs: 4 against 37, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. Now, honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, supported and edited by the Commission, for § 4. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u154	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1. In para. 1 the words "money funds, financial assets or other assets' shall be replaced by "financial funds and other financial assets or economic resources' and the words "in the list referred to in art. The following shall be added to the Annex to this Decision: 4b, t. Two and three. 2. In para. 2 words on the list referred to in Article 2. The information referred to in Article 1 (2) shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Section of, and in the EEA Supplement to, the Official Journal of the
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u155	Thank you. Paragraph 5 statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer, edited and supported by the Commission, for § 5. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u156	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The 1. In para. 1 all over the words "money funds, financial assets and other assets" shall be replaced by "financial funds and other financial assets or economic resources" and the words "in the list under art. The following shall be added to the Annex to this Decision: 4b, t. Two and three. 2. In para. 4 the words "money funds, financial assets or other assets' shall be replaced by "financial funds and other financial assets or economic resources'. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The third conscientious persons claiming independent rights to blocked funds and other financial assets or economic resources may submit their claims in the form of a claim following: 1. publishing of the information under art. 5a, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. the promulgation of the list under art. 4b, t. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u157	Thank you. Statements? There aren't any. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer for § 6, edited by the Commission. We are voting in favour of the Commission paragraph. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The paragraph has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u158	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The notification referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 may also be carried out electronically with a qualified electronic signature or with a certificate of access issued by the State Agency. Upon receipt of the notification, an entry number and date shall be automatically issued and sent to the sender by e-mail. (11) The terms and conditions of issue and use of the certificate of access under para. 10, the types of documents and data that can be submitted by using a qualified electronic signature or access certificate and the order for their submission by electronic means shall be determined by written instructions of the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. The instructions shall be published on the website of the State Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u159	Thank you. Paragraph 7 statements? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer for § 7, edited by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1 words.............................................................................. 6, para. the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u161	Thank you. Statements, honourable Members, under paragraphs 8, 9 and 10? There aren't any. We are voting for a proposal from the Commission to support the text of the importer for § 8, the version of § 9, as well as the text of the importer for § 10. We are voting on Commission proposals for three consecutive paragraphs. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. Paragraphs shall be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u162	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... The following amendments shall be made to the additional provisions: 1. The name is amended as follows: 2. paragraph 1 is amended as follows: ................................................................................... Within 1. "Financial services" are: carrying out the activities under art. 2, para. 1 and 2 of the Credit Institutions Act; insurance, reinsurance or insurance-related services; public offering of securities and securities trading; all forms of management of cash or occupation property; all forms of management of collective investment, management of insurance companies and funds; provision and distribution of financial information, processing of financial data and the relevant software arising from providers of other financial services, as well as consultancy, intermediary, accounting and other ancillary activities related to the financial services described above. 2. "Financial assets and other financial assets or economic resources' are: property of any kind, whether material or intangible, movable or immovable, acquired in any way, as well as legal documents or instruments in any form, including electronic or digital, certifying property rights or other rights thereof, including, but not limited to, bank credits, travel cheques, bank cheques, bank cheques, cash transfers, shares, securities, bonds, bills, letters of credit. 3. The financing of terrorism is the direct or indirect, unlawful and deliberate provision and/or collection of funds and other financial assets or economic resources and/or the provision of financial services with the intention of being used or knowing that they will be used in whole or in part to commit terrorism within the meaning of the Criminal Code. 4. In the case of financial assets and other financial assets or economic resources, it shall include the control of legal persons within the meaning of the special laws governing the type of activity concerned, as well as the cases in which a person referred to in art. 4b of this Law, is an effective owner of a client, a legal entity within the meaning of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 3. Paragraphs 1a and 1b are repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u163	Report the other paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u164	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the other texts of the law, the words "money funds, financial assets and other assets" and "money funds, financial assets or other assets" shall be replaced by "money funds and other financial assets or economic resources" respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u165	Thank you. Statements under paragraphs 11 and 12? I don't see anyone who wants to. Honourable Members, we vote on the text of the importer for § 11, edited by the Commission, and supported by the importer and edited by the Commission for § 12. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u166	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provision'. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 are created. 6 and 7: supposed under para. 1 and 2 can also be performed electronically with a qualified electronic signature or with a issued by the State Agency of National Security. Upon receipt of the notification, an entry number and date shall be automatically issued and sent to the sender by e-mail. (7) The terms and conditions of issue and use of the certificate of access under para. 6, the types of documents and data that can be submitted by using a qualified electronic signature or access certificate and the order for their submission by electronic means shall be determined by written instructions of the Director of the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security. The instructions shall be published on the website of the State Agency. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3 a sentence is created second: the sending can also be done electronically in accordance with art. 11, para. 6 and 7
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u167	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements under Final Provisions and under § 13? There aren't any. We are voting for a proposal from the Commission to change the name of the Final Provisions, as well as the text of the importer and the proposed version of Paragraph 13 of the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, and with this the Law of the Second Voting. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO GIVE TO THE PARTICIPATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN THE TOTAL REPRESENTATION OF THE OWN FUNDS OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT Importer of the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2016 Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u168	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the Draft Decision on consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital Increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2016. At a regular meeting held on 17 March 2016, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the draft decision to give consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital Increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development on 2010, No 602-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2016. The document with the importer Council of Ministers was presented by Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Republic of Bulgaria joined the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IMVR) in 1990, with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's founding contract ratified by a Law promulgated in the Official Journal. 90th of 2009 By Decision of the Governing Council of the International Financial Institution No 613, adopted on 16 March 2011, a total capital increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development was carried out. The draft of the above decision of the Governing Council of the Bank was approved by Decision No 620 of the Council of Ministers of 2010 and supported by the Bulgarian side. Under the terms of the Decision of the Governing Council of the Bank, the Republic of Bulgaria is entitled to record an additional 1393 shares in the Ministry of Interior by increasing its stake from 5215 to 6608 shares. The value of the additional shares allocated to the Republic of Bulgaria is 168 million. 044 thousand. $555.00, $120,000. Six hundred and thirty-five U.S. dollars for a nominal share. The proportion to be imported amounts to a total of 6 per cent of the price of each share, or 10 million. 082 thousand. USD 673,30, with the rest of it in the amount of 157 million. Nine hundred and $881,70 is paid on demand. The part of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's capital paid upon request is required only where it is necessary to meet the Bank's obligations in relation to the funds it borrows and loans it guarantees, not loans or administrative expenses. The necessary funds to cover the part of the shares allocated to the Republic of Bulgaria are provided in the estimates under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016. The nature of the commitment undertaken in respect of the part of the shares payable on request is conditional. In its practice so far, the Bank has avoided resorting to the option of the part of the capital payable on demand, and our country's membership in the institution has not been a case of taking advantage of it so far. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly should give consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital Increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2010 by recording the full number of shares allocated to the country. Following the presentation and discussion of the draft decision, a vote was held which ended with the following results: With 15 votes for the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital Increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 602-03-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 25 February 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. If you'd like to introduce us to the text of the Decision itself.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u170	? RESPONSIBILITY? to give consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital Increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2010 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 85, para. 1, t. 2 and 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Grants consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the total capital increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2010, by subscription in 2016 of the national shares of a nominal value of 168 044 555,00 USD, including the amount of USD 10 082 673,30 and payable on request part of USD 157 961 881,70, according to Decision No 613 of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Governing Council adopted on 16 March 2011.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u171	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I can't see. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a decision to consent to the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the General Capital increase of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 2010 Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item of the weekly program: THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR RECOGNITION OF PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS With the report of the Committee on Education and Science, we will be introduced to her President, Mrs. Milena Damyanova. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I ask that we first vote on admission to the Chamber of Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov "Deputy Minister of Education and Science."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u173	Voting regime for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Education and Science. They voted 86 MPs: 85 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u174	♪ I can't believe on the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications, No 502-01-97, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 November 2015, adopted on the first vote on 10 February 2016. The Law on recognition of professional qualifications is amended and supplemented by the law on the recognition of professional qualifications. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u175	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u176	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u177	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 1 to 3. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u178	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by Art. 8a. The recognition body shall issue a European Professional Card to the holders of professional qualifications at their request on terms and by order determined by a regulation adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Education and Science, in consultation with the relevant professional organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u179	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 by importer with the corresponding version. Vote 87 MPs: 85, none, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u181	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs 5 to 8 supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 84, none, abstention 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u182	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 9. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the word.. the recognition... is added in cases where an adjustment or test for the recognition of a claim is required.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) regulated education or training or, in the case of a regulated profession, professional training with a special structure, and the competences exceed what is foreseen for the training referred to in point (c). 2, equivalent to the training referred to in point (a), if such training provides comparable professional standards and prepares trainings for a comparable level of responsibilities and functions, provided that the diploma is accompanied by a certificate issued by the home Member State; 3. Points 4 and 5 are amended as follows: "4." a diploma certifying the successful completion of post-graduate education with a duration of not less than 3 and not more than 4 years in a regular form of training or equivalent duration in an equivalent form which may, in addition, be expressed by an equivalent number of credits under the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS), at a university or other university, or a school providing equivalent training and, where necessary, certified completed vocational training required in addition to the course of secondary education; 5. a diploma certifying successful completion of education after secondary education with a duration of not less than 4 years in a regular form of training or an equivalent duration in an equivalent form which may, in addition, be expressed by an equivalent number of credits under the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS), at a university or other university providing equivalent training and, where necessary, certifying completed vocational training required in addition to the course of secondary education.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u183	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9, supported by the importer with the corresponding version. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u185	Are there any statements under paragraphs 10 and 11? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 and 11, supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u186	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) point 1 is repealed; (b) c. 2 the words supplied substantially different content from the required's content shall be replaced by supplied substantially in terms of professional activities compared to the scope of the training. (c) c. 3 words and non-compliance are expressed in the lack of specific training required in the Republic of Bulgaria, or in a significant difference in its content according to the............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: "Secretary difference" under para. 1, t. 2 is available where the training carried out by the applicant is characterised by significant discrepancies in content and duration compared to the duration and/or content of the training required in the Republic of Bulgaria and the knowledge, skills and competences acquired as a result of this training do not correspond to what is necessary for the exercise of the occupation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u187	Is there anyone who wishes to make statements under § 12? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 12 by importer with the corresponding version of the proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u188	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u189	Are there any MPs who wish to speak on the 13 to 22 texts? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 13 to 22, supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u190	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the National Representative Valentin Pavlov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 23 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u191	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 23, not supported by the Commission. [[Radio.]] Colleagues, we are voting § 23. The Commission proposes to reject it. Vote 91 MPs: 88, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u192	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added which may, in addition, be expressed in an equivalent number of credits under the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS). 2. In point (a), point (a) (a) at the end of the period of time, the European Union's law relating to these activities shall be added; (b) point (b) is amended as follows: (b) the anatomy, physiology, behaviour and physiological needs of animals, as well as the skills and competences necessary for their cultivation, feeding, welfare, their reproduction and hygiene in general; (c) point (c) is repealed; (d) point (d) is amended as follows: (d) clinical, epidemiological and analytical skills and knowledge necessary for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases, including anaesthesia, aseptic surgery and painless death, considered individually or in a group, including special knowledge of diseases that may be transmitted to humans; (e) in point (e) the final addition of (f) point (e) is amended as follows: (e) the hygiene and technology of the extraction, production and distribution of food for animals or products of animal origin intended for human consumption, including the skills and competences necessary for understanding and clarifying good practices in this regard; (g) point (g) is amended as follows: the responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicinal products to treat animals and to ensure the safety of the food chain and the environment; (h) point (h) is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u193	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the version of § 24, which shall become § 23 by importer with the corresponding version. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u194	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29 which shall become § 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u195	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs of 25 supported by the Commission, which shall become § 24 to § 30 respectively, which shall become § 29. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u196	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 32. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u197	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote from § 31 to the importer, which shall become § 30 to § 37, which shall become § 36, supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u198	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u199	Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? I won't. I put to the vote from § 38, which becomes § 37 to § 41, which becomes § 40, supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u200	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 41, as in art. 96, para. 1, t. 5 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u201	Are there any who wish to make statements under § 42, which becomes § 41 with the corresponding adjustment? I won't. I put to the vote § 42, which becomes § 41. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u203	Are there any statements under § 43 that will become § 42? I won't. The text is by importer. Voting mode. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u204	Under § 44, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... In § 5 of the Additional Provisions, following the words "intermediaries in trade and distribution of toxic products', the words "s' shall be replaced by a comma and finally added "s' to Directive 2013/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 November 2013 amending Directive 2005/36/EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and of Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on administrative cooperation through the Internal Market Information System (Securities Regulation), (OJ L 354/132 of 28 December 2013.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u205	I shall put to the vote § 44 by importer which shall become § 43 with the corresponding version. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u206	"Additional provision'. Proposal by the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the importer's text on the subdivision and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u207	Voting mode. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u208	Under § 45, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 45 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u209	I shall put to the vote the motion to reject § 45. Vote 81 MPs: for 80, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u210	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u211	I vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u212	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u213	I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 46, which shall become § 44. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u214	Under § 47, there is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185, para. 3, p. 2 the words "7-day period' from "seven-day period' are replaced by the day following "seven-day period'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 186 is By the decree under para. 3, p. The procedure for verifying the knowledge of the Bulgarian language of the persons under para. 1 shall also be laid down. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u215	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 47 by importer, which shall become § 45. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u216	Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Chambers of Architects and Engineers in Investment Design in art. 11 the words the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works shall adopt a decree for the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u217	I shall put to the vote § 46, supported by the Commission with the corresponding version. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Thus, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on recognition of professional qualifications was adopted at second reading. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and maintenance of equipment for the maintenance of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and The first report belongs to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova, please come in for a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016. At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of consultancy services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the efficiency of services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. The bill was presented by Mr. Nankov, who pointed out that the Agreement provides for the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to provide a consulting service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and to further develop the measures laid down in the Action Plan of the Water and Water Management and Water Management Strategy in the Republic of Bulgaria in the period 2014 - 2023. Consultancy is aimed at supporting and creating conditions, mechanisms and capacities to improve the activity and increase the efficiency of the water sector. A financing strategy and mechanisms are envisaged to reduce the impact of prices as a result of industry reform and accelerated investment. The Agreement aims at strengthening regulatory capacity and strengthening the functions of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, as well as the establishment of procedures to retain some of the revenues from future refinancing services in the sector. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the provision of Consulting Services for Development and Financing Strategy, strengthening the capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the VAC sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. We are moving on to the report of the Leading Commission on the Draft Law "The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Mrs. Kotseva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for development and financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers 10 March 2016. At its meeting held on 16 March 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the water sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 March 2016. Mr. Nikolay Nankov, Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works took part in the Commission meeting, and Mrs. Tanya Mileva, Head of the Political Office of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolai Nankov. The Agreement was signed on 23 February 2016 on the basis of a decision of the Council of Ministers of 12 February 2016, approving the draft agreement. It provides for the Ministry of Regional Development to take advantage of the World Bank's expertise in order to further develop measures laid down in the Action Plan of the Strategy for Development and Management of Water Supply and Sewerage in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2023. Consulting services are designed to support the creation of conditions, mechanisms and capacity in the water sector aimed at increasing the efficiency of the services provided, drawing up a financing strategy for the industry and mechanisms to reduce the impact of prices due to industry reform and accelerated investment and strengthening regulatory capacity. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the Bill, and also raised specific questions related to the implementation of the activities provided for in the Agreement, to which they received comprehensive answers from the representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy and Local Self-government with 13 votes in favour of abstention and non-opportunity, proposes to the National Assembly a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services for the development of a financing strategy, strengthening the regulatory capacity and increasing the effectiveness of the services provided in the VAC sector between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 23 February 2016, No 602-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Kotseva. Professor Veliv, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since it is now 2 pm and since this bill has not been allocated to the Committee on Environment and Water, we would like to ask questions to representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, and they are not there, I propose that we stop the work for today and invite them to come tomorrow when this bill is under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-03-23.u223	I will not put it to the vote, as the time for the sitting today is over and I have the right to terminate it. Before that, I would like to announce that tomorrow we are continuing with the first item of the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tobacco and Tobacco Products Act. I'm adjourned for today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
