ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum. [[Ringing]] . I am opening the plenary session, which also marks the beginning of the new autumn political season. We are well gathered after the August days, appointed for rest! I hope, and let us wish, that we have an active but calm political bias, a political season that will be crowned with quality legislation to be adopted in this plenary. I suggest to your attention a draft program for the work of the National Assembly for the period from 31 August to 2 September: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 2. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 3. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, a joint draft drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, based on the laws adopted at the first vote on 3 December 2015 with importers: Metodi Andreev and a group of MPs. 4. First vote on the Bill on the closing of the Commission on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importer of the first bill is Velizar Enchev; the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is with importers Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov and the Bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army with importers Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. 5. A bill for ratification of the Minamata Convention on Mercury. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 6. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2014. (confidential) and Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report of the State Security Committee on Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. (confidential). Importer is the Council of Ministers. This is intended to be t. 1 for the meeting tomorrow Thursday, 1 September 2016, which will be held behind closed doors, together with the next two points, which are also closed, and these are: 7. Draft decision for the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the State Agency of Intelligence. The Council of Ministers is the importer for 2015. The report is classified with a security graffiti. 2 for Thursday 1 September 2016 Point 3 for Thursday under closed session conditions and otherwise under the Programme: 8. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Activity Report of the Office of Military Information. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report also has a security griff "Secret." 9. Draft Decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer is the Council of Ministers. This is intended to be t. 4 for Thursday 1 September 2016 10. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 91 - 103 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly Friday, 11:00 p.m. Please vote, fellow Members. Vote 168 MPs: 155, none, abstention 13. This week's work programme has been adopted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of our Rules have received two proposals to include points in our weekly program. The first at the time is Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal, which proposes to include the project for declaration of the forty-third National Assembly for the NATO summit in Warsaw as a point. Here you are, Mr. Enchev, to protect your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u2	Madam President, colleagues! The behavior of the Bulgarian delegation at the NATO summit in Warsaw requires the Bulgarian legislative authority to react to the behaviour of the President, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who, with their public statements and commitments, actually violated the Constitution and threatened the national security of the country, as the National Assembly is entitled to have the last word for sending a Bulgarian battalion to a fixed military base in Romania and for the adoption of our territory to an American Bronethanc Brigade of up to five thousand people. For this reason, I propose this declaration in summary: Leading by the desire of the Republic of Bulgaria to be a factor for peace and stability in the Balkans and the Black Sea, as well as the need to reduce military tensions between NATO and the Russian Federation, the Bulgarian Parliament believes that the main threat to global security is international terrorism, illegal migration and militarisation. In Warsaw, a decision was made to place four multinational battalions permanently in Poland, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, and with this act NATO is increasing tensions at its eastern borders, as the Russian side will take response military measures, leading to dangerous escalation and confrontation. The meeting of NATO in Warsaw had negative consequences for the Bulgarian country, whose delegation to the Polish capital made commitments putting Bulgaria in the number of the Hawks in the military pact. For this reason, I insist, and the National Assembly insists, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov to remove from the cabinet the military minister Nikolay Nenchev, who, with his anti-constitutional actions, poses a threat to the national security of the country. The National Assembly will also draw up a national position before the NATO meeting and the NATO military ministers meeting planned for October this year, declaring a refusal of hostile action against the Russian Federation. [[The President gives a signal that time has run out.]] Finally, the MPs reprimand the militarist position of the Head of State.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u3	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. You have the opportunity only to procedurally suggest, not to develop considerations on the substance you have done. I put to the vote Mr. Velizar Enchev's proposal to include this declaration in our weekly program. Vote 151 MPs: 29, Against 97, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from Mrs. Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria, which proposes in accordance with art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure in the weekly programme shall be included as a point of hearing in accordance with art. 110 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria on the issues discussed at the meetings held in Ankara and Berlin and the positions declared by him on behalf of the Republic of Bulgaria. Who's gonna defend the offer? Mr. Angel Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that you will agree that in today's day, not as a specific day, but as a period of time, there is no more important topic for Bulgaria than the topic of protecting security and our interests regarding the migration wave and therefore opportunities for forming a single European policy as a relation to migration pressure. From this point of view, the subject is undoubtedly linked to at least two challenges facing us and the country. The first challenge is undoubtedly the risk of an uncontrolled invasion of refugees on the Bulgarian territory, which is real. It is a risk that is undoubtedly related to internal security and public order in Bulgaria, to border guards. The second challenge is to date the European Union's demonstrated inability to... [[Noise and lines on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u5	Mr. Dimitrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u6	... to form a common solution and position as an attitude towards this risk. This is a challenge which is undoubtedly linked to the political and economic interests of the country. Some specialists have determined Turkey's position or visas, or refugees, from the spectrum to a pressure tool to a direct racketeering. The problem in this case is that the Bulgarian Prime Minister, with his visit to Ankara and with the positions that were expressed there, gave the impression that he unilaterally committed to this position and that he was a kind of courier of the message that the Turkish President made. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is clear that such bilateral engagement represents a risk, so we must hear the arguments from him, which is why we also propose a proper hearing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u7	Thank you. Before that, Mr. Dimitrov, you know in the Rules the penalty for disorderly conduct in plenary. Do not challenge me at the beginning of the political season to move on to this penalty! Distracting colleagues who can't listen to the speaker's statement from the stands. Colleagues, I put to the vote the proposal made to include a hearing of the Prime Minister on the issues that were argued by Mr. Angel Naydenov in our weekly programme. Vote 162 MPs: 43 against 83, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. [[National Representative Desislava Atanasova wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u8	What happened? Here you go. I told you you were distracted at the very beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-election procedure. Colleagues from GERB failed, including me, to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u10	It's a re-vote. They voted 161 MPs: 44, against 87, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u11	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u12	A negative vote on procedural votes cannot be accepted, which is why there is no possibility, in accordance with the Rules, that I may give you a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u13	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u14	In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u15	My procedure, Madam President, is a request to you, as President of the National Assembly, by listening to the arguments and now in plenary, and shortly before at the Conference of Presidents' meeting, to invite the Prime Minister for a hearing. Of course, it is his right, in that case, to assess, since the majority did not respect the proposal to include this item on the agenda. I would like to point out that I do not believe that this gesture by Mr. Dimitrov has distracted the MPs and they certainly did not consider his initiative in the plenary as more important than the arguments relating to a hearing on the topic of Bulgaria's positions, but the visits of the Prime Minister and Ankara and then in Berlin raised too many questions which could not be left unanswered, they need a corresponding representation of the positions and of the mandate which followed the Bulgarian Prime Minister, expressing the relevant opinions at these meetings. There is no doubt that activity must be demonstrated by the Bulgarian government in this situation, but we need to know...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u16	Your procedural proposal is clear, Mr. Naydenov. I'll invite the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u17	... on the basis of what this activity is and respectively with what arguments are presented the positions, following this activity by the Bulgarian Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u18	Thank you. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 27 July to 30 August this year: Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. A bill to supplement the Religion Act. Importers - Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Religions and Human Rights is the lead. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." The Committee on Defence is the lead. Draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. Importers s Marianna Todorova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Importers - Boyka Marinska and a group of MPs. The Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is the lead. It is also distributed to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Employment Promotion Act. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. A bill for individuals and support measures. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on Health. Report on the activities of the Commission on the interaction with NGOs and complaints of citizens in the Forty- Third National Assembly for the period January 2016 A bill to amend and supplement the Road Traffic Act. Importer Georgi Kadiev. The Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications is the lead. It's a food bill. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Environment and Water. Draft Decision on the revision of the European Union's sanctions policy with regard to the Russian Federation. Importers.. Cornelia Ninova, Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft amending and supplementing the Diplomatic Service Act. Importer Georgi Kadiev. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the Level of Service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General of the Food Safety and Tobacco and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute of Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and herbal products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bojidar Lukarski, of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It will be examined and discussed by the Committee on Agriculture and Food, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Grants between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria and the International Organisation of Francophony. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the lead. It will also be discussed by the Budget and Finance Committee. A bill on physical education and sports. Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Children, Youth and Sports is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Education on Science, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft Decision on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Importers.. Cornelia Ninova, Petar Kanev and Zhelyo Boychev. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Committee on Foreign Policy. Draft Law on the ratification of a Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and Von Karman Institute for Fluid Dynamics (IFK). Importer of the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on Defence. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2015 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Several messages: In connection with the upcoming official holiday of 6 September "Sunification Day, Tuesday, and the holiday day 5 September, Monday, I inform you that the MPs and the parliamentary groups may make their proposals for the National Assembly Work Programme for the period from 7 September to 9 September under the conditions and under the terms of art. 50, para. 3 and para. 8 of the Rules until 18:00 on Friday, 2 September 2016. I specify that the next Wednesday, 7 September, is the first Wednesday for September, which is why the Programme is formed with proposals on behalf of the parliamentary groups in the order of rotation. First is the Reformation Block Group. The draft work programme of the National Assembly of the President of Parliament will be submitted on September 2, Friday, within the deadlines of our Rules. Honourable Members of the National Assembly in the performance of art. 133, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act in August in the National Assembly received reports on the implementation of the programming budgets for the half-year of 2016 of the ministries of tourism, of finance, of justice, of youth and sport, of culture, of the internal affairs, of transport, information technology and communications, of agriculture and food, of health care, of the State Agency By my letters, the accounts have been submitted to the Budget and Finance Committee and to the relevant portfolio Standing Committees. They are your attention in the Library of the National Assembly. In full volume, the SANS report is located in the register of the national classified information department, in the other building of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, on 15 August this year the manager of BNB Mr. Dimitar Radev deposited with the National Assembly the results of the review of the quality of assets and stress of the banking system in Bulgaria. The review of the quality of assets and stress of the banking system in Bulgaria was carried out by the Bulgarian National Bank on the basis of § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law on Reconstruction and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Mediators in accordance with art. 80b of the Credit Institutions Act. By my letter, the material was provided to the Budget and Finance Committee. The same shall be provided to the parliamentary groups and to MPs not members of parliamentary groups as well as to the Library of the National Assembly. On August 16th of this year, with an I.V. No 603-16-21 from the Ministry of Finance in the Parliament has received an information on the state debt situation of the Republic of Bulgaria at the end of the second quarter of 2016 and according to the Decision of the Council of Development at the Council of Ministers on 13 October 2015. The material is on the attention of the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to all of us in the Library of the National Assembly. On 18 August the National Assembly received a summary of the Report of the Bureau of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights Research Mission of the OSCE, held in Bulgaria in the period 31 May 3 June this year. The material is provided to the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, as well as to the attention of the parliamentary groups. Each of us can meet him at the Library of Parliament. The National Assembly has received a Report on the results of the control carried out for the implementation of the recommendations under Audit Report No 08-00000-214 for the audit of the implementation of the Energy Efficiency Project for Houses and Housing in Bulgaria during the period 2012 "2015" for the period 1 January 2012 - 30 June 2014 for information. The report is made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance, to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Library of Parliament. The National Assembly received a final audit report No 06-00-100-516 for the audit of the State Social Security Budget Review for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015, with an opinion on the Review on the implementation of the State Social Security Budget for the same period. The report and the opinion are sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as available at the Library of the National Assembly. The final audit report No 06-00-00-200-416 for the audit of the budgetary expenditure of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the period 1 January 2015 until 31 December 2015 with an opinion of the budgetary expenditure of the Bulgarian National Bank and their management for the same period. Again, the report and the opinion are the focus of the Budget and Finance Committee, as well as of all MPs in the Library. On 30 August 2016, by letter of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the National Assembly received: Report on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period 25 July 2016. "24 August 2016, and Protocol No 38 of the Governing Council of the Fund, held on 25 August this year, at which the Report is reviewed and discussed. These materials are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Members of the National Assembly know where they can meet them. This is the Library of Parliament. On 29 August this year, a Report on the results and analysis of the data of the study of legislative activity conducted by NCCOM in the first six parliamentary sessions of the mandate of the Forty-third National Assembly was received by the National Centre for Public Opinion Study (NCCOM) in the National Assembly. The scope of the study includes 511 drafts registered in the Public Register....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The study was sent to the Members of the National Assembly by electronic means and is available to them in the Library of Parliament as well as published on the website of the National Assembly on the Internet. Last message. The National Statistical Institute has received materials from the National Statistical Institute containing statistical research results on: a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes of producer prices on the domestic and international market for June 2016; turnover indexes in the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles, in June 2016; indexes of industrial production in June this year; indexes of construction production in June 2016; average monthly salary and list of employees in labour and service for the second quarter of 2016; information about the consumer surveillance conducted in July this year; indexes of consumer prices in July 2016; gross domestic product for the second quarter of this year; main results of the surveillance of the workforce in the second quarter of this year; information on business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in August 2016. According to parliamentary practice and tradition, at the beginning of each new plenary session in the first session, it is time to hear the legislative priorities of each of the parliamentary groups represented. By decision of the Conference of Presidents and by tradition, the declarations on behalf of groups will be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio, and the order is according to the number, i.e. the size of the individual parliamentary groups. Please turn on the cameras and microphones of the national public media. On behalf of the GERB Parliamentary Group, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are on the eve of a fateful and very responsible for our nation's political season. And there's no unnecessary pathos in those words, that's just the reality. We are increasingly talking about the need for national unity, but it is as if we are appealing for it not where we should be among the Bulgarian voters. In fact, we are indebted to our employers because in our face they have been looking for years to see a projection of their interests, but, unfortunately, in most cases they do not find them. The political selfishness of individual parties and politicians already leads to open political cynicism, and no one wants to be ruled by selfish people. Much of the political practices satisfy those who proclaim them nothing more, and while the situation is such, significant results of our political efforts are impossible. In recent weeks, we have seen political formations both to the right and to the left demonstrate an inability to find a common formula for their political interests. All this is garnished with a high dose of disloyalty, inconsistent and even denial of common sense. Political hypocrisy has recently marked the leadership of our opponents both to the right and to the left. This can not help but discourage the Bulgarian voter. Moreover, the news in our country seems to be made not so much by political actions and facts as by political intrigue. The replacement of real political values is not from today and yesterday and they are permanently alienating the population from the political process by condemning it to be unproductive. Against the backdrop of an alarming international situation and regional instability, we have no right to underestimate real threats, nor should we hyperbolise them. It is no accident that GERB and Prime Minister Borisov enjoy the highest public trust when it comes to national security and protection of citizens. However, this authority of our party is also a huge responsibility at the moment. We bring this authority in the name of a good public image of Bulgaria, which we want to see as a factor of stability in the Balkans. It is obvious that both opposition and partner parties compete to make a political asset only by criticising GERB's governance and policy. It is a very unpleasant truth that in our country policy is replaced by criticism of the opponent. It is much easier to point out weaknesses to someone who works than to work alongside them or to offer constructive ideas. If there is an agreement in the political community on something, it is that any unprincipled and false attacks against the government are admissible, as long as it weakens their influence. This is a sign of political inadequacy in the face of serious international problems and a tense environment. Moreover, it implicates many Bulgarian politicians in irresponsibility and disregard of national interest, so let us aim to seek national unity first among politicians and then among voters. In the context of what has been said so far, it is necessary to be too clear and specific about the future intentions of the parliamentary group of GERB: GERB will adopt laws and legal amendments that will guarantee optimal security at the borders of our country, which is a major priority for this parliamentary season. Bulgaria is in a delicate situation and people should be able to trust the authorities and experts. Information chaos itself is a serious threat when it comes to national security. We assure you that GERB will contribute to strengthening the security of the country's borders, seeking international assistance and optimization of the internal resource. We will be happy to see partners in the face of all parliamentary groups on this topic, because the protection of borders is not only a priority of GERB, but of the voters of all parties and of all Bulgarians. Bulgaria will gain authority from the combined political efforts, especially when it comes to national security. Unfortunately, however, the examples of political division and even single political appearances, contrary to the Bulgarian national interest, are very frightening to our Euro-Atlantic partners and question our synergies when it comes to national security. On behalf of GERB, I say that we have no intention of putting an end to our legislative activity in relation to judicial reform. We are a guarantor of this reform because we alone have the resources and the will to make the necessary changes to ensure the rule of law. Any speculation and accusations of delay, manipulation and replacement of the ideas for judicial reform come from those who do not have the power and desire to do so, but claim that this topic is of their sole competence. Both for the government of Boyko Borisov and GERB as the main centre-right party in Bulgaria the realization of the judicial reform is extremely important because this will give us a real opportunity to get out of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism of the European Commission. I believe that this will be a huge step towards improving Bulgaria's international image, something that at least in words all political formations present in this House are seeking. During this session, we are about to adopt the State Budget Act, as well as the budget for the Health Insurance Fund and public insurance. As with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov's first government, GERB's efforts are aimed at reducing the deficit, which is directly related to a reduction in government debt. Significantly better collection now, however, allows us to consolidate the budget not at the expense of cost reduction, but on the contrary, through a significant increase in revenue. This enables us to implement policies and actions set out in our election platform. Good results in the field of public finances will also enable us to develop our ideas in social policy. Thanks to the new leadership in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which gave fresh impetus to the work of the department, we will work on targeted policies to improve the professional capacity of the population in Northwestern Bulgaria, the Rhodopes, Strandzha and other economically backward regions in the country. We expect constructive support for these policies because we believe that reducing the differences between the regions in Bulgaria is the key to a more successful fight against the demographic crisis. Care for the stability of incomes has been developed by our governance as a prerequisite for opportunities to achieve an acceptable standard, as well as the possibility of personal activity on the labour market. The results are seen slowly and are hard to achieve, but in general the critics of our social policy are decreasing and their arguments are fading. At the heart of the legislative efforts of the Parliamentary Group of GERB will be the necessary measures to be adopted in relation to the forthcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union. This high public responsibility of our country will draw serious public attention both to our governance and to our country as a whole. We must make the most of Bulgaria's being a centre of European politics and make dividends in some areas in terms of security of the country and as an external border of the European Union. With regard to foreign policy, we want to expand Bulgaria's mutually beneficial partnerships with countries of the European Union, as well as promote as much the highlights of our foreign policy. We expect to open not only new jobs for the administration to serve the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union, but also new opportunities for investment for advertising Bulgaria as a good place for doing business. With regard to financial stability, we have already proved that our banking system is not in crisis. The Presidency will ensure a higher degree of respect for European financial frameworks and directives. Energy diversification, strengthening the capacity of the state's armed forces, as well as deepening international cooperation in the field of security are steps towards stability and strengthening the national sovereignty in which we continue to walk. In GERB we are confident that we can reach consensus on all important issues for the state and the tendency towards mutual concessions in the name of national goals is a sign of maturity of political parties. The topic of the upcoming presidential election cannot be overlooked. I wish for the future president of Bulgaria to think of himself not as a political person who has won the election race by a political party, but as a promising, good statesman. There is no doubt that the upcoming vote is viewed both by opposition and by some of the partners of our government as a focus for assessing the management of GERB. The most important thing at the moment is to be reasonable and not give way to unhealthy election emotions. I wish success to anyone who will join the upcoming race, and may the best win. There will probably be many exotic and interesting candidates, but now we need someone who will be guided by the principles of responsibility, security and justice, to work in the interests of citizens and to be able to balance and build up. As chairman of the largest parliamentary group in the Forty-third National Assembly and as President of the National Election Headquarters, I call on the leadership, members and sympathizers of all the other parties to keep a tolerant and positive tone to our opponents throughout the campaign. As always, GERB will conduct its political campaign entirely in the interest of the high awareness of voters, without using negative practices such as black PR, compromises and personal attacks to any candidate or party behind it. We believe that this is the way to preserving stability in Bulgaria and thus to work in the interests of citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BDZ-NS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u20	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. We will now hear from Mrs Cornelia Nino, Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! For us from BSP this session is a session of the alternative, the time in which to show the possible other way for development of Bulgaria, and this alternative in action and not in words. In internal colleagues, we all understand that without production and economy there is no way for Bulgaria forward, only that you, who are managing today the state, think that it has no place in these processes. For you privatization, concessions, helping only large 5-6 companies solve problems. Your silence, when monopolies, heating, mobile operators bend the hands of Bulgarian consumers, you call a market economy. We offer another protection of state and municipal property from looting, support for Bulgarian production, small and medium-sized business and the Bulgarian consumer. Starting tomorrow at your banks you will have the alternative in action: Law on public enterprises, which protects and develops state and municipal property; Law on Foods, which obliges the retail chains to buy a certain amount of Bulgarian production in a certain area around the chain where it is located; Law on the lease, which protects the small farmer from the large tenants; Law on the Bank for Development, which turns it finally into that state bank, which helps small and medium-sized business, and does not lend only 5-6 large companies to oligarchs. We're making you an offer to review the concession contracts. Here they are, colleagues, at the bank. We collected all concessions in Bulgaria during the summer, accompanied by a report by BORKOR on the theft of national wealth. We want to review the concession contracts in the direction of an increase in fees. You want an alternative, you want policies, colleagues on the right, not words here are policies. It is up to you now whether you will respond adequately to this proposal and whether we will take care of the Bulgarian economy or continue to tolerate monopolies and companies close to power. Secondly, gentlemen in charge, you have crossed out the concept of a social state in the Constitution. Our alternative is an active, social state in caring for workers, children, young, elderly people and combating poverty. Starting tomorrow you will have this alternative to your banks, and it is: a new Law on guaranteeing employees' claims. 20,000 people did not receive fair wages, and you accept this silently. In the Fund there are hundreds of millions of levs that do not reach these people because you keep them in reserve to show high financial results. With this Law, we make it possible to obtain these people's money. Secondly, we will propose from tomorrow a new Youth Act; a new Old People's Law; a War Veterans Act; family aid for children; reduced VAT on children's goods and the cancellation of flat tax. On your vote on these specific alternative policies we will find out whether these Bulgarians are important to you or are second-hand people abandoned by the state. Thirdly, budget 2017. We will present our vision of a budget with accents education, health care, production, municipalities and income. Fourth, foreign policy. In a complex and dynamic international environment, European leaders do not agree on how to deal with the problems we face. We Bulgarian Socialists are for the European future of Bulgaria as a member of the big European family, but Europe needs change and one of these changes is taking into account the national interest of each Member State. Did the Bulgarian government protect the national interest in foreign policy? Absolutely not! You turned foreign policy into a courier company between Ankara and Berlin, violated international agreements, two decisions of a Bulgarian court in extradition of foreign citizens. Why?! So far, we have had some masters, leaders in Brussels, is there now another Bulgaria, another chief in Ankara?! You appeal for national agreement on the topic of National Security. It's an extremely sensible offer. Ladies and gentlemen of the right, 2015, September, 25th, here is the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. In five specific points, how to reach national agreement on these important issues, none of which you accepted. You want a joint decision of the parliamentary parties on important national security issues. Why did you hide the Prime Minister today? Why not come here and all together, taking into account the complexity of the situation, make this common position, stand behind it in the interests of Bulgaria? And who's a hypocrite now?! The politicians you accused earlier, or you?! In words, one thing, and by actions another. Bulgarian borders are not protected. You slept for two years. The fact that 2,000 people are caught in Serbia means that they have passed through Bulgaria absolutely seamlessly. With what have you won the national interest in Europe on such topics as the lifting of sanctions against Russia? Our alternative will once again be the high Bulgarian interest requires these sanctions to fall. If you do not support this again, our proposal for a decision will clarify the truth about your attitude towards national security and national interest. Why does the Bulgarian government have no position on such an important topic as the International Agreement with the United States of America and Canada? We are against this Agreement because it is working again in favour of the big, monopoly, in violation of the rights of ordinary European citizens and the labour rights of Bulgarian workers. Where is your position on these important international issues? There isn't one. You're calling for national consent, but you're rejecting it. At the end of the day, the presidential election. Obviously, we will have to do very serious work in elections. We have to appeal to you about three things. Firstly, all political parties should give an assessment of the mandate GERB and President Plevneliev. We, the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria, are the only party to give such an assessment. And she's a failure. What are you ashamed to give such an assessment? Is it positive or negative to step on this assessment and see what change we are looking for in the presidential institution. Secondly, let us begin the conversation essentially about the role of the Presidential institution in this complex international environment. That is, to start the real campaign, the competition of arguments and the vision for the development of Bulgaria. Thirdly, we call on all parliamentary parties, extraparliamentary parties, civil society for a common front against the forgeries of elections and against the bought vote in which the rulers are now kings. Let's unite! Let the people decide, give their will and best to win. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! These four months ahead will be a clash between visions for the development of Bulgaria, for the lives of our people, for the national security of the country. We will strongly oppose all your actions that hold Bulgaria's development back, which do not account for the lives of the people and who are a threat to national security. It's time for our alternative in action! GERB is the status quo. BSP left Bulgaria, is change. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] The choice between one and the other is in the hands of the Bulgarian people. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. The Reformation Block Group is in order. [[Shout and lines from DPS.]] Please excuse me, colleagues! Mr. Karadayi, with a personal apology to you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u23	Thank you for the opportunity, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The beginning of the new parliamentary session begins in a situation of acute security crisis, a lack of a clear vision of our future, of the Balkans, of Europe and of the world. The policy of the DPS is to have security and stability in Bulgaria and in the region, but for this there must be a policy of balance at every particular moment and every particular political act to be related to this context. We must not imagine that what we are doing as a policy in Parliament is also unrelated to global policy, European policy, regional policy and so on. It's all in everything! These words of our Honorary Chairman Dr. Ahmed Dogan, spoken by him much earlier, have been confirmed by the political processes since the beginning of this year. Foreign policy, in particular the refugee crisis, the events in the region, the state of the European Union after Brexit gradually shifted from public attention the internal problems, even took a central place in political life in the country. This trend will continue to develop throughout the political parliamentary season that we are discovering today. At the heart of the attention, of course, will be the upcoming elections for the country's president. We, in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, consider these elections not only as an isolated political event, but as part of the process of reformating the political configuration and stabilisation of the institutions in Bulgaria, achieving real political stability. Widely proclaimed in the last year by the Prime Minister and GERB to preserve political stability. It wants to convince us that this stability is a fact. Is that right? Political stability means the security of citizens and stability of the main institutions, first of all, a stable parliament. A stable parliament is one where there is a clearly defined and valuable homogeneous majority management. There is no such majority in this Parliament. The ruling coalition, at least by agreement, was composed of GERB and the Reformation bloc with the support of the Patriotic Front and ABB. The latter have withdrawn their support, the Reformation bloc has been at two speeds for a year, rather in reverse. There remains a majority of one party, parts of a coalition, nationalist Eurosceptics and free political electrons, without them there is no majority. The demonstration of this ruling political configuration is particularly clear in the efforts made by the prime minister in recent months to play an active political role in foreign policy in the region and in the European Union. In principle, Bulgaria in this difficult period requires an active role in the processes in the region and in Europe, but without the support of a stable political majority in the parliament, without the active partnership of the President the efforts of the prime minister hang as a solo action and look like a show. We believe that a stable political majority within this Parliament cannot be achieved. For this reason, our primary political objective in the current political season is early parliamentary elections following the presidential elections. [[Applause from DPS.]] In this sense, the presidential elections are the beginning of a new government in the country after early parliamentary elections. The early parliamentary elections must form a new parliament and a new majority. Even before the end of the previous parliamentary session, we focused on the upcoming presidential election. We pointed out the importance of the elections and the institution, outlined the profile of the necessary president. To the outlined profile of the President in view of the recent events we see the role of the President as a partner of the other institutions in Bulgaria's pro-active role in the European Union and NATO and corrective when necessary. In the context of these requirements, we will carefully analyse the platform of candidates for president and help to select the one that meets the most national interest. The great goal is stability and unity of the nation, which requires a valuable homogeneous majority in parliament, a stable government, a stable presidential institution, a national responsible partnership between them with clear national priorities. A valuable homogeneous majority without Eurosceptics, drawn up not on an arithmetic principle, but united around the realization of the following main objectives: an active role for reforms in the European Union and on the problem of refugees; a unified position on security going through an active policy within NATO; the implementation of an adequate internal policy in line with realities and crisis, because people are starving and fleeing the country. The main migratory flow that the next government must stop is that of Bulgarian citizens leaving the country for economic reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, we have yet to face another great challenge: Bulgaria will take over for the first time its membership in the Presidency of the European Union from 1 January 2018. Let's just remember that there's a little over a year to go by then. If we do not want our Presidency to be a formal act, we must have stable institutions: President, Parliament, government ready to play a proactive role in reforming the European Union. Only in this way Bulgaria has the chance to turn from a formal member of the Union into an active, asking for the necessary changes. As a European party and as part of ALDE, the DPS also has a vision for reforms with concrete proposals. As a response to the reform of today's Europe, which is too bureaucratic, we propose a less wasteful, more effective, more democratic union, a union that achieves more with fewer resources. We must give Europe the tools to fight terrorism to protect those who reach for our freedom and threaten European society, the way of life. We can make Europe stronger and safer. The populists are trying to make us believe that closing the borders will bring security. The only way to protect Europe is to build a strong and unified defence. Europe is suffocating with dozens of bilateral and regional military co-operations. That's just not enough. The reason is very simple. Almost everything is duplicated. Only a European army with a single command as part of NATO will increase our defence capacity, provide security and security at our external borders. These are just a few points from our proposals. The countries in the European Union must form a common will for their future. The European Union must do very little but clear things and do them very well. We need to focus on policies that will also raise the standard of living for everyone. European leaders must restore confidence, the European Union must focus on effective cooperation in the fight against terrorism. This is very important because recent events put Bulgaria in the eye of the typhoon, of regional and geopolitical crises. Once again, I would stress that political time requires that we clearly realise our mission and target the goals and the path on which to go. In domestic politics as a national responsible party, we must be united in our will and provide, and guarantee fair and transparent elections in order to establish the necessary confidence in the elected president. If we do not meet these conditions, we cannot expect successful implementation of the country's presidential mission and prosperity. We cannot take advantage of the historic chance to have a pro-active role in reforming the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I call on all nationally responsible parties to be responsible, to elect the president of all Bulgarian citizens. That's what it means to bet on outpartisan candidates. With the long horizon for a stable presidential institution, for a stable new parliament, a stable value homogeneous majority that will broadcast a stable government that will take over the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Let us, with the power of unity, overcome the serious challenges that appear on the horizon. If the crisis is a prerequisite for developing intolerance, then we are called, if necessary, even if we impose tolerance and togetherness to get rid of the crisis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u24	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. The Parliamentary Group of the Reforming Block is now in order. The co-chair, Mr. Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u25	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the MPs from the Reformation bloc, who are not part of the parliamentary majority, I propose this position in relation to the beginning of the new political season. Bulgaria welcomes this political season in an environment of international instability and unknown in the last at least three decades risks to national security. Above all, the main guarantor of our economic stability and well-being, the European Union, is in a deepening and comprehensive crisis. The will in Maastricht union, which is constantly and simultaneously expanding and deepening integration between individual countries, is now being called into question. The debt crisis shook the Eurozone and stopped the adoption of the common currency in new member states. The migration wave led to a violation of Schengen norms and blocked the expansion of the free movement zone. Brexit set a precedent by expressing the will of the majority in a country to leave the Union after decades of undisputed desire to expand and adopt to dozens of European countries. In parallel, the attempt of a coup in the Republic of Turkey, the subsequent repression and the sharpening of relations between Turkey and key Western allies, pose direct risks to the Bulgarian national security. And something worse is undermining the credibility of NATO, as the main guarantor of our security, in broad layers of our population. These crisis processes are developing in a crisis international environment in the Black Sea basin and Eastern Europe. There has been a severe, unknown militarisation of Crimea and Ukraine, unknown since before the end of the cold war. Instability in the Middle East and Turkey, arrogant and aggressive foreign policy behaviour of the Russian Federation, combined with a never-been anti-European media campaign, not only in Bulgaria, but also with the extremely disturbing phenomenon of the emergence of paramilitary organizations on Bulgarian territory, a deep crisis that covered most of our neighbours in the Western Balkans. Dear colleagues, it is understandable that in these times Bulgarian citizens feel less secure. They feel more hesitant in the geopolitical elections Bulgaria has made, they feel more confused about which are the correct political moves to get out of the crisis. It is understandable that new fears arise in our society. But it is not understandable, I would say, more unforgivable is the government, the people to whom the citizens with their voice have given all responsibility to all of us and those in charge, and the opposition that we exercise the supreme power in the parliamentary republic, to submit ourselves to these fears, to this uncertainty and to this confusion. It is particularly unacceptable for us to encourage these fears and plant new ones in the name of small election benefits. Today, both the main bearers of power and the leftist opposition behave as if the European Union and NATO were past, as if Bulgaria had gone back a century and in its development was an isolated small state, at the mercy of the great powers. They adopted a strategy of behavior of unilateral concessions and separate agreements, which even the then, a century ago, responsible Bulgarian rulers had rejected as low-spirited and infertile. When we speak of the strong, modern countries as great powers, I remember in 1883, when the Bulgarian delegation went to greet the new Russian Emperor Alexander III with his enthronement on the throne. And the Bulgarian representatives express their gratitude to the Russian people. Russian Foreign Minister Sazanov answers: "Thank you for testing animals as well. This is the attitude that a small country gets when it behaves like a small country when it sees the stronger of it as the great powers it must take into account. We strongly reject the bilateral negotiation policy with Turkey and Russia on issues concerning the common European policy. We also reject the truce with which we take for granted positions of the European Union and NATO or of individual leading countries when they do not defend the Bulgarian national interest enough. Today, not only for Russia and Turkey, but also for our allies, Germany, the United States, are not great powers. Our security, our political and economic goals and interests no longer require a policy of bowing and seeking balance. They require, as an equal member of NATO and the European Union, the most powerful military union and the most prosperous economic area in human history, to seek protection of the Bulgarian interest from the position of members of these unions. Yes, it is a fact that the European Union and NATO are in crisis. The fact is that their clumsy institutions and often the selfish position of their leading countries do not always meet our expectations and our needs. However, the answer to these problems is not isolation, but even less obedience to another's will. The answer is in an active policy within NATO and within the European Union, in finding allies among Member States having similar problems, in the skillful organisation of majorities and blocking quotas within the Union authorities, in the continuous pushing of processes towards more integration, stronger common will and more guarantees for weak and vulnerable Member States. Where Brussels, Berlin or Paris do not adequately protect our interest, there are naturally such moments, we must have an active policy of dialogue, compromises and building common positions with the countries of Visegrad and Pribaltica, with their neighbours from the Balkans, with the currently most affected European countries of the Mediterranean. Europe will survive this crisis, but for us Bulgarians, it is important that we benefit our security and economy from it. We must emerge from the crisis as a member of the Eurozone and of the Schengen area, not as a lag-back periphery of an increasingly consolidated Union. We must achieve the maximum for a common security, defence and energy policy where our geographical position makes us historically vulnerable. But here it is time to ask ourselves why this is not happening? Why is our voice weak in Europe? Why do our rulers have to complain about lack of understanding and solidarity? Maybe it's time to turn our eyes on domestic politics. For ten years Bulgaria has failed to be a true member of the Community of European Peoples, because it does not reach the standards of legality, justice, combating corruption, the rule of law at all, fails to adhere to the basis for Europe a principle of merit in the public service, to merit, qualities and labour as the only criteria for growth in society. We have repeatedly warned that failure to enforce the rule of law within the country threatens its external security. And today the time has come for the bitter conclusion: imitation of reforms in Bulgaria leads to imitation of solidarity from our partners. We have turned our European membership into a system for financing our state budget, but today this money cannot buy security, nor can they buy us an honest border police or uncorrupted magistrates and, above all, they cannot buy us trust, nor trust within society, nor trust among the partners who are the only guarantee of peace and prosperity. Foreign policy priorities are clear. The question is whether there is strength, courage and will to follow. They are achievable within NATO and the European Union. In domestic politics, we have yet to step into the path of sincere and deep reforms without which our society can neither obtain wealth nor security. Unlike other colleagues so far, I don't think it's right for me to dwell on the presidential election. Elections in Bulgaria have every year and they are usually used for two things: delaying heavy reforms and waste of public funds. In these two areas alone, we need to think about what kind of president is needed by the nation to defend the external priorities and a strong guarantee of reforms within the country. Thank you. [[Single applause from RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front has the floor of President Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u27	Are the DPS here?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u28	They're here, they're here!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u29	Oh, they're here. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The new geopolitical situation confronts Bulgaria with even more serious challenges and real dangers. Terrorism, renewed military opposition to the East-West axis, violent military conflicts in nearby regions, instability in neighbouring countries and the threat of new and new waves of migrants adventurous require timely and adequate response from all Bulgarian authorities and every responsible Bulgarian politician. The patriotic front will not use the complex situation and the difficulties Bulgaria faces for cheap party propaganda in view of the upcoming presidential elections, nor for unprincipled criticism of any action of the government. We appreciate the government's efforts to defend the Bulgarian national interest to our partners from the European Union in connection with the migrant crisis and support the request that Bulgaria be treated equally with the other two countries under strong migratory pressure - Italy and Greece. Bulgaria must clearly show that it will not allow it to be transformed into a border ghetto of the European Union into a quarantine camp for accommodation of visitors from all over the world. And more: Bulgaria must state that it unilaterally freezes the implementation of Dublin agreements and will not accept any of the people that European countries want to return to us until there is a single European policy to prevent illegal immigrants. In parallel, the Bulgarian government must ask the European Union for help in force, equipment, as well as serious funds for security at the external border of the European Union. The patriotic front strongly insists on securing the security of the Bulgarian border through the urgent completion of the protective facility (city) to the Black Sea and the deployment of additional forces of the Bulgarian army and police. The Bulgarian Parliament and the government must state that in case of necessity, force will be used to prevent the crowds of illegal adventurers in the territory of the sovereign Republic of Bulgaria. What do we mean by "powerfulness "? The use of all means of preventing the migrants in question must be understood, namely: physical force, technical means of deterring tear gas, water jets and firearms, shooting! During this parliamentary session, the Patriotic Front will still consistently implement its election programme. The primary task of the Coalition National Front for Salvation of Bulgaria remains the removal of the DPS and its branch of the Coalition not only from the power positions where they were held, but also from the political life of the country. [[Laughter]] The service of the interests of the Republic of Turkey, carried out by the DPS and uncovered by DOT and Kasim Dahl's political carriage [[Laughter]] , represent the most serious threat against the Bulgarian statehood and unity of the nation. For decades, the DPS, and recently the DSS, as well as the one run by the Turkish Religions Directorate, Dianet, Main Mufti use religion to alienate parts of the Bulgarian people, to suggest that religion, nationality and nation are the same and that if you are Muslim, then you are not a Bulgarian, but a Turk and not Bulgaria, and Turkey is your homeland. That's enough! In this regard, the Patriot Front will insist on the adoption of the Religions Bill, which prohibits the funding of religions from foreign countries, foundations and citizens, as well as the use of powerful sound arrangements in daily religious ceremonies and also the use of incomprehensible, excuse us, but for us I would say an unmembered language other than the Bulgarian one. The adoption of a second reading of our law banning burkas, feuds, as well as that against radical Islam is forthcoming. The task of the revival of the Bulgarian economy is also of paramount importance for the coalition Patriotic Front of NFSB and VMRO. We cannot be satisfied with the growth of economic indicators, the reduction of inflation and unemployment as a natural consequence of Bulgaria's two-year political stabilisation. We believe that in the past two years, almost nothing has been done in the direction of promoting and easing the activities of small and medium-sized businesses, but rather the opposite. Lobby amendments and laws that aggravate the situation of whole industries were openly adopted, and those parts of them that work in full compliance with the law simply because they are transparent. Such were, for example, the Law on concessions, the Law on Public Procurement, some amendments to the Law on Energy and especially the amendments to the Law on Tax Warehouses and excise duties. The latter hit over 1000 small distillation sites, the so-called village cauldrons, followed by bankruptcies and mass protests, and notice, of registered and licensed, i.e. the law-abiding owners of small businesses. The shadowy part of the industry is sixfold greater than the light part of the industry, which remains unaffected by the restrictions, but will probably remain faithful and grateful to the government. The patriotic front will insist on the adoption of a second reading of the bill, returning the old working conditions to small objects for distillation, and rejecting the bill of government, introducing even heavier restrictions, which will wipe out the entire industry. For us, Mr. Tsvetanov, this is unacceptable. The heavy state of Bulgarian energy is a topic that will continue to be subject to extreme attention on the Patriotic Front. Once again, we state that it is unacceptable for us to increase the price of electricity and we insist on the urgent termination of the unfavorable contracts with the US TPP. We consider it inappropriate and irresponsible to place an agenda on issues related to long-reserved, idiotic energy projects that carry only losses for the state and consumers for decades to come, but on the other hand, providing profits from large commissions to well-known political brokers. During the new political season, the patriotic front will continue its policy on legislative changes and control over the executive power in terms of combating domestic crime, terrorizing entire areas of the country and affecting particularly strongly the territories with compact gypsy population. In gypsy ghettos, the laws of the state are replaced by the laws of the jungle, and political parties and benevolent NGOs suggest that ethnics have only rights but not obligations! This creates outbreaks of growing criminal crime. The attacks on employees of the Ministry of Interior and medical workers from the Ministry of the Interior became a daily life. Assaults and abuse over defenseless elderly people, too! The patriotic front insists that the state and statehood return to these ghettos and will introduce laws to extend the rights of self-defense to the use of weapons, as well as to increase sanctions for attacking defenceless people and their property. Among the priorities of the Patriotic Front will also be the adoption of the Law on Bulgarians abroad, as well as of the Law on Selection Service and Reserve. Dear colleagues, we have a presidential election ahead of us. More than a month ago, the Patriotic front of NFSB and VMRO, first of the parliamentary represented forces, raised its presidential couple as a demonstration of our desire to fight honorary and fair election, to unite in the name of national interests. At present, however, we have no one to fight with. We consider this a high appreciation for the qualities of our couple, but we sincerely hope to know the names of your presidential couples soon, because for us, the official victory is half a victory. And now a message: on September 7th at 12:00 in Dobrich we will find a monument sponsored by us by the great Bulgarian General Ivan Kolev, the savior of Dobrich and Dobrudja in 1916. [[Applause from PF, single applause from GERB.]] We invite all the patriots to this light event. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u30	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Bulgarian Democratic Center "People's Union," co-chair Rumen Yonchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, we are launching a particularly important session of the Forty- Third National Assembly, and this is not only because, within its frameworks, this National Assembly will end its second anniversary and, contrary to the initial expectations, it is about to prove its ability to exist and do its work, but more importantly, the next few months are charged with a specific political context dictated by the presidential elections, as well as serious expectations of society to complete legislative reforms in some of the main areas on which we have worked in these two years, mostly in justice and in the fight against corruption. The political situation, in which the National Assembly resumes its work, is mostly of an external nature. That can't help but have an impact on our work. Our country is located in an extremely complicated and restless region. Near us, the two sharpest conflicts in today's world are crossing the unwinding tensions from the east and the uncontrolled expansion of chaos to the south. The concussions in our neighbors only heighten the sense of crisis of the situation and make the challenges facing us greater. For the first time after more than a century Bulgaria is once again becoming a border between two civilizations: between the coming Middle Eastern military Islam and the European and Christian values that constitute the foundations of our country; a border between the modern European democracy that we chose 25 years ago, and the authoritarianism of the Eastern type, which we should remember well. We of the BCCI Parliamentary Group are aware of these dangers and are ready to do everything in our power as MPs to defend Bulgarian national interests in this complex and dynamic situation. It is time to be not left and right, not blue and red, but above all Bulgarians, to protect our country from the storms that rage around us! We call on all parliamentary political forces to follow not their ideological friends in the East and West, not their own phobias and political interests, but only the interest of the Bulgarian and the stability of the region in which we live. We expect from the President and the government a clear and consistent policy devoid of emotions and ideologies, and we state our willingness to strongly support all actions in this direction. The National Assembly faces the particular task of providing conditions for the normal and democratic holding of the presidential and vice-presidential elections. We hope that the parliamentary tribune will not be turned into an election instrument in the course of the campaign and that the presidential debate will be delivered outside of this House among the people and at the election meetings where it belongs. The passions for the amendments to the Election Code have ended and in the course of this session the National Assembly must return to its normal and pressing work. We are aware that this will not be in the power of all politicians, but it will show the ability of many to divide and bear their responsibilities. The legislative work cannot be delayed and we of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union also have our priorities. For more than a year now, the agenda of the Forty-third National Assembly has been dominated by the topic of Justice, the fight against corruption and internal affairs. The amendments to the Constitution, to which we devoted not a little parliamentary time, are already a fact. They created the basis for the amendments adopted at the end of last session in the Constitutional Laws. Although some political forces have tried to turn reform into an endless and painful process to justify their own existence, it has greatly progressed in legislative terms. We at the National Assembly expect from the Minister of Justice and Government a proposal to amend and supplement procedural laws. We have also tabled our proposals in this direction, which we are ready to stand up for in plenary. It is time to put an end to the hysteria surrounding our justice system, to give a clear legislative horizon to the thousands of magistrates who are working in it, so that we can also expect fruit from the reform. The Bulgarian Democratic Center of the People's Union will do everything possible to prevent the adoption of the Law on the Prevention of Corruption on the High Levels of Power from becoming a victim of the usual populism and irresponsible attitude to the legislative process. We are aware that many are preparing to repeat the hysteria surrounding the adoption of amendments to the Constitution, but we are confident that society should not be re-exposed to the same scenario, the aim of which is not to adopt quality laws, but to bend hands and political bargaining. Although we supported this Law at first reading, we have serious reservations about a number of non-working, purely populistic and largely unconstitutional texts and will stand up for our proposals and objections. Bulgaria needs an effective Anti-Corruption Act, not an apology note to our European partners. It is pointless every time to ignore what has been done, to shut down, to transform, to eventually kill institutions that have just earned, only to imitate reforms. At the same time, it is high time for the National Assembly to work fully, not to turn the Constitutional Court into a second Chamber of Parliament. It is irresponsible to pass the laws... a fruit of political agreements and pressure, and to expect then constitutional judges to finish our work. The frequent referral of this institution on the occasion of newly adopted laws in recent months does not speak well about Parliament's work. Undoubtedly, a major part of our work in the forthcoming session will also be devoted to the budgetary procedure for 2017. For us from the National Union, understanding that this is the most important law of the year is not a cliché. Naturally, as a group not participating in the ruling majority, it would be easier to vote against everything. This is what the cliché imposed on us by the so-called "Levi" - the so-called "right" - by the self-proclaimed opposition and not the very clear majority composition. When it comes to the budget of the state, we have no intention of participating in the competition which is pó opposition. Not because there are a lot of players in this race from different directions, but because that's not what society expects of us and it's not for the benefit of the people who sent us to this room. For those who choose the easy path of the ideologies of left and right politics, I will say that the budget is the solution of a fairly simple mathematical equation in which the fates and money of millions of Bulgarians are involved. Like any task, the correct answer is only one and it is not colored in party decorations. However, we will be very careful to monitor the decision that the rulers are offering us, because it can be both long and wasteful and fast and effective. The BCC will support those decisions that take into account and protect the interests of the millions of taxpayers, which promote and protect the doing of business and the development of our economy. This is how we understand our work as MPs and how we will continue to do it. It may sound a little colorless, but it's true. Finally, allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly Parliamentary Group, to wish a successful session of the National Assembly and of all Members of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BDZ-NS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Yonchev. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party, Ataka " has the floor of its President Volen Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will start directly with the important themes that stand before us the political elite and the state leadership of Bulgaria. There are two: the danger of migratory flows that are already destroying Europe's identity, i.e. Bulgaria's, we are Europe, we can even say creators of European values; and the danger of a military conflict in Europe, precisely in Europe. For confirmation I will quote an American analyst, he is the founder of the agency "Stratefor" George Friedman says, here even some should stand on their feet when mentioning that name. He says so: "Prepare for war." The title of his interview. Then he says: "It seems to me that in the future Europe will be involved not in major wars, as earlier, but there will be times of war. The Europeans will die in wars. George Friedman, Stratfor Agency. Here I end with the quotes because such American analysts as Friedman, Huntington, Brzezinski are not clairvoyants and prophets, they simply express the view of the American establishment, which is about to burn wars in Europe. At the moment there is such a cluster of troops and fighting technique on, so to speak, the eastern border of Russia, which has not been since Hitler's time. This is a topic which is unfortunately avoided by the Bulgarian media and by the European media. Why this is about another analysis, but it is a fact. While the migrant issue is being commented, even now the Bulgarian government is putting it in one way that I will praise, I will admire it, as I soon heard from the mouth of the Bulgarian prime minister arguments that party "Attack" we used in our election battles. This is what we're talking about. The Bulgarian prime minister said a few days ago: "For refugees or migrants, the Bulgarian state gives more money than the average to the pensioners. This was our election message and I lived to hear it as an argument from the Prime Minister's mouth. This is good, as they say, we find it with great satisfaction, but it is not enough. From then on, the position taken by the Bulgarian government is becoming stronger. We see, thank God, at last, late, but it still becomes so with regard to Brussels. We heard, we read, although you did not allow the Prime Minister here to be heard, this was a good proposal, he could come here, explain what talks were held in Brussels and what Bulgaria expects in the coming weeks and months. It is imperative to do one way or another. However, this topic, the migrant theme, cannot be clarified if the main reason is not stated, the source for which this crisis is currently shattering Europe. The source is the insane foreign policy actions of the United States in the Middle East. This must be said clearly by European leaders, otherwise there will be no solution to the migrant issue. Without this emancipation of Europe from the United States, there cannot be a single European policy. We have heard many speakers here, even those who are fanatical worshipers of European integration, and they are even already talking critically about Europe. Europe and NATO were in crisis. Yeah, they're in crisis, that's obvious. We've been talking about this for years. The Bulgarian government has already spoken. Another quote from the Bulgarian Prime Minister: I do not see in Europe the prospect of solving the problem of the migrant crisis. Well, if those aren't Eurosceptic words, I don't know what they are. That is, common sense and already the instinct to preserve Bulgaria has spoken in Bulgarian government. That's what we need to support. Here it has already been said by my colleagues from the Patriotic Front that playing interparty battles is not only unnecessary luxury, it is dangerous and harmful. In a situation of crisis, in a situation of war, literally the domestic party battles in the country are not useful. That is, we must be united around a policy in which to do everything possible to protect Bulgaria. We see already steps in this direction, we must support them. We do not care who is left or right, we should support the protection of Bulgaria. In this regard, we need to continue the actions and legislative proposals that "Attack" has made over the years. Now we hear them from our colleagues at the Patriotic Front, too. This needs to become a policy of the people responsible for building a firewall. This is a proposal that has been in the National Assembly for years now. Can be edited, can be updated and completed. To make sure that our protection against invading migrants is guaranteed. No one can object to that. We must protect our country. In terms of military danger, however, not only is it not spoken, but it is not acting. The president so far has done enough to make the situation worse by acting as a hawk. We strongly hope, believe and work on the issue that Bulgaria will already have a president with clear patriotic orientation, one who will not listen to superiors anywhere outside the country, but will only work for the protection and sovereignty of Bulgaria. Such a president, such a presidential couple, has already been broadcast by the parliamentary groups of the Patriotic Front and "Attack" "the two formations which we alone in this Parliament do not have a European alliance to give directives, guidelines and orders. That is why we are acting under the Bulgarian alliance, that is, what our inner conviction of patriots tells us to do the possible and give this example. Even before the summer vacation, we aired a presidential couple, it has already been declared and the two political formations in parliament stand behind it. This example was not followed by the other parties. We still see that the big political forces are not aware of their applications. This may be a personnel crisis, this may be an ambiguity in thinking, in the geopolitical thinking of these parties. We can still help them point to the right direction and direction. This is the protection of Bulgaria, more sovereignty of Bulgaria, less listening in the already confused signals from Brussels. I see that this is already done by the state leadership and I repeat: it must be supported by absolutely all parties in Bulgaria. In a moment of crisis, we must all be united. It's mine that we see, no matter who attacks me, accuses or criticizes me for making a political compromise. I make a political compromise, not a political compromise, but I point out what the state responsible politician should be in Bulgaria and the politician who follows common sense, not the one who uses intrigues in a crisis situation. The crisis also gives us an opportunity. It's an old Chinese saying that every crisis gives a new chance. Bulgaria's chance in this crisis... A moment ago, one of the speakers was talking here that there were no great powers, and we're all partners. That's not true. He's got great powers, he's got imperial interests, and right now these interests are bumping into each other. This clash also takes place on the territory of Bulgaria. I'll tell you something that jumps from the media, but it's very disturbing for me. Nuclear weapons are being moved from the base to Turkey in Romania. This is why European media have already written. The Bulgarian media did not bring this up, unfortunately. There are specialists here military, senior military, who can say that even at the time when Bulgaria was a Soviet satellite over our territory there was no nuclear weapon. We now face the danger of nuclear weapons being transported by land, because this is how our partners will make the Americans land to be transported to the Romanian base. This is 50-60 km from the Bulgarian border. It's extremely dangerous because it makes us a target. On the territory of Bulgaria there are four US military bases, in which we under contract notice, under a contract concluded during the three coalitions under contract Bulgaria has no right to know what is imported and exported to these bases. That is, by moving this nuclear weapon through Bulgaria, nothing has cost the Americans to leave one and another unit in their bases where they are sovereign masters. This is extra-sterial territory. This automatically makes us the target of another imperial power. Russia, which already frankly says it, she said it to the Romanians: "A, you put such and such devices there, just so you know that you are already under target. We're telling you right now that you're already under attack there. The same will apply to Bulgaria. Do we want to be under the threat of this is the question of the Bulgarian political elite? If we do not want to support the efforts of the Bulgarian government together again, not to split, not one to say: more NATO, more arms and the prime minister to say: "We don't need arms, I want sailboats, tourists. Yeah, he's right about that. The Black Sea should not be an outbreak of tension. Let's work this way. In this session, if the Bulgarian Parliament broadcasts such a message, it will win the respect of the people. If we say that we do not want dangerous weapons, weapons of mass destruction to pass through Bulgarian territory and Bulgarian territory, and in no way will we allow this, if we are partners with the United States, we have the right to our independence. Then we will be respected as politicians, Parliament will raise its low rating for the moment. These are the main dangers I have outlined, ladies and gentlemen. I hope we think about them this session and act, not just think. It'll make us more responsible. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Alternative for Bulgarian Revival, the word is Vice-President Mariana Todorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u35	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! All of us today are actually facing a common challenge to regain the feeling that Bulgaria is a stable parliamentary republic. This task applies not only to the new political season, but also in a horizon far beyond it. That is precisely what the National Assembly is about. In the year we celebrate the 25th anniversary of the establishment of the Bulgarian Constitution, we witness serious civic activity. Signatures for national civic initiatives in different fields are being submitted. They are related to the functioning of the state, to the change of the political model, to a change in thinking about institutions at all. Even the doubt that these signatures are sometimes organised in a corrupt manner, for other purposes, is no reason to put this matter behind us. The responsibility for filling the National Assembly with the meaning as an institution which the Constitution gives it lies with all the parties forming and supporting the government and the opposition. We must no longer create the impression of dismantled and depersonalized institutions so that they can regain their trust and strengthen statehood. There are several necessary conditions for this. Firstly, from the ABB, we believe that stability in the legislative environment excludes constant changes in legislation, work per piece without clear vision and disagreement with the requirements of the new Law on Legislative Acts. At the same time, well-written laws often do not see their realization for purely political and conjunctural reasons. All this leads to the inability to implement the law effectively and opens wide the door to doubt that lobbying interests are being promoted. It is good to think again of a flexible and working structure as a Council on Law at the National Assembly. The return of prestige to parliament, according to the ABB, also means taking responsibility for it to take positions on important issues. Unfortunately, it never came to plenary the declaration of Bulgaria's non-participation in new military formations and military actions in Southeast Europe and the Black Sea, submitted by the parliamentary group of the ABC. We also do not understand the behaviour of the military minister and the lack of concern about the Bulgarian Air Force's inability to carry out the airspace security mission of the Republic of Bulgaria on their own. It is important to elect a guide and members of the regulatory authorities with an expired mandate. The National Assembly must not give the impression that it deliberately holds such important institutions without an updated composition or that only representatives of the groups supporting the government are broadcast in it, obviously or indirectly. In the current political season, two key events will take place for the country. The election of a president of the Republic and a referendum concerning the political system. These elections can establish balance in society, or destabilize it more, against the backdrop of the migrant threat and the growing fear of terrorism and military action. ABB will stand for changing the model in the presidential institution in order to return its important self-respect role. Bulgaria needs an independent and authoritative head of state who will not cause confusion between the institutions, but will be able to be an effective and objective corrective of their political life as a whole. The efforts made by the ABB to create a strong coalition on the left to motivate and encourage many people to achieve a change in the presidential institution have proved to be without result. The lack of predictability and consistency in the leadership of the Socialist Party led to the destruction of the emerging unity for these elections on the left. It is this leadership that is responsible for this decision. In the upcoming presidential elections, the ABB will stand behind a worthy and competent candidate who is able to rise above party differences and interests. The ABB calls on the Bulgarian voters for mass participation in the upcoming referendum and in support of all three issues. Although we have some differences with their authors, we systematically defend the right of Bulgarian citizens to be questioned on important issues. We regret that the National Assembly rejected our legislative proposals and the current law continues to make almost impossible the success of the referendums. We can expect that the opponents of the referendums as a whole will now purposefully aim to wear them down and belittle them in order to block this important democratic instrument. Fellow Members, the authority of the National Assembly depends both on healthy and respectable relations in the majority and on correct relations between majority and opposition. The ABB sees the concept of "opposition" not as a malicious opposition at all costs, but as an alternative and constructive of the proposed ideas, policies and solutions. During the new season the ABB will continue to be an opposition as Bulgaria needs not degradable and impulsive as we often see in parliament, but one that is ready to seek national agreement on important issues and to present real and feasible alternatives. Today, at the beginning of the new season, the ABB again says that the government is losing pace to work on some of the important problems of society. Areas such as security, foreign policy, healthcare, education, energy, stimulating businesses have already entered a critical phase and need a rapid rethink of policies, including changing ministers. If this does not happen in a timely manner, the issue of early parliamentary elections will again be up to date. In this sense, in the National Assembly we will participate in the development of: a parliamentary position for further actions related to the huge failures of the NPP and the adoption of a comprehensive strategy for energy development; the adoption of a Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and the Bulgarian Village; a package of laws to improve social policy, reduce poverty and improve demographic trends; policies in the sector. We will hold the National Assembly to rule on our proposals for declarations to reduce military tensions and to prevent ratification of the Free Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada before the Prime Minister is heard and before we get acquainted with the government's analysis of the impact of this agreement on the Bulgarian economy. Once again, we insist that the President convene a National Security Advisory Council to make Bulgaria's clear and consensual positions on the crisis with illegal immigrants and on increased tensions in the Black Sea region. Bulgaria must realise and defend its interest and stop repeating positions of foreign countries. We are part of the European Union and NATO and we are involved in making their decisions. On behalf of the ABC Parliamentary Group, I wish for a successful session in which to give what Bulgarian citizens expect of us. Thank you. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Todorova. With this, colleagues, the statements on behalf of the parliamentary groups on the occasion of the new autumn session and the start of the new political season have been completed. Now I suggest that we interrupt, then continue with the legislative part of our weekly programme. The sitting was held at 11.25. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u37	I invite the Members of the National Assembly to plenary the time for interruption is over. Point one of our weekly program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE COMMERCIAL LAW. Importer of the Council of Ministers. Reports have been submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. We will first hear the report of the leading Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016. At its meeting held on 6 July 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016. Madam President, I apologise, but I will interrupt reading this report because I have failed to make an access procedure. I propose that the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Micheva be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u39	Colleagues, I am voting on the motion for admission to the House of Deputy Minister Micheva. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. We can't put together a quorum. Abort the vote. There's no quorum. Later, I will put the same procedural proposal to the vote. Proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u40	Thank you, Madam President. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Justice Vergenia Micheva, and Mrs. Valya Gigova lawyer. The bill was presented by Mrs. Micheva, who pointed out that it aims to limit the cases of abuse of entries, deletions and announcements in the Trade Register by introducing two consecutive notarial certifications of the signature and the content of documents reflecting: the transfer of an undertaking or company shares, the minutes of the meetings of the general meetings, the decisions for acceptance and exclusion of partners, consent to transfer a company share to a new member, the selection of a manager and documents certifying the disposal of real estate. It is envisaged that the registration officials of the Registry Agency shall carry out a mandatory verification of the availability of certified notary documents in the electronic system of the Notary Chamber, and shall also provide for their administrative criminal liability. The bill also contains amendments to the Law on Notaries and Notary Activities, which govern the calculation of a simple fee for the certification of signature and content, and replaces the obligation of notaries to keep originals of the documents submitted for certification. The proposed changes create Part Five in the Commercial Law with the name of a salesman's Stabilisation Procedure and lay down in detail the grounds for the opening of stabilisation proceedings, its termination, rejection and appeal, the assumptions in which the proceedings are not applicable, and the rights and obligations of all parties and participants. All steps in the preparation and validation of the stabilisation plan, its action against the interested parties, as well as the consequences of the stabilisation proceedings on possible insolvency proceedings, are described in detail. With regard to insolvency proceedings, the Bill introduces a presumption of insolvency, the purpose of which is to facilitate the proving of insolvency and to speed up proceedings. The draft law also includes the alignment of the rules of cashing in the insolvency proceedings with the rules of public sales under the Civil Procedure Code by exempting the buyer from the obligation to submit the full sale price when there is a counterclaim and the possibility of the creditors themselves taking part in the cashing of the property, ensuring that they are able to object and appeal to the distribution bill. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Petar Slavov and Emil Dimitrov. On Mr. Slavov's question Mrs. Gigova clarified that the bill aims to create a stricter form for the validity of those documents, which are most important and most relevant to the rights of the partners, such as the change of manager, asset orders, sale of shares and decisions for disposal of real estate. She pointed out that the proposed form of certification of signature and content by a notary guarantees the preservation of an original in the notary and hence the effective demand for responsibility by the manager, while simultaneously creating legal certainty in the relationships between the partners, on the one hand, and the partners and the management body, on the other. In the discussion it was stressed that the preservation of the original of the act subject to entry is a necessary condition in order to be able to seek criminal liability from the applicant because at the moment the copy of documents is stated, but not the documents in the original, which can only be subject to a criminal offence. She assured that the registration officer's obligation to check in the electronic system of the Notary Chamber is a means of reducing the abuse in the notary books of the notary. On the occasion of the concerns about the cost of production, it was noted that § 21 of the Bill explicitly provides for a change in the Law on notaries and notarial activities, providing for payment of a simple fee for the certification of signature and content of documents to be entered in the Commercial Register. Members of the National Assembly Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov expressed their support for the bill and united around the opinion that some of the texts should be refined. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u41	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedural proposal for the admission of Deputy Minister Micheva to the Chamber. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Mr. Kanev, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u42	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016. At its regular meeting held on 13 July 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law. The meeting was attended by Vergenia Micheva Deputy Minister of Justice and lawyer Valya Gigova member of the Working Group on the Bill at the Ministry of Justice. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Vergenia Micheva. She noted that it foresees changes in two guidelines: one is measures against the theft of companies, and the second is the creation of proceedings for stabilisation of traders, which Bulgaria should introduce in relation to the recommendations of the European Commission for a new approach to the bankruptcy and bankruptcy of enterprises. The bill provides for the introduction of two consecutive notary certifications of the signature and of the content of documents by which the enterprise is transferred as a set of rights, obligations and factual relations and documents with which company shares are transferred and decisions are taken from the joint meetings of the partners in Ltd. The decisions to accept and exclude partners, giving consent to transfer a company share to a new member, choice of manager, decisions to acquire and alienate real estate and property rights over them. The registration officials of the Registry Agency will be required to check the certified documents in the Information System database. The Law provides for the Registry Agency to be responsible for the damage caused to natural and legal persons by unlawful acts, acts or omissions of registration officials under the Law on State Responsibility and Municipalities for Damage. Part Five is hereby established, which allows for more and more effective measures to prevent bankruptcy by rescuing the undertaking, including where there is a real risk of insolvency. The objective is to establish an effective procedure with the possibility of an agreement reached prior to the opening of insolvency proceedings, to negotiate restructuring of liabilities, to create conditions for the rescue and stabilisation of the undertaking and to continue its activities. The Bill sets out the grounds for initiating stabilisation proceedings and identifies traders who will be entitled to use the procedure. All steps in the preparation and validation of the stabilisation plan, its action against interested parties, the consequences of non-compliance and the possibilities for destruction, as well as the hypotheses in which the proceedings should be terminated shall be settled. After the presentation of the bill the people representative Zhelyo Boychev asked what with this procedure gives more reason for security and if there are any opinions from the branch organizations. Lawyer Gigova replied that under the current Commercial Law all certifications are only certification of the signature. The draft amendment to the Commercial Law provides for validation not only of the signatures but also of the content of the document in cases where undertakings and companies are transferred. In such cases, a copy of the contract will be kept in the archive of the notary. On the second issue, asked by the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev, she noted that almost all branch organizations participated in the Working Group on the Law. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u43	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, the debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in the draft law? The first one will be able to speak Mr. Nastimir Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll support the bill, but I have a lot of comments on it. There's some nonsense. In general, the provisions against the theft of companies entering, I think will complicate the entire registration procedure for new companies. I do not see the proposals to stop the theft of companies, which is mainly due to a lack of connection between a notary and a register. It is much more sensible to strengthen the changes already made to the instantaneous exchange of data between the notaries and the Trade Register, the so-called Electronic Notary and if we direct the efforts in this direction, I think this measure will be much more effective with the fight against the theft of companies. And I'm going to mention a few more things. For example, § 5 for art. 657 provides for the order of the court in which a trade union is dismissed to be subject to a cassation appeal. This will generally load up the VCC, and it is not clear why it is done. Nor is the request required to meet the requirements of art. 280, para. 1. Another, which is disturbing, there is one provision, of course, if § 9 is accepted as art. Article 694 is amended as follows: 693 to properly reflect the reference to art. 694. So this must be corrected if this paragraph is adopted. Another remark I have sets out the obligations for the trader to declare all his property as a big problem there is that he must provide an assessment of his non-cash claims. And the law doesn't predict who actually makes that assessment. We say it must be done, and the law does not say who will make this assessment. If, of course, we decide who's going to do it and if the procedure is very complicated and expensive, it will negate the entire procedure as a whole. Another remark. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 772 is the case that the court appoints a trusted person for the opening of The problem is that there is no rule of production without a trusted person. This means that the smallest, family companies, small businesses we oblige to have such a trusted person who, of course, must be a qualified lawyer. This will cost money, it will be more expensive, but we do not have an option, we do not have a procedure that allows the smallest companies, for example, to make this production without such a trusted person. From there, of course, it will become slower and more expensive, rather than faster and cheaper. There are also a few other things that concern me, but I will generally support the Law and I will make proposals between the readings related to what I have said and several others that I will provide in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ananiev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mr. Kanev, Peter Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u46	Dear colleagues, our parliamentary group will support the Law. The law, although leading is the Legal Commission, concerns largely the development and business climate in the country. The problem with embezzling companies is very old. We rely on that, after the amendments to this Law, to a large extent, this practice will break down. In the Commission, we had debates on several topics. We will strongly support the proposal to transfer enterprises under art. 15 of the Commercial Law to be done with a contract with a notary certification of the signature and the content. We also support the decision to choose the managements................................................................................................ 137, para. 1 and so on. We're worried about some of the importers' suggestions. For example, the proposal that the minutes of the General Assembly of Associates with a decision to determine the remuneration of a manager released from liability be subject to notary certification. For us it is absolutely unacceptable, at least at this stage we rely here on the capacity and competence of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is unacceptable for the decision to accept a partner, transfer a share, deal with property, all of this to be certified further, which is essentially the proposal, since the contracts themselves with which these actions are carried out are subject to a notary certificate and certification. In fact, there was a hypothesis that this was done to increase the volume of work of the notaries, as we almost tilted the scales in favour of the lawyers. This is hardly the motive for the adoption of these amendments, but I again appeal to the Committee on Legal Affairs.. Between first and second reading there is enough time to make reasonable proposals so that we do not burden the Bulgarian business with unnecessary duplicate notary certifications. I repeat once again, we will support the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u47	Replices to Mr. Peter Kanev? Mr. Kirilov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Petar Kanev, in principle, I fully support your speech. I asked for a reply with a view to the reference and commitment that you have made with regard to colleagues from the Legal Committee. Yes, and in the debates of the Legal Committee, sufficient opinions and opinions have been expressed to lead us to the belief that a lengthy period is needed for proposals between first and second readings, including careful analysis of these proposals. I refuse to comment on your assumption regarding the possible collision between the two bills. We have also expressed skepticism in our debates regarding the amount of notary fees, but we have received assurances and comforts that this is not proportional, but the simple fee. That is, the business will be charged minimally with additional expenses. I fully support your reasoning on the need for a broader and slower debate on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u49	Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Peter Kanev? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you are, Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u50	Thank you, Madam President. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front will support this bill. Besides, I mean, he's pretty late. We are not convinced that this Bill will achieve its goal if we are to be honest, but it is necessary and we therefore support it. I would just like to draw attention to a fact that my colleague Petar Kanev started but did not further develop. In fact, the certification will create a huge business problem because a large part of the notaries, honourable colleagues, are actually refusing to perform their function because of, so to speak, lack of interest. I can give you an example that in Sofia notarizing a power of attorney is almost impossible, for the simple reason that the modest fee of 6 BGN. is not of interest to the notary. For this humble reason, it becomes impossible for you to validate a power of attorney. That is exactly what the certification fee and the relevant document from the General Assembly will be. I mean, the business will be set up... Believe me, it happened to me this summer at £6. I've paid 80 leva. For two powers of attorney, because they had to go through a lawyer to do my job, otherwise I never got a chance to get to a notary. I will not explain the disparaging attitude of these so-called grand functionaries who by law have become millionaires and still have to carry out, and there is no control of their activities. Therefore, here are our great doubts that business is actually not only going to be difficult, but it will not even have a chance and a chance to perform this certification. So in this direction, I turn to the Ministry of Justice to get into function, having this opportunity now, for stricter control over notaries. I'd appreciate it if you could do a thorough background check to see how many notary offices there are in which there aren't really notaries, but lawyers. Well, it's a good thing lawyers sit around and do people's jobs. Here is the direction of many people are criticizing the Law on Law in this direction, but it is good that in small settlements there are lawyers who have committed themselves to doing this work. That's what I wanted to share and pay attention to. Perhaps when the Legal Committee examines the Bill at second reading, it will also have this thing in mind. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u51	Replices to Mr. Bayraktarov? I won't. Are there any other Members of the National Assembly willing to take part in the draft discussion? I won't. The debate is closed, we move on to the first vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Commercial Law, No 602-01-31, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 14 June 2016. 120 MPs voted: 118, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. The next item in our weekly program is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MILITARY POLICE. There has been a report from the leading Committee on Defence, as well as from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Committee on Legal Affairs, as accompanying. The report of the Defence Committee will be presented to us by its President Mr. Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, allow me to proceed with the procedure I propose that the Deputy Minister of Defence Orhan Ismailov and General Serdov be admitted to the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u53	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission of the guests to the Chamber. Vote 108 MPs: 105 against 3, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u54	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. At a meeting held on 14 July 2016, the Defence Committee examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. In the decision of the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly is proposed to examine and adopt the Bill, stating in the reasons that the purpose of the proposals for amendments and additions of the existing since June 2011. The Military Police Act is to bring the overall organization and activity of the Military Police in line with the changes in the regulations of the security, defence and public policy over the last few years. In addition, it is reasoned that the current Military Police Act creates prerequisites for the failure to carry out in full certain military activities in operational and search activities, escorting and security, the use of weapons, aids and physical force, specific activities in the activities carried out by the Military Police Office. The meeting was attended by 15 MPs. Opinion on the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. The Chairman of the Defence Committee supported the draft Law and noted that without giving additional powers to the Military Police and the amendments and additions to the Law, it would be able to carry out its military-police functions in full and meet the higher requirements based on improved professionalism of management and employees. People's representative Ianko Iankov pointed out that the separate Military Police Act, together with the adopted Military Intelligence Act, shows the importance that the legislator attaches to these two so important integrated services in the Ministry of Defence and thus shows their invaluable contribution to the overall national security and defence system. Speaking, the People's Representative Neno Vlaikov noted the appropriateness of the proposals for amendments and additions tabled. After the discussion, 15 MPs took part in a vote. With full consensus of 15 votes for the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 26, para. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to examine and adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u55	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We will now hear the report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Mr. Rumen Ivanov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. At its regular meeting on 20 July 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Defence "General Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister; Colonel Atanas Zaprianov. Dragan Draganov, Deputy Director of the Military Police Service, and Emil Kozhuharov, Head of the Legal Insurance Sector, Military Police. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Atanas Zaprianov. In recent years there have been changes in the regulations relating to the security, defence and public order sector. In 2014, a new Act on the Ministry of Interior (MVR) which regulates police activities in detail and in this regard it is appropriate that the basic principles and rules governing police activities, the Military Police Act correspond to the Ministry of Interior Act. Also, the practice of implementing the Military Police Act shows that some amendments and additions to it are needed for several main reasons. The law in force regulates the duties and powers of the authorities of the Service "Military Police" and of the soldiers of the military-police formations. The authorities of the service carry out all military-police activities in full and limited functions are assigned to the military-police formations. The proposed changes to the military-police formations are also assigned to escorting, escorting and guarding military vehicles of the respective military formations in order to ensure the more complete and timely performance of their functions. The proposed changes aim to create better coordination and interaction between the Military Police Office and the military police formations, while also clarifying their tasks. It is necessary to specify some of the norms relating to the operational and search activities of the Military Police Office, some of the security and escort activities, the use of weapons, assistance and physical strength by the authorities of the Office, actions related to police registration and identification to be regulated in detail in the Law and not in regulations such as the previous practice. There is a need to refine legal texts, which is consistent with the practice and from over the four-year period for the implementation of the law, as well as with the functions and tasks performed by the Military Police Office. The operational and search activities carried out by the authorities of the Office of the Military Police shall be regulated in detail. The provisions relating to the anti-terrorism activity, the conduct of checks and the activities of the police registration carried out by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior shall be reviewed. Texts regulating the activity carried out in the investigation of aviation accidents and military aircraft incidents shall be introduced. The cases and opportunities for the use of weapons and assistance from the authorities of the Office of Military Police and the servicemen of the military-police formations are very detailed and unconditionally introduced the principle of the......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will, on the one hand, protect the rights of the potential offenders and, on the other, contribute to the confidence in the performance of the duties by the authorities of the service. The legislative amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act of 2012 and to the new Ministry of Interior Act of 2014 introduced the standard................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Following the discussion the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 13 votes for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We will now also hear the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova is preparing to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u58	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. At its meeting on 6 July 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. The meeting was attended by: General Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister General Borislav Sertov, Head of Military Police Service, Colonel Emil Kozhuharov, Head of Legal Security Sector at the Military Police Service. The bill was presented by General Atanas Zaprianov. During the presentation and discussion of the bill, it was stated that the current Law regulated that the military police were built by the Military Police Service and directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence and by military police formations in the Bulgarian Army. The law regulates the duties and powers of the authorities of the service "Military police" and of the soldiers of the military police formations. The proposed changes aim to create better coordination and interaction between the Military Police Office and the military police formations, while also clarifying their tasks. There was a need for certain norms such as those relating to the operational and search activities of the Office of Military Police. Some of the security and escort activities, the use of weapons, assistance and physical strength by the authorities of the office, actions related to police registration and identification should be regulated in detail in the Law and not in regulations such as the previous practice. There was a need to refine legal texts, which is in line with the practice of over the four-year period of implementation of the Law, as well as with the functions and tasks performed by the Military Police Office and those to be implemented. The proposed Bill gives no more powers to the military police, does not change and does not extend the scope of the activities carried out. A higher level of protection of citizens' rights is achieved in relation to the collection and processing of their personal data. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Yavor Haytov, Mihail Mikov, Emil Dimitrov, Yavor Notev, Chavdar Georgiev, Petar Slavov. Support was expressed under the Bill, discussing issues concerning the interaction between military police and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, DANS, NSO, synchronization of regulations and possible collisions with existing norms in the Criminal Code, the Ministry of Interior Act and existing legislation. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. The debate is open. I expect the Members of the National Assembly who wish to take the attitude to give a sign of this. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A scandalous proposal for amendments to the Law. From what he sees in the texts, as the intention of a function of this military structure, we should not arm it with the statutory powers imposed, but simply shut it down. It is extremely worrying that it is the Minister of Interior who imports the changes, albeit in his other capacity, to a deputy prime minister. Of course, Boyko Borisov is at the heart of this strategy for transformation of non-existent activities for the Ministry of Defence, ignoring the Ministry of Interior. Such laws govern authoritarian regimes. On the one hand, the military police will exercise control over every Bulgarian citizen and commercial company, and on the other, what is happening in the parameters of the department will be under control and any kind of action of this office of the Ministry of Defence only from fire-library safety to investigation of aviation accidents with military aircraft, recruitment of voluntary collaborators, investigation, detention, use of force, use of assistance and weapons. The application of special intelligence means in no form shall be within the scope of a military office with an application to citizens. I repeat, not in terms of preventing, countering and investigating crimes within the Ministry of Defence, but with powers over every Bulgarian citizen. There is also a scandalous wording in the motives. The work on the preparation of expertise and expert reports and opinions from qualified and designated staff shall be regulated, as has been the practice so far, without full regulation. You, with this text, acknowledge that there are currently activities that have become practice without being legally regulated. Who is responsible for this? This Law is a step towards establishing out-of-control, attacking democracy. Do not allow yourself to create a structure that is empowered to violate civil rights and that arises from data, information flows or clues available only to the so-called Military Police, which is out of public control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Military Police Act, No 602-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 June 2016. We vote, fellow Members. Vote 91 MPs: 90 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with the third point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, based on the laws adopted in the first vote with importers: the first Draft Law Report for the second vote. Mr. Rumen Ivanov will present the report. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. Votes are coming up at second reading. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a proposal for admission to the Chamber of the following persons: from the State Commission on Information Security Boris Dimitrov President, and Miroslava Semkova Head of the Department of Legal and International Legal Activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u63	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests. Mr. Tsvetanov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Act for the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u65	Statements? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u66	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In 9a. carry out a study together with the security services and public order services in the cases referred to in art. 45a, para. 3 and issue or refuse permission to access classified information;
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u67	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1. Vote 95 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u68	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the 1. In para. 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers; 2. In para. 3, p. 1 the word "the ministers" is replaced by "the deputy prime ministers," the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u69	Statements on the Commission's proposal for a new § 2? I won't. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u70	Paragraph 1? a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov the proposal has been passed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u71	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 1 by importer, which becomes § 3 by report, in the version of the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u72	The proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position as a new § 5. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u73	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 2 by importer. We are voting on a proposal from the Commission. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u74	Paragraph 3? a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of Parliament? § 3 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov the proposal has been passed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u75	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group which the Commission does not support. [[Noise.]] We are voting on the proposal of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs. 100 MPs voted: 12, against 72, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 by importer, which shall become § 4. 100 MPs voted: 95 against 5, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u76	The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Chapter 5, Section II is created art. 45a: Art. 45a. (1) The study body shall make a written request to the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for carrying out an inspection of the surveyed person under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request shall be accompanied by the written consent of the researcher to carry out the verification. The Commission shall carry out a verification within 14 days of receipt of the request and send the result thereof to the study body and, in case of established involvement, to the DCCI and to the researcher. (2) When the surveyed person is identified, the study body, when different from the State Agency of National Security, shall immediately send the entire file to the State Agency of National Security, where the study is completed. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 11, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 15 where the researcher is identified, the study body shall carry out the study and send the entire file to the DCCI for decision under art. 9, p. 9a. (4) State Agency "National Security," respectively DXI "In the cases under para. 3: 1. consider the facts and circumstances contained in the result of the verification carried out under para. 1 with a view to assessing whether the surveyed person meets the requirements of art. 40, para. 1; 2. may request additional information and copies of documents from the Commission for disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, as well as from the surveyed person. (5) The appeal of the Commission's decision on disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army shall not stop the examination procedure under this law. (6) Check under para. 1 shall not be carried out where the research body is the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u77	Colleagues, on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 in the version proposed to us by the President of the Commission, are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the new § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: 98 against 6, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u78	The Commission proposes to create new § 6 and 7: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 3 § 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 52 is created. In cases referred to in Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013, the competent authorities of the Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union have access to
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u79	Statements, colleagues, on this proposal for the two new paragraphs of the Commission? I won't. We vote § 6 and 7. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the two new paragraphs has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u80	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u81	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u82	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u83	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the new § 8. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Unanimously accepted and this new § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u84	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer. The Commission proposes the following version of § 5, which becomes § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 59 the 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 words on a written proposal of the Information Security Officer shall be deleted. (b) c. 1 words in the verification under art. The text of this Decision is attached to this Decision. 2. Allinea 5 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u85	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 9 as presented to you in the report. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u86	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60 para. 5 is
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u87	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with its corresponding content on the report. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 10 has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u88	Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 6 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev and Peter "Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... Article 68 is amended as follows: Art. 68. (1) The decision of the DCCI shall be subject to appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court. (2) The appeal shall be lodged within 14 days to the Supreme Administrative Court, which shall rule within one month and its decision shall be final. (3) The complaint shall not be suspended and shall be dealt with under the rules of Chapter 12 of the Administrative Procedure Code, and the case shall be closed. (4) Access to the case in the proceedings and in the courtroom shall be granted to the parties, their proxy and to the persons to whom the President of the Chamber has authorised it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u89	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 10, against 71, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 which, after support and editing by the Commission, becomes § 11. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u90	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 7 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 69 words shall not be subject to appeal and shall be replaced by an appeal before a three-member panel of the Supreme Administrative Court and a sentence shall be created second: the decision of the Court shall be final.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u91	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 24, Against 55, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 12. They voted 101 MPs: 99, against 2, no abstentions. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u92	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the CPNS: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 88, para. 2 a sentence fourth is created: "They shall be subject to appeal before the DCCI in accordance with art. 62-67.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u93	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13 with its corresponding content on the report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u94	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 94c. 2 the words under the terms and conditions under Chapter 5 shall be replaced by the words under the terms and conditions laid down in art. 62-67 "..........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u95	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with its respective content on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u96	Proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov: A new § 7a is created with the following text: In the text of
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u97	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u98	The motion is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u99	Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 8 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u100	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 8. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to reject § 8 by importer is unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, second sentence, the words.............................................................................................. 62-68s shall be replaced by.. before DXI in accordance with Art. 62-68s. 62-67
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u102	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15 with its corresponding content on the report on the same. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u103	The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 132 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: For infringement under para. 1, carried out by the head of the organizational unit, the penalty is a fine from 200 to 2000 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u104	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16 with its corresponding content on the report. They voted 101 MPs: 97, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u105	Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 9 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Annex 2 to art. Art. 47, Art. 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In item XXXIII, the words........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. A new item XXIX shall be created: "XXX." Do you belong to the intelligence and security services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria within the meaning of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army? - No, no, no, - Yeah. - 3. So far, the XXIX becomes the XXX. 4. In the instructions, of course. 10 the words............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u106	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's no coincidence that we made an offer that §9 should be dropped. There are several reasons. I think that such a proposal is not at all in line with the current situation in terms of national security. Such anachronism, I think, should be long gone from our dialectics, especially here in plenary. Because, first of all, employees who worked in this period in these services hardly have left their jobs. Even if they stayed, their numbers are extremely small. What do I mean? You know, last time for the visits of the Prime Minister in Turkey and for the complicated situation in the Middle East, which directly concerns us, we need to work with staff who have some relations with what is happening in these regions and the consequences that we have for the Bulgarian state. To a large extent, it would make it difficult to work with a future and current agent apparatus. I think the futility of such a text does nothing but attempt to hunt witches again. I think that anyone who shows some common sense would support our proposal for such a text to be dropped. It is pointless from now on to introduce requirements in the services for workers there to sign declarations, to fill out questionnaires whether they belong to the services that worked between 9 September 1944 and 1991. What is this thing? What's the point, and what are we doing with this whole thing? Indeed, fellow Members, I am showing the initiative to call you for a little common sense and such a text to be rejected and naturally not to enter and not to become part of the bill, although the Commission has adopted it. I think you understand the complexity of the situation and the need for such texts to no longer be considered. Moreover, this is in line with our proposal for the next item with the Draft Law that this Commission will no longer exist and that it will actually go into the history of Bulgarian legislation and be used only for scientific purposes, where it is the place to stop playing with such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u108	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is indeed some sort of anachronism, because in principle and now, when an application for access to classified information is issued, the Commission shall carry out its own official verification of whether the applicant is a member of the relevant services. It is written in this way that it is uniformed whether you were a collaborator, whether you were a permanent employee, what your affiliation is, but it gives grounds for witch hunting after that, because once you wrote:..on the inside, no one cares anymore if you were a public servant, were you a snitch, as you were an agent, were you a trusted person, or did you have one card, which we will talk about in the next bill, which does not prove anything in your belongings. Please, let us not enter into things that do not relieve or create normality in relationships anyway. Moreover, as the previous speaker said, the only problem for future work in a tense environment is where the agent activity should be quite involved. And a purely semantic question: how do we understand the question: In my opinion, the old text, which it was, is significantly better and more accurate because it says: "In which ones? " and you are obliged to list in which organizations you are a member, without limitation whether they are secrets, formal, informal and other such. So we are really proposing that this text, this proposal be rejected and we are supporting our proposal that we have made. I ask you very much to comply with this thing, because I really ask again the first question: I am a member of a public organization, and that should be enough in my opinion. Or: I am a member of a non-public organization. In my opinion: "In which ones? " is the better question, which really includes the obligation to list them without ban. You may also miss after that, when it is established that you have failed to mention any organization in which you are a member, this is a reason why you should be further checked why you missed it by accident, whether it is intentional or whether you deserve further trust. Thank you for your attention. I suggest that this text is really dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u111	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you offer well, but before that you should have said that you were a little empathetic with these organizations, not for anything else, but out of respect for the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. People who have a conflict of interest should declare them from the stands of the National Assembly. That is what the Rules of Procedure require, and you should say that I, as an officer of the General Staff, have a conflict of interest and I do not wish this issue to exist, for example, on this list. I completely understand, and I would accept that. The other thing. Indeed, Mr. Ermenkov, you say a witch hunt. And if the witches are in the national security system, shouldn't they at least be located and indicated where these witches are? And if we catch them, that depends on the will of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u112	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u113	Dear Mr. Andreev, I would be in conflict of interest if my name had not been published, and since it has been published and everyone knows that I am, I have nothing to hide. Yes, an officer of the Bulgarian military intelligence and I have interests in the field, but I have no conflict. That should be clear to you. Because you really will come to the situation sometime when you have already prepared footage you will look for them with fire to finish your work, but you will not find them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u114	To speak, the public representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u115	My fellow Members, I would like to call on you to support this text in the way the Commission has proposed to us. He's the product of a lot of work, a lot of expert analysis at the Internal Affairs Commission, so I think the editing is correct. I will remind you just a month ago what we adopted in the Law on the Judiciary, namely that there the magistrates will declare these accessories to secret organizations, informal organizations and societies. I wonder if that's actually what's bothering them on the left, because that's going to have to be said here, too, and it's going to be clear if the faces have addictions. This is the main thing to know if a person has certain dependencies, whether he is a former member of the former State Security, or as a current member of a secret organisation. This is what we need to worry about in terms of our national security, and that is also the meaning of the text in the way it is proposed. So I suggest we back him up and really move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u116	Thank you, Mr. Slavov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 9 against 70, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which, after the Commission's support and editing, becomes § 17 in its report............................................................................................ Vote 100 MPs: 91 against 8, abstention 1. Paragraph 17 of the Commission report has been adopted. You have the floor, honored Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u117	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u118	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the division of the Law, supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. "Transitional and final provisions" as the name of the division of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u119	Paragraph 10. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 10. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. (1) Within one year of the entry into force of this Law, the study body, with the exception of the State Agency of Intelligence and the Service of Military Information, shall make a written request under art. 27 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army for employees with access to classified information for which verification of belonging has not been carried out. The Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army within three days of the completion of the inspection shall notify the result of the examination body and, in case of established involvement, the person concerned. (2) In the absence of written consent under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the operation of the permission to access classified information of the person under para. 1 shall be terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u120	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 11 against 70, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text supported by the Commission in principle by the importer for § 10 which, after editing by the latter, shall become § 18. They voted 99 MPs: 93 against 6, no abstentions. Paragraph 18 shall be adopted on the Commission's report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u121	Paragraph 11. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Metodi Andreev and Petar Slavov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the case of a person established under the previous paragraph of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, an assessment of reliability shall be made for the purposes of art. 40, para. 1, t. 6 and 8 in the row of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u122	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 16 against 71, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote § 11 by importer, which is generally supported by the Commission and edited by the same, and becomes § 19 in its report. Please vote § 19 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 7, no abstentions. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been adopted. Paragraph 12 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u123	Paragraph 12. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop paragraph 12. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u124	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 12 by importer. They voted 93 MPs: for 92, against 1, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to dismiss § 12 by importer has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u125	Paragraph 13. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly - paragraph 13 to be dismissed. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u126	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for § 13 by importer. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The Commission's proposal to dismiss § 13 by importer is unanimously accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u127	Paragraph 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for paragraphs 14 and 15 which are fully supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 20 and 21 in its report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Paragraphs 20 and 21 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u129	The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law for access and disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army (prom., SG No. 102 of 2006 ...) in art. 27 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 5. It's five o'clock. a research body with regard to a person for whom a reliability study is carried out under the Classified Information Protection Act. 2. In para. 3 after the word "days" a comma shall be placed and added to the cases under art. 45a of the Classified Information Protection Act
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u130	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 22 with the corresponding content on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 90 against 3, abstention 2. The proposal is accepted, and with this, at second reading and the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to thank all the members of the Internal Order and Security Commission because, indeed, the Bill, when it was looked at, was extremely nervous. I would like to thank the experts from all the institutions who have been actively involved and we have achieved this consensus so that there is really no debate in plenary today, but to adopt texts that have been reached as a consensus in the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Moving on to point four: THE FIRST VOICE OF BULGARIAN CIVIL TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY (importer: GREATER ENCHEV), ECONOMIC PRODUCER FOR THE DELIVERATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE ACCESS AND DISCLOSURE OF THE DOCUMENTS AND STATEMENT OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN BENEFICIARY FOR STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATIVE SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN ARMY (INDICATORS: PETER SLEV AND MARTIN DIMITROV), AND ARCHIVE ARCHIVES OF THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND THE ARCHIVES OF THE ARCHIVES OF THE STATE SECURITY AND OF THE BULGARIAN ARGIANS (INDENTS: PETER SELAVOV AND MARTIN DIMITROECTION) [[Instructors: ATANAS MERJANOV AND PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE GROUP]] . Reports have been submitted to the committees to which the bills have been allocated. First we will hear the reports of the leading Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Mr. Rumen Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Bill on the Archive of State Security Documents and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016. At a regular meeting held on 15 June 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft for the Archive of State Security Documents and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016. The bill was presented by the MP Atanas Merdjanov. The Law proposes the annulment of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to state security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. However, this does not mean closing the issue of former secret service files. The main focus of the Bill is the settlement of the activities related to the preservation of the thousands of cases and documents containing valuable information and the historical reflection and understanding of the social policy order in force in that period. With discussions, a bill is proposed to set up a National Memory Institute, acting on the principle of impartiality and political neutrality at the Commission's place. The activities of the Institute shall consist of access to documents and persons for whom data have been collected, as well as verification of belonging at the request of persons specifically mentioned in the Law and access to the archives for research, publicist and research activity. The bill makes it clear that the past must be read objectively, without speculation and without prejudice to the interests of the country and our national security. The Institute is scheduled to be headed by a President elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Council of Ministers for a term of five years. The participants took part in the discussion were the folk representatives Krasimir Yankov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Atanas Atanasov, Svetoslav Belemezov, Rosen Petrov. It was noted in the speeches that the current Commission will inevitably transform, but the moment must be carefully assessed, because society is not yet ready to face such a change, and people who have been in the presence of the former secret services, subject to the Act in force, are still at an active age. People's representative Krasimir Yankov pointed out that the bill is also consistent with the practice in some European countries. President Tsvetan Tsvetanov stressed that the Commission has actually started working with all archive materials since 2010 when more than 1 million archive units have been presented and transmitted by the Ministry of Interior and staged by all institutions having a direct bearing on the topic After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 4 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour and 1 vote in abstention, suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a draft for the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u134	Under the bill with importers Mr. Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov, Internal Commission, Mr. Ivanov. Three reports from the Internal Affairs Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on access and disclosure of documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554-01-169, submitted by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 4 November 2015. At its meeting held on 20 January 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554-01-169, submitted by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 4 November 2015. The meeting was attended by the President of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and Announcement of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army Evtim Kostadinov. People's representative Petar Slavov presented the proposed Bill, pointing out that it attempts to improve the existing legislative framework for verification of belonging to the structures of the former State Security and to extend the categories of persons examined applying for public office. The proposed changes will include the requirement for checks of district mayors, deputy mayors, public administration presidents and jury. The President of the Commission Evtim Kostadinov supported the proposed changes, arguing that the practice proposes extending the scope of the Law and noted that the Commission's capabilities with available personnel potential and financial resources without changing the philosophy of the existing law can meet these new requirements. People's representative Velizar Enchev joined the opinion of Atanas Merdjanov and pointed out that the extension of the scope of the persons examined is a political issue, doubting the obvious coordinated action between the ideology of these amendments by the National Representative Metodi Andreev and the President of the Commission Evtim Kostadinov. Velizar Enchev opened in the proposals of Metodi Andreyev, Martin Dimitrov and Petar Slavov, supported by Evtim Kostadinov, a single goal, namely to check the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, to control the judicial system of the right majority in the National Assembly and to replace the uncomfortable with faithful party staff, thus silenced the voice of civil society in the court. People's representative Krasimir Jankov stressed that the introduction of the bill right now aims to distract attention from the important issues and deliberately makes no sense to the Commission's closure bill prepared by his parliamentary group. People's representative Krasimir Karakachanov expressed his opinion on a draft debate by protecting the work of the Commission and its President Evtim Kostadinov, but stressed that this is not the problem of statehood and the protection of the dignity of Bulgarian citizens. People's representative Atanas Atanasov noted that the extension of the scope of the inspected structures and persons is acceptable, in line with the European rules, but should be for all state structures, without exception. Atanasov assessed the Commission's work and stressed the need for more transparency in public. People's representative Petar Slavov answered the questions asked, pointing out that the extension of the law followed the philosophy laid down in its creation without burdening the budget with additional costs and within the existing budget. The National Representative and President of the Commission Tsvetan Tsvetanov reminded that these extremely important issues for society have been delayed or passed with ease over the years, but the delay in problems does not solve them, but usually deepens them. Mr. Tsvetanov stressed that falling into political controversy is not healthy for our society as a whole and the support of the proposed bill is important for all political parties represented in Parliament. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, without the votes of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554-01-169, submitted by Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov on 4 November 2015 and proposed to the National Assembly to accept it in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u136	And the report on Mr. Merdjanov's bill and group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u137	♪ I can't believe On a Bill on the closing of the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554-01-79, submitted on 17 April 2015 by the National Representative Velizar Enchev At a regular meeting held on 16 June 2015, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a Bill on the closure of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 554-01-79, submitted by the National Representative Velizar Enchev on 17 April 2015. The meeting was attended by Evtim Kostadinov, President of the Commission. The bill was presented by the importer Velizar Enchev, who pointed out that the main reasons for submitting the bill are related to the existence of reasonable doubts about the objectivity of the Commission, which is composed of a party-quota principle. A large part of the stored archive is classified and its disclosure will harm the interests of the Republic of Bulgaria. He underlined that unprofessionally the names of foreign citizens are deleted.. collaborators of our intelligence, the ciphers that are stored can also be deciphered by the counterintelligence services and reveal the identity of our collaborators. In its presentation it noted that the established liberal regime for access to the declassified documents and the financial costs spent on the activity exceeding 30 million is unacceptable. leva. Evtim Kostadinov, President of the Commission, expressed his opinion that the bill was adopted by the National Assembly with the support of our partners and was implemented strictly. One of the main goals is to stop illegal racketeering and access to information about the activities of public figures in the Republic of Bulgaria. The law, unlike the regulations in other post-totalitarian countries, is not lustrational. In case the draft Law of the National Representative Velizar Enchev is adopted and the Commission is closed, this means that the objectives that are in the public interest will not be achieved. In the debates of the MPs Atanas Merdjanov and Krasimir Yankov supported the submitted bill with the argument that it is an instrument for self-mutilation and undermines the interests of national security. National Representative Krasimir Karakachanov, after announcing a conflict of interest, stressed that this is a law of the BSP and the debate on the submitted Bill by Velizar Enchev is not unnecessary, but it is useful to complete the topic. People's representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Mustafa Karadayi and Atanas Atanasov said they would not support the submitted bill and do not accept what was put into the motives of the importer, who is also in conflict of interest. Society should be aware of the models of repression applied and know the truth about public figures. People's representative Atanas Atanasov also reminded of the political manipulation in 1989 with the criminal destruction of important files of state security collaborators, who were then introduced into the emerging new and opposition parties and the huge harmful consequences for the process of democratic processes in the Republic of Bulgaria. Members of the National Assembly who expressed their opinion that this Bill should not be adopted indicated that the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army should reveal the whole truth, fulfil its objectives, and that it does not affect national security in any way. After the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 4 votes...... 9 votes against............................................................................................. and 1 vote.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u138	We will now hear the report of the Defence Committee on the bill of Mr. Merdjanov and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u139	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016. In an open-air meeting held on 11 February 2016, the Defence Committee discussed a Draft for the Archive of State Security Documents and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdzhanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016. The meeting was attended by 14 MPs from the Defence Committee and the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev and Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova. The sitting is led by the Vice-President of the Defence Committee, Mr. Valentin Radev. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Angel Naydenov. In the presentation of the reasons, he stressed that the Bill proposes a qualitative change in the current legal and administrative framework of the file problem. The proposed draft law repealed the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army and closed the one-name Commission established under this Law. It is proposed in its place to establish under the new law an archive agency called the Institute for National Memory, acting on the principles of neutrality and impartiality, offering also the main directions of its activity. The changes will lead to the removal of the mandatory element of the checks and will reduce the amount of work of the Institute, and will only be carried out for certain electoral and essential positions, which will also reduce the costs of public funds. The official opinion of the Ministry of Defence on the draft law was presented by the Deputy Minister of Defence Dimitar Kyumurdzhiev In the discussion of the draft took part the MPs Krasimir Karakachanov, Petar Slavov, Angel Naydenov, Vladimir Toshev, Hristo Gadzhev, Atanas Zafirov, Yanko Yankov, Kancho Filipov, Korman Ismailov, Plamen Manushev, Valentin Radev, Dimitar Dimitrov and Velizar Enchev. Some Members of the National Assembly repeatedly took the floor with lines, duplicates, and repeated statements. A part of the MPs supported the draft law as imperative and spoke of amending the current Law in order to protect the rights of employees who have faithfully served and defended the interests of the state and especially of secret collaborators, without which no intelligence community could exist. Importers propose a new formulation and a new approach to the problem of dossiers, and not without reason due to the constantly expanding list of these public posts and public activities which lead to the continuation of the activities of the existing Commission and the spending of public funds of unknown duration. Another substantial part of the MPs united around the fact that importers do not state in their motives facts of breach of the principles of neutrality and impartiality by the existing Commission on Files, even though its composition has been changed repeatedly. They rely on the public opinion, according to them, of selective and purposeful announcement of data by the administrative authority entrusted with the management of the archive and the carrying out of the membership checks. They do not apply in the reasons and specific facts which require the replacement of the old Law on Files with a new one or the replacement of the Commission on Files with the Institute for National Memory. Nor shall criteria apply to assess the proposed neutrality and impartiality principles. It is also not justified as a positive replacement of the collective method of decision-making by the Commission on files with the sole decision-making on access to documents and the declaration of belonging by the head of the proposed National Memory Institute, which may lead to new and unpredictable consequences. The problem, according to some of the MPs, is not in the administrative authority implementing the Law, in this case the Commission on Files or the Institute for National Memory, as proposed in the Bill. The problem lies in the provisions of the Law which define the Commission's activities and in the Commission's management and in the objectives it pursues. The provisions of the Law on Files and the Commission Presidency are defined by the Legislative and only it can change those clauses which will impose the rules on which the Commission or the Institute for National Memory will work. Although imperfect in some respects, the existing File Act has played its role and it is not appropriate to replace it with another imperfect law. In their reasoning, the importers do not state or give an opinion on the expected consequences of the application of the Law, including financial, which is recommended under art. 3, para. Two of the subs. And such are possible when replacing the currently existing Commission on Files with the Institute for National Memory. Regardless of the positives and weaknesses of the Bill, it raises the question of changing the legal basis on the problem of files as one of the many reasons affecting the unity of the nation and the sustainability of the state. After hearing the reasons, a vote took place in which 14 MPs participated. The Defence Committee adopted the following opinion by 5 votes.................... 7 votes against........................................................................................................ and 2 He proposed to the National Assembly not to adopt at first vote a Bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 654-01-9, submitted by Atanas Todorov Merdjanov and a group of MPs on 28 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u140	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. We move on to the presentation of the bills by their importers. First at the time is Mr. Velizar Enchev's Bill. You have the floor, Mr. Enchev, to present us with the motives of your bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u141	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, we are looking at bills concerning a Law adopted nine years ago, a vicious Law which marked equality between the officers who served under the Balkan and Arab direction of the Foreign and Military Intelligence of the People's Republic of Bulgaria and the informants of the Bulgarian political police. I am aware, as I want to be objective, that the main responsibility for this repressive and anti-national law, which undermines statehood, is not at the current ruling majority, but at the now opposition Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is entirely an ideologist and realistor of this Law, as the chairman of the Commission on Files is the former recently member of the Supreme Party Council of BSP Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, but one of the main factors in this Commission at the moment, the head of the investigating department, Mrs. Tanya Kirjakova is a prominent journalist from the newspaper. I am making this very important clarification to stress what is the moral and legal responsibility for the major breaches in the country's national security. The responsibility lies with the then ruling coalition in 2007 and, first of all, the Bulgarian Socialist Party. My fellow Members, the Committee on Files, as has already been said, has been drawn up on a party-quota principle, and this calls into question entirely the objectivity of its work. It is also an important consideration for the closure of this Commission that many of the documents of the former secret services kept by the Commission continue to be secret and their disclosure will damage and already damage Bulgaria's interests and authority internationally. And to be convincing, I will tell you that in revealed ciphers of the Balkan and Arab residents of our foreign intelligence until 1991. The fact with which I also introduced the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office, documents to which every reader can have access in the Commission's reading room, in these ciphers has not deleted the exact time of their dispatch time, a minute and a second, from the residence of the respective embassy, which I allow, once the text of the cipher is already known, and once the exact moment of dispatch is known up to the second, and after naturally the respective counterintelligence services of the respective country have recorded this cipher, and the records are kept forever, the content can be read immediately, deciphered by the local intelligence services. And most importantly, the most frightening to see the identity of our collaborators in the Balkans and in the Middle East, which has irreparable consequences for their families. Also, the unprofessional deletion of the names of foreign citizens, who are collaborators of our intelligence, which I showed you, I think, from this tribune exactly one year ago, deleted with a white flumaster, in which the name of the agent, of the secret associate or of our friend, of the People's Republic of Bulgaria is read. In the past nine years, as has already been said by the Commission's work, it has spent over 30 million. BGN, and this amount does not include real tangible assets. I propose something quite pragmatic: let the Commission remain working, let it continue to reveal the names of people, if you think this is so necessary, honourable colleagues of BSP, who have not yet covered your head with ash for this anti-national and anti-state act, but are talking about protecting national interests and the work of the secret services. I propose that the Commission's work be fully transferred to the three departments: the National Intelligence Service, the Military Information Service and the SANS, and that within the budgets of these three institutions, they are not entirely small except, of course, the budget of the National Intelligence Service, which is really, however unpleasant for me to say it, is miserable. That is, the state will in no way suffer financially from such a reform with the draft law that I propose. A year ago, I proposed this economy from the closure of the Commission to be redirected to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but this proposal is subject to debate. I also believe that the proposal of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to establish the Institute for National Memory is essentially a continuation of the work of this Commission, which works, honourable Members, let me say it directly, is marked by corruption. I will be perfectly specific: the compromise of the former MP in this National Assembly Asen Agov two years ago by a prominent Bulgarian moustache political scientist became with the assistance of the President of the Commission, who provided documents to him suddenly, to this prominent Bulgarian political scientist, about the compromise of Asen Agov, because at that time Mr. Asen Agov was a critic of some forces of....................................................................where you have been there and not only there, but in many other parties, disagreements between the coalition partners of the coalition partners in the then reforming in the reforming. This fact, firmly behind my words from the parliamentary tribune, the highest tribune in this country, only this fact is enough to take the head of the President of the Commission in the literal sense of the word, that is, this Commission and its President, I repeat for which way, from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, from this person BSP has not yet distinguished itself, bears criminal responsibility for this action. Having already set out the facts with the deletion of the names, which are read through the so-called "Plmaster" by setting out already the fact that it is not deleted and at the moment, I have checked, the date, the time, the minute and the second of sending the cipher before 15 20-35 from the respective residency in the Middle East and the Balkans, it is a criminal act, however, which is based on a legislative decision of the Bulgarian Parliament for the creation of this Commission. Therefore, I ask you, I suggest that you approve my proposal, however absurd that this idea may sound to you, but you will sooner or later take this move, because at the moment and tomorrow we will have a hearing at a closed session of the heads of the three intelligence institutions -- DANS, NRS and Military information -- and at the moment they will confirm at this closed session, let me say in advance something that they will say to you, albeit under a surdinka, there is a mass refusal of Bulgarian agents in the Middle East precisely because of this repressive law, anti-democratic and anti-human law on the files, which is the glory of equality between the officers of the Balkan, Arab intelligence of Bulgaria, the foreign, civilian and military, and the informants of the political police. This mistake, this omission, this crime must be corrected, if not by this law that I propose, with a new law and with new legislative proposals. Finally, I will conclude to be even more convincing proof of the politicisation of the Commission's chiefs. Mrs. Ekaterina Boncheva? nomination of the right-wing forces, Mr. Evtim Kostadinov I have already said whose nomination is, in recent years they are living as TV commentators, not as presidents, leaders and members of an independent state commission elected by the Bulgarian Parliament. Moreover, their comments, analyses and assessments are completely biased and ideologically colored. By law, with a special text, this must be prohibited to the members of this Commission. Therefore, I think it is my best proposal: the archive, the entire information array of the Commission on Files, to move on to the three services which, within their budgets, have created a special public and civil council, which can really be elected by Parliament, such a commission to do its job, although the damage to national security has already been done and they are so serious that I would call them irreparable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u142	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. We move on to the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and declaring the belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The representatives of the People's Representatives Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. Which one of the importers? Mr. Andreev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u143	Honourable Members, the proposal that we have made to amend and supplement the said Law is related to the new requirements that appeared in respect of some positions that did not exist at the time when the Law was written. By the way, this is one of the fine laws that were passed at the time when the Bulgarian Socialist Party was ruling, for which I congratulate them and do not think that they should so quickly and easily give up this good thing that they created at a time when they were ruling and when they supported this Bill. We continue to perfect the Bill and expand its action, and we believe that this is in support of democratic processes. For example, we now want to examine these proposals that we have made under the Law in question, say, the investigating customs inspectors, the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council, the President, the Vice-President and the Members, the Secretary-General, the Directors of Directorates of the Commission for Protection of Competition, the Communications Regulation Commission, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and so on, not to list them. These committees, in the way they are now structured, in the way they exist, did not exist in this form and in this type of positions when the Law is written, and this, as you yourselves understand, is extremely important for the state committees. There should also be control over the presence and experience of people associated with the former services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria to enter these committees. At the very least, we need to know who they are. The law, as highlighted by the people who submitted the Bill by the committees, has no lustrational character. It has only one purpose: to inform those who will choose the specific persons, in fact what their past is and whether they were part of this repressive machine of the communist state. There is also a very important issue that we solve in the Law. This relates to the so-called preliminaries. In this Parliament, the centre-right majority, especially with the help of the parliamentary group of GERB, imposed a very useful practice for the democratic foundations of the state to be carried out prior checks before the persons were appointed to the specific positions. Those ex ante controls shall be, the results of which shall be summarised, to the relevant authority which shall elect the specific officials. And I believe that this most valuable quality the Law has not yet possessed. There was a purely bureaucratic approach to this moment by the Law, a consent was required by the person that he might have had a prior inspection. Now this agreement is abolished in the Law, and logic is simple. Since I want to become, for example, a member of the Water Regulatory Commission and I know that the requirement is to be checked under the Law on Access to the Documents of the former State Security, I have accepted to be checked and I do not need to write an explicit consent and agree that I can be checked, so the Law is just a continuation of the well-acting Law. We also take into account the fact that, even now, in the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, we have given another great responsibility to the Commission to distribute where they are located in the national security system of collaborators, officers, former secret and all kinds of intelligence and security agents of the Communist State, at least to know what people we are dealing with and to know by the people who make the decisions in this country, which people give them the information, to always have a good awareness. Again, any speculation that the Law has been repressed is not true. The law is not repressive. It is, above all, informative and complements some gaps that so far existed, so I call on the centre-right majority to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u144	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. We move on to the next submitted Bill on the archive of the documents of State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Importers are the national representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. Mr. Angel Naydenov on behalf of the importers, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the bill we have tabled is entirely new. I would like to stress that it is clear enough, short enough, but a Bill which really proposes a basic new legislative framework of the issue of disclosure of belonging, respectively access to documents of the former State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian Army, a bill which repeals the current Law. The current Law, in our view, has been adopted with the main intention to liquidate addictions, to cross extortion, to put an end to the secret use of long exported archive documents, respectively, a Law which has become, unfortunately, with great regret in the means of defrauding, of condemning, of a tool for clearing accounts and, last but not least, a foundation for creating a cozy asylum for a group of people with tempting rewards. I would like to emphasise that the current Law on which we propose annulment was a compromise. And I say it in response to the previous accusations against the Bulgarian Socialist Party and respectively to the management of the three coalition in the 40th National Assembly. There can be no responsibility or at least there can be no full responsibility of a parliamentary group in the face of the BSP Parliamentary Group with a number of about one third of the then National Assembly, and in principle from the composition of any National Assembly. In fact, if this compromise, which was adopted after a created dynamic majority of others, including those involved in the then ruling triple coalition parties and parliamentary groups, I am not sure or rather certain that Mr. Velizar Enchev would not be able to speak from this tribune, because in the texts in the bills that were then prepared and voted for adoption in this Law, there were clearly lustration texts prohibiting any person established as belonging to the State Security whether as a positional or something associate or as an employee or respectively as a secret collaborator, to take over public positions, so that, please respect the political realities at that time, when you make your criticism of the parliamentary group, which tried to bring closer positions and find a compromise that, on one side, to cross the dependencies, and on the other side, not to allow the frank lustrational texts that were prepared. But going back to our bill, let me point out that the main objective, apart from all the others, that are written in the texts, is the closure of the Commission. I have no hesitation to say the Commission, which, with its activities, raised doubts about the objectivity of the information it provides and, accordingly, raised doubts and suspicions of selectivity. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The fact that we propose the closure of the Commission does not mean that somewhere this archive, which it has, or which is the subject of research and publications, is of interest to various organisations and entities, disappears. It is preserved, including its peculiarity as an archive, but not in the State Agency "Archives" but in the Institute for National Memory, which is the next purpose of the draft proposed by us and which is created as a legal entity of budgetary maintenance governing the main activities, let me say, related to the access to documents of the former State Security and the services of the Bulgarian Army respectively. I would like to stress that the checks are maintained, but no longer in the order of the so-called public posts and activities, which are basically regulating the procedure in the current Law, but creating a new order. By the way, another reason for proposing a bill which provides for the closure of the Commission and, in principle, the current activity, is precisely this continuous extension of the scope of the current Law, including with regard to persons subject to checks, and by the way, the People's Representative Metodi Andreyev well illustrates this continuous extension of the scope, including creating the grounds for the existence of the previous Commission. This new order, which we have set out in the Bill, provides for a clear definition of the entities that may request verification, rather than a verification of the objects of the respective Bill and these are political organisations and coalitions, respectively legislative, executive, judicial authorities, with regard to their members or people who are to be appointed publicly, respectively, trade union organisations, non-governmental organisations and so on. Pay attention! The obligation to verify is removed, but a written consent of the person examined is required, which is the special difference in the order and procedures so far. Next, I would like to stress that we find a good framework for the problem of the so-called cards. In fact, it is noted in the corresponding reply to be provided by the Institute for National Memory to the applicant of the verification, but is not considered as proof of belonging, respectively the person for whom such a card is established has the right to know all the data and documents that are part of the archive that the Institute of National Memory is dealing with. It is clearly written down which are and respectively the documents for the establishment of ownership and these are personnel cases, statutory schedules, remuneration payrolls, agency information, again payment documents respectively. I have already highlighted that the main objective, besides the closure of the current Commission, is the establishment of the Institute for National Memory as a place where they are collected, stored and handled accordingly the relevant documentation of the former intelligence services. The procedure for the establishment of affiliation at the written request of the applicants concerned is determined accordingly. But once again, I would like to draw attention to the consent of the person for whom the application for registration is made. It is important what I want to pay attention to when Bulgaria's interests in international relations would be harmed or there would be a corresponding threat and danger to the lives of those seeking identification of such belonging that a refusal to provide information is envisaged. But I pay attention to the documents for this circle of persons remain in a separate archive as part of the common archive available to the Institute for National Memory. I would like to make it clear that everyone has the right to the following, I say, each of the Bulgarian citizens has the right, firstly, to access those collected for him and for members of his family by direct line of data and information in this archive of State Security and the intelligence services of the Army. Secondly, he has the right to request a registration check. Thirdly, there is respectively the right of access to research, publicist and publishing activities based on the data stored in the archive. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Please extend the speaking time, I'm finishing.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u146	At the expense of speaking, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u147	The right of access to the documents of the persons for whom that affiliation is established is also guaranteed. That is, not only for those for whom there is a card shown, but also for those for whom membership is generally established and they want to know all the documents that are stored in this archive. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that it is sufficiently clear that the appeal procedure has been signed and that it is in court before the Supreme Administrative Court of the refusal of the Institute for National Memory to provide access to the archive documents accordingly. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the time limits for carrying out the checks concerned and for sending a reply to the applicants are clearly indicated. I sincerely hope that after a careful introduction to both the reasons presented and the contents of the bill, we can rely on the support of the majority of the MPs, because there is no more sensitive topic concerning security issues on the subject relating to the documents and the handling of documents from the archives of the former State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian Army respectively. This is a figurative part of that Holy Sanctuary for every country that has the proper care for its security, both for its interests in domestic politics and foreign policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-08-31.u148	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. With this, we actually entered the last minute debate mode of Mr. Naydenov's speech. The time scheduled for plenary has expired under our Rules of Procedure. A regular plenary session tomorrow. We begin at 9:00 with a closed session. The discussion of the three reports and the draft decisions on the next three points of our Programme. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
