ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There is a quorum, I am opening the plenary session. Dear Members of Parliament, today is the first Wednesday of June, which is why the Program for the Work of the National Assembly for today is formed according to the rules of art. 50, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. With a view to the rotation of the parliamentary groups first this month are the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. They have proposed, respectively this becomes a t. 1 "Project for a decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. The representatives are Mikhail Mikov and a group of MPs, a continuation of a previous plenary session. The draft decision has been reported by the importer, a debate is pending. Proposal from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is what happens. 2 - First vote on the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary. Importers are Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs, from 27 October 2014. There are no proposals from the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. The Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front proposes, that is. 3 - First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code. Importers are Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. No proposals were received from the other parliamentary groups. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers, adopted in the first vote on 19 May 2016. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television, provided for as follows: 1 for Thursday. Importers are Polina Karastoyanova, Irena Sokolova, Petar Kadiev, Borislav Milanov, Rosen Petrov, Mariana Boyadjieva, Stanislav Stanilov and Erjan Ebatin. 6. Projects for decisions for adoption of Project Investment Cost "Actributing a new type of combat aircraft" and adopting Project for investment expenditure "Acquiring a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Navy." Importer is the Council of Ministers. 7. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. The representatives are Manol Genov and a group of MPs. The first draft of 13 April 2016, and the Council of Ministers of 9 May 2016. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Waste Management Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer is the Council of Ministers. This is intended to be t. 1 for Friday 3 June 2016 10. Projects for decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importers are Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs; Krasimir Velchev. There will be also from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. This is going to be t. 2 for Friday 3 June 2016 11. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on ratification of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security (Minimum Standards), the Convention is from 1952. 12. Project for a decision for a proposal to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for an award with the Order of St. St. Cyril and Methodius, first degree. Importers are Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs from the Committee on Health. 13. Parliamentary control in the order of art. 104 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, scheduled for today, Wednesday, starting time 12.00. The usual parliamentary control of art. The National Assembly's Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure are on Friday, starting at 11.00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 150 MPs: 120 against 8, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. In the order of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules have received two proposals. The first proposal at the time is by the MP Vasil Antonov from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. He proposes that as a point in our weekly programme the First Voting of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act No 654-01-32 should be included, as of 14 March 2016. Vasil Antonov and a group of MPs were introduced. Mr. Antonov, you have the floor to defend your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Our proposal of the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria is for inclusion on the agenda for the week of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act. In this form, the Religions Act was adopted in 2002 and entered into force in 2003 with minor amendments in the coming years. So far, more than 147 religions have been registered under the Law, which in itself speaks of the implementation and rights of religion of Bulgarian citizens. The dynamics of the processes that have been developing in Europe and in Bulgaria in recent years, and especially the flows of immigrants over the past two years have led to Europe more than three million immigrants. At the same time, this is happening at the external border of Bulgaria in our southern neighbours in Turkey, where they are currently waiting for their fate more than 2.5 million immigrants, waiting for their way to Europe. Let us remind ourselves that only since the beginning of this year, the number of migrants who entered Europe is more than 200-220 thousand. The situation is also bad in neighbouring Greece, where the number of immigrants is hundreds of thousands. They await a solution to their questions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Taking into account the fact that the right to religion cannot be restricted, we propose appropriate amendments to the Religions Act with which we make the Law more applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u3	Today you are proposing a procedure to include this Bill on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u4	At the same time, with this Law we strengthen the implementation of the Law and the Constitution of the country in art. Art. 37 and Art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u5	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. You had forty seconds on top of it. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal made to include this bill in our weekly programme. They voted 137 MPs: 55 against 36, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I assure you that the Law, the proposal we are making with our fellow Members, is only in defence of national interests. I ask you to confirm by voting for the introduction of the Bill on the agenda, and in subsequent consideration of the first and second votes, we will be able to consider the points at issue, as well as to adopt other proposals, if any, under the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u7	It's a re-vote. They voted 145 MPs: 55 against 44, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Mr. Velizar Enchev, who proposes to include in the weekly program a draft declaration on the occasion of the 13th anniversary of the involvement of the Republic of Bulgaria in the war against Iraq with motives for it. The draft declaration was submitted by Mr. Enchev on 25 March 2016 with a signature 554-03-1. Mr. Enchev, you have the opportunity to defend your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! On May 29th of this year, only two days ago, the 39th National Assembly decided to send a Bulgarian military contingent to Iraq. As this decision turned out to be a serious political mistake, which, against the backdrop of the terrorist acts in Brussels and in Paris, was seen even more, a revaluation and corresponding reaction of the Bulgarian National Assembly from its current composition is required. Moreover, in Britain and the United States, and in practice in all countries of the so-called Coalition of wishing former and present statesmen separated from the war in Iraq and assessed it as a serious political and military error, I believe that we should submit to political and moral assessment the actions of the legislative and executive authorities in 2003. I will read to you the basics of the Declaration which I suggest you accept: On 29 May 2003, the decision of the Thirty-nineth National Assembly for sending a Bulgarian military contingent to Iraq was based on false information submitted by the government of the National Movement. This act of legislative and executive power is a serious political mistake that has broken international law and dragged our country into an unjust war. The intervention against Iraq sparked the religious fanaticism and unlocked destructive processes in the Middle East, which severely affected Syria, Libya, Yemen, where a bloody civil war is currently under way, and today's existing "Islamic State" that took over Syria and Iraq's territory is the worst relapse since military intervention in Iraq in 2003. I propose that the 43rd National Assembly declare that in its foreign policy actions it will strictly respect the principles of international law, not allow the executive to act in violation of the sovereignty of the independent states and will strongly oppose international terrorism. I believe the MPs from GERB have the greatest reason to support this Declaration, as they were the only ones not present in the 39th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u9	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Enchev's proposal to include the draft declaration in our weekly programme. 140 MPs voted: 31, against 46, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. Revoting Mr. Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u10	Madam President, I ask for a revoting because either the MPs did not understand, or I did not express myself very well, but to remind you that this declaration or similar text has already been voted and, more precisely, the former US Head of State George Bush, the former Secretary of State of the United States of America, Colin Powell, former military minister Donald Rumsfeld, spoke. It seems to me that the arguments are more than serious to support this declaration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u11	Revoting, coworkers. They voted 132 MPs: for 31, against 48, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. Bills and draft decisions for the period from 21 to 31 May 2016: Draft decision to open a procedure for the election of the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission. Importers.. Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. A draft declaration of the Forty-third National Assembly on the occasion of the Thirtyth Anniversary of the acquittal of Sergey Antonov's judgment was falsely accused of the assassination of Pope John Paul II. Importer "Велизар Еnchev." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importer "Svetan Tsvetanov" and group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Draft declaration establishing a Regional Energy Union in Central and South East Europe. Importer "Krasimir Karakachanov" and group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers s Marianna Todorova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Bill amending and supplementing the Water Act. Importers sanislav Ivanov, Ivan Valkov, Vili Lilkov and Hristo Grudev. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Summary annual report on the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council and the activities of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for 2014. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2015. Importer "The Commission for Protection of Competition." It will be viewed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. Importer on 27 May 2016. The Council of Ministers distributed it to the following committees: the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Commission on Environment and Water, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on Defence and the Commission on Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. Report on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts in 2014. Importer "The Supreme Judicial Council." It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement establishing a Regional Trust Fund of the European Union in response to the Syrian crisis, Fond Madad................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Foreign Policy will also be seen by the accompanying Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Annual Activity Report of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2015, Annual Financial Statement of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2015, Report of the implementation of the Financial Supervision Commission's budget for 2015 and Audit Report No 04-00-104416 of the Court of Auditors and Opinion on the certification of the Annual Financial Statement 2015 of the CFO, an integral part of it. Importer "The Financial Supervision Commission." It will be discussed by the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. A bill amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act. The importers Svetlin Tanchev and Georgi Kovachev. The Committee on Energy is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Labour Code. Importers suppose Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It will also be watched by the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Draft amending and supplementing the Election Code. Importers... Radan Kanev and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Election Code. Importer Georgi Kadiev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. Report of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means for the activity carried out in 2015. Importer "The National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means." There's a distribution coming up. A draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Energy, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Importer "Krasimir Velchev." Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act; Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission; Draft Decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Importers: Krasimira Kovatchka and a group of MPs. Report of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications on the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications in 2015. Importer Project for a decision on changes in the composition and management of the Committee on Politics for Bulgarians Abroad, Project for a decision on a change in the composition of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, Project for a decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Importers - Krasimira Kovachka and a group of MPs. On 31 May this year, a summary of the information under Article was received by the President of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data in the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 2 (1) of the Law on Electronic Communications, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the By my letter, the information was provided to the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, the Internal Security and Public Order Commission and the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission. The information is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Last communication: the National Statistical Institute received information about the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in May 2016, a general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at domestic and international market prices for April 2016. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We are moving on to the adopted agenda for today's plenary session first item: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, repair and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and maintenance of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of Importers "Mihail Mikov and a group of MPs. There is no report from the Commission on European Affairs and the control of European funds. The draft decision was included on the agenda. The reports are presented. The draft decision is submitted on behalf of the importers. The opening of the debate on this draft decision is forthcoming. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u12	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria several times submitted this draft decision. Last time we even managed to evolve to get on the agenda and even to hear what the importer said, but, using some parliamentary primos, we did not get to discuss and vote. We then promised you that we would put this item back on the agenda and, as you can see, we are doing it quite consistently. You still have the opportunity today to use some parliamentary primos in which you do not express your opinion was not present in the House during the vote, either refraining from voting or not participating in the vote, but given that the process of normalising interparliamentary relations between the European Union and the Russian Federation is something that is lawful, something that is already happening, something that has passed through the parliaments of other European countries, I will try to motivate you to still participate in this vote and express your opinion to show whether parliamentaryism has any basis in Bulgaria, whether parliamentaryism is something that we are taking the lead of government not only in our country, but also as a fundamental principle in the European Union. These restrictions that are imposed are not imposed by anyone else, they are imposed by the executive, they are imposed on a dialogue that cannot be held if you forbid your opponent or your partner or whoever you want to talk to, to be able to meet with you. Because what currently exists as an environment in the world with a growing threat of terrorist waves, with increasing, increasing emigrant pressure, requires dialogue, requires mutual understanding, requires putting the problems that are global, on the table and discussing them mostly at the parliamentary level. And in this regard, any restrictions on the travel of parliamentarians, whether from the Russian Federation to European countries and the already taken reciprocal measures by the Russian Federation of European parliamentarians to Russia, are unconstructive, I would say counterproductive, they only lead to isolation of individual parliaments, cannot contribute to resolving these global issues, they prevent the normalization of the world's environment, because only a global coalition can launch a successful anti-terrorism struggle, only a global coalition involving the widest possible range of democratic states, can solve the problem of refugees where it arises, and not fight their consequences. In this regard, colleagues, I ask you very much, let us follow the example of other European parliaments today, and I will mention only the French, you think of the others, and support the decision by which to make the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs make a reasoned proposal to the European Union and the Foreign Affairs Council to remove all parliamentarians from the EU's sentencing lists and, at the same time, begin negotiations on reciprocal removal and actions by the Russian Federation. Only in this way will we be able to meet the requirements of our peoples for a peaceful, peaceful, normal life - a life without threat of terrorist activities, a life without fear and a look at the border when the next wave of migrants will come. Please be parliamentarians and vote for this decision, which will open the way for dialogue. Once again, I say a dialogue is held by two. You can't have a dialogue if you've forbidden the other side to meet you and talk to you. Thank you. I hope you'll show some sense this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u13	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u14	Madam President, honourable Members, I am making immediately, at the beginning of my speech, an clarification. Before you vote, I would like to remind you that today we are not going to vote on a decision to drop sanctions against the Russian Federation, which scares you so much not to anger your new big brother, but we are voting on just one decision to promote interparliamentary dialogue between the European Union, on the one hand, and the Russian Federation, on the other. That is to say, you can safely press the button "for" because it is the Bulgarian Parliament not to be the last to make the right decisions together with the other parliaments of the European Union, but to be the first, as before 13 years we were the first in the coalition of the so-called wishing countries who have broken international law. Mr. Ermenkov very well gave an announcement about what was happening in the European Union in these last few months, on the eve, I hope, of dropping the sanctions against the Russian Federation. France's Parliament, honourable Members, voted a month and a half ago to drop the sanctions by 55 votes for................................................................................................ It is true that this decision of the French Parliament does not have an imperative function, does not necessarily matter to the executive, but it is indicative of the mood among the French public, as France loses, suffers huge losses mostly from its farmers, from the imposed commercial and economic sanctions against the Russian Federation. Yesterday in Moscow was German Foreign Minister Walter Steinmeier, who said: Moreover, without complying with the moral norms, the Federal Republic of Germany, although insisting that the other countries of the European Union strictly respect sanctions against Russia, continues the negotiations and the work on the Nord Stream. 2 which shows that pragmatism, when it comes to the interests of the big ones, stands above the morals of which Angela Merkel has told us too much. What about Hungary and Italy's position? Hungary has officially stated that it will not support the automatic continuation of sanctions against the Russian Federation. This was stated by the Hungarian Prime Minister and the Hungarian Foreign Minister during his last conversation with Russia's Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Such is the position, even stronger and radical, of Italy, where Prime Minister Renzi is adamant that sanctions against the Russian Federation are more harmful to the European Union and certain countries of the European Union than to the Russian Federation. And should I remind you that only four days ago on an official visit to Greece was the Russian Head of State Vladimir Putin, who concluded a series of profitable and especially for Greece, a member of the European Union, trade and economic agreements. I'm not even talking about the South Stream Project, which has a lot of questions. So only the countries that I have listed for you, Greece, Italy, Cyprus, Hungary, the Federal Republic of Germany and France in the first place, should be sufficient motives to convince you and I, of course, also the importer of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, that today you must vote on a decision to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue between Russia and the European Union, which is entirely and mainly in the interests of the citizens of the European Union and then of the Russian Federation. Perhaps in just an hour and a half we will discuss the issue of refurbishing the army with new fighters and new ships for the Navy. Then, during this debate, it will be about our relationship with the Russian Federation and our Western partners. Therefore, let us not make these mistakes that we made, as I said at the beginning, 13 years ago, we are first involved when it comes to unfair causes, in such vicious coalitions contrary to international law, and we will be the last to join the group of countries that will want to drop the sanctions of the European Union against the Russian Federation. Moreover, which way do I say from this tribune, it is a decision not to drop the sanctions, but to strengthen the interparliamentary dialogue between Russia and the European Union, which will benefit the citizens of the European Union and the citizens of the Russian Federation. I hope your pragmatism and then, of course, your mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u15	Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. Mr. Zablyanov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u16	Dear Madam President, Members of the National Assembly! With my speech in favour of our party's proposal to drop sanctions against Russian parliamentarians, I would like to address the ruling majority and protect it from a systemic error that it has made over several months. This system error is as follows. The Bulgarian public has not supported sanctions against the Russian Federation since their imposition! Not today, not a few months ago the Bulgarian public is against them! The Bulgarian public opposes the sharpening of relations with the Russian Federation! Because of such a policy, the current Head of State has refused to claim a next term and it seems to me that this should be clear to all! The chances of the current head of state being re-elected were reduced to 10% because of his aggressive vocabulary against the Russian Federation! Therefore, on the basis of these arguments, and also on the basis of the arguments put forward by colleagues before me; on the basis of the Declaration adopted at the January session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where they were adopted as leading principles for promoting interparliamentary dialogue between the Russian Federation and the European Union; on the basis of the changed political and geopolitical situation in Europe; on the basis of the stagnation of the economies of the major European countries and the growing social turmoil and conflicts within them, I do not think that we should demonstrate the characteristic of certain moments our involuntary position following foreign interests, which are not even at the moment quite clearly expressed! Therefore, we propose to the Bulgarian National Assembly today, on the basis of this proposal, to cancel the restrictions on the travel of Russian MPs, because at the same time the contacts between other political institutions and their representatives at the highest level continue! It makes no sense to limit the travel of Russian MPs and they cannot be placed on any international act and document in any list because of their votes or positions! I call on you to support this first step with today's vote to improve, including the Bulgarian-Russian relations, which will be heard and seen and which will help our country, our foreign policy and the Prime Minister's personal position in the Balkan and European relations. I think it's a good time and it's ripe. If you miss it today, in a few weeks I think we'll be last and then there will be no result of our vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u17	Any lines to Mr. Zablyanov? I won't. Mr. Kuchukov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll be brief. I fully support the motives of the importers and the colleagues before me. I will try from a purely pragmatic point of view to say why I and the ABB Parliamentary Group will support this project. There is obviously a problem between the European Union and the Russian Federation. It is obvious that this problem has been answered by the European Union's initial response to the Russian Federation, and then reciprocally by the Russian Federation to certain representatives of the European Union. Embargo can contribute only one thing to point to the culprit, and it is in the opinion of those who impose it. Embargo doesn't contribute to resolving the conflict. The conflict is resolved only through dialogue. I don't want to talk about the other harder means of resolving conflicts. Since the only sensible means of resolving the conflict is dialogue, the most illogical thing is that people who should be conducting this dialogue should be deprived of the opportunity to communicate with each other. This concerns not only Russian parliamentarians. You know very well that the countermeasures of the Russian Federation included restrictions on some of the European diplomats and parliamentarians. In addition, the Russian Federation unofficially said it would block in all international organisations where there is a blocking quota, the representatives of these countries, in fact the people who contributed to the inclusion of the embargo. From this aggravation of tensions between the two countries, at the moment in dispute or conflict, no one benefits. I believe that the most direct way to resolve the unresolved problems is the contact between parliaments and the exchange of views. I also call for this vote to be voted in favour of the proposal of my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u19	Any lines to Mr. Kuchukov? I won't. Mr. Mikov has the floor to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u20	And an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u21	Extend group time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, I would not take the floor if I did not sound a deficit on an aspect that is very important to the place of parliaments in relations between the countries. What did this decision have to do? For a vote, honourable Members of Parliament, and modern democracy excludes MPs from being responsible for voting! The decision itself was a mistake, and today more and more people in the world understand that it must be abolished. It was not a coincidence that the possibility of a derogation was put in place, but it is also in the hands of the executive! This is a suppression of modern parliamentaryism and a stupid decision by Europe! I think more and more people are aware of it. The executive authorities of the ministers, presidents, are in contact. They visit the countries and, at the same time, with regard to the representatives of the people, the parliamentarians, such a ban has been imposed. This is stupid and ridiculous because the contacts at the highest level between Kerry and Lavrov, between Putin and his colleagues, between the ministers of the European Union continue and the parliaments are limited, the MPs are limited. One such decision is an act of domination of the executive power over the parliaments, which I think everyone reasonable and conscious of himself as a representative of the Parliamentary people must understand. This is the aspect of the problem that must be a clear signal that we, as Parliament, should submit to the executive, and it must stand for this position in Europe. I hope that there will never again be such European politicians or officials in Europe to sanction parliamentarians for the way they voted on a matter. Otherwise, the development of such a trend can lead to an escalation of suppression of parliamentaryism. I believe that this aspect is also important and should sound at least in our Parliament if European bureaucrats place their small accounts on the relations between the countries over the normal rules of democracy. Thank you. [[Private applause by BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u23	Any lines to Mr. Mikov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! It seems to me that silence on the right is also a position that is very revealing. I feel like you just didn't get the proper instructions. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I am sure that if this afternoon the German Chancellor says: 'Yes, we are going to this decision', you will all support it. Since it has not spoken and respectively the chief has not given instructions to the younger one, for this reason on the right you are silent and do not even consider it necessary to say what your opinion is. Most of you will not vote on one part you will abstain, one part you will be against. We know that scheme. However, is it useful for Bulgaria? I would like to remind you that 20 Russian parliamentarians are currently on these ban lists, the leading Russian parliamentarians who are involved in foreign policy, the relations of the Russian Parliament, the Federation Council and, accordingly, the Russian word in international contacts. Of course, some will say: "No one forbids them, visits are possible at international forums under the relevant exceptions. " During these two years, we were convinced that putting parliamentarians on the ban lists was a mistake. It limited the possibility of adequate, normal parliamentary dialogue and therefore limited the possibility of seeking mutually acceptable solutions in relation to both the situation in Eastern Ukraine and the situation in Eastern Ukraine. Facts are facts, we don't invent them here, offering our solutions. Fortunately, none of these proposals came from Bulgaria, but also Bulgaria at any time, even when it was clear that these sanctions did not really work anymore, in no way resisted. I would like to add that more than half of the people on the lists were listed in the second half of 2014, in 2015, including in the autumn of 2015. I think a period in which it was absurd to continue with this policy. Our proposal was made in December. It's June 1st now. It was sufficiently up to date then, to date, even more up-to-date, because by the end of July, the European Union is about to decide whether sanctions, economic sanctions, including, in terms of the Russian Federation, will remain in force. A number of leaders have said that automatic continuation cannot be possible this time. Not one or two presidents and prime ministers said the sanctions were practically not working. Here I will point out that they work in terms of causing economic damage to both the Russian Federation and the EU member states, but these sanctions do not achieve and will not achieve the political objective for which they were introduced. Any deceiving in this direction is now completely meaningless. There will be discussions, there will be proposals, and I am convinced that one of the possible compromises that can be reached now, in July, is to move towards a gradual lifting of these sanctions. Of course, a reciprocal, agreed, and the first and quite adequate and logical step would be exactly what we are proposing today. It will not put Bulgaria in a disadvantage, quite the opposite. We give the Bulgarian Parliament a chance, respectively, to initiate a policy that is inevitable. The sanctions will fall, they will fall gradually, and the first stage can be exactly that. I think that politically, both in terms of the Russian Federation and in terms of our position in the European Union, if today this proposal is supported, it will benefit Bulgaria. We're anything but irresponsible. We are making these proposals because we believe that they are important to Bulgaria because they are important to the European Union as well. The silence on this issue, I stress again, here on the right, the silence on this issue on the part of the Bulgarian government for us is incomprehensible. If it is true what Prime Minister Borisov said more than once, by the way, that he is personally opposed to these sanctions, that they do not produce results, let him have the courage in this situation, along with the other prime ministers who have already spoken in this direction, to come together and make adequate proposals. It is insulting for me to keep Bulgaria in a subordinate position and wait for what the big bosses will say. We are a country that has its interests, we are a country that is equal in the European Union and I think it is perfectly logical both the Bulgarian National Assembly and the Bulgarian Parliament to have a position on these issues. I suggest you support our proposal, which is motivated, there is no politics in it, there is no partisan, there is only logic and this logic will give results for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u25	- What's the line? I won't. The word is Mr. Chukolov, after him Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ataka Party will support the decision submitted by BSP colleagues. We will support this decision because from two years ago, as the speaker said, we are submitting all kinds of declarations and decisions, and changes to the Laws with which we want to normalize our relations with Russia. What's happening right now? The ruling parties in Bulgaria, I say, are ruling parties, without referring to political parties, first because there are many, and, secondly, because even if other rulers come, who are now in opposition, perhaps the policy will be the same, but the government is currently making sure that our relations with Russia are frozen. It is clear to everyone, many of you in this Chamber also know it well, the Bulgarian people traditionally have good relations with Russia. Good attitude for being liberated, for being brothers in faith and so on. At the moment, however, Russia's attitude towards Bulgaria is very negative. They consider us all traitors, people who are simply ungrateful. That's the cruel truth. We don't have to hide her! With similar types of decisions, of course, that would change, of course, that both the Russian people and the Russian rulers would say, "Behold, look, Christian brothers in faith, we have liberated them, they are doing something to change the policy of the European Union as a whole." If we make such a decision, it will indeed be a precedent and become available to the wide masses in Russia, it will be positive to Bulgaria. If we make that decision! If we decide to cancel the sanctions, too! But you remember here, a few months ago, at the blitz parliamentary control, Mr. Borisov was here, Mr. Siderov then asked him: Here we talked about Prime Ministers of France, of Italy, Mr. Enchev pointed out other international factors that say how to improve relations that speak in their countries how sanctions should be dropped, how their countries lose from these sanctions. But as Mr. Borisov said when they go to Europe, they don't raise their hands to say I'm against it! Here it is time to ask ourselves the question: in fact, a Member State of the European Union, what type of sovereignty there is, can a State pursue a national policy towards its interests, in this situation that we are in, with this respect that we need to have towards the structures in the European Union? It's obvious we can't. And even here, in this room, to want to normalize relations with Russian parliamentarians, as they say, from Europe they will not give us, and here there will be abstentions, there will be people against the Russian parliamentarians, of course, who are on the right. I read the opinion received in the Commission when this decision was examined, and here is what: Mr. Valentin Porazov from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs came and simply said how should not be adopted such a decision. Mr. Vigenin, when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs, this Mr. Porazov must have been working there again. He will probably work with the next minister, probably on subsequent similar ideas for decisions and declarations of the National Assembly he will again express a similar position because Russia annexed Crimea and Sevastopol. He will again express this position and again in this way he will insist that we vote. But again, my appeal to you is to open our eyes! Mr. Vigenin, when you were in Kiev, we were in Crimea and Sevastopol. There, if you talk about an annex, you welcome a similar type of talk with a smile. There was a referendum with huge turnout, without any violations. The propaganda clichés that are under the barrel of the AKs and so on, they're just not true. They're just not true! Whoever doesn't believe, go ask, or invite here Russian parliamentarians to tell you in your eyes, because that's really how we were there, and we know what this is about. My appeal to you, honourable Members, is to support this decision of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Let us also support future solutions that ultimately do not want anything very important........... that want a normalization of relations with Russia.................................................................... That is why we have to work, with this thought we have to work, because the voters of all political parties want this.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u27	Any lines to Mr. Chukolov? I won't. The word is Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are at the end of the discussion on the proposed draft decision on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation. This cannot be called a parliamentary discussion because it does not state positions, except by MPs who have already spoken in support of the draft decision. Unlike my fellow Members who appealed to the majority to support the Decision, I renounce such an appeal because I know that the majority will not support it. It may have its arguments that express reservations about this draft decision, but silence shows that they themselves are not convinced of the correctness of the position they will express through their vote. Let's try to set the criterion in determining the position of the MPs and the parliamentary groups.................................................................................................. I realize that the arguments cannot be put here only in one country, but I think that if we are really aware of our national interest, we have the will to stand behind it, it prevails the arguments for the support of the Decision of this decision precisely by the Parliament, because it is the institution that expresses to the greatest extent, or should at least be so, the moods of the Bulgarian citizens and evaluates what the effects of the application of these restrictions of this ban regime are. It is also harmful to the Bulgarian economy, it also hinders the political relations between the two countries, so with this Project we do not now accurately appreciate the events in Crimea, Russia's policy or the European Union on all issues. Yeah, that's the background, and it can't be replaced at this point. But if we hold on to what has already been pointed out that the MPs in national parliaments, in the European Parliament, express positions that they share, which reflect public opinion in their countries, we cannot go to sanctioning positions and voting decisions, even because these sanctions do not apply to other branches of power. I participated in such a discussion at the January session in the Parliamentary Session of the Council of Europe. A resolution was adopted there regarding the imposition of sanctions on parliamentarians. It contains various plays. It also shows both clear positions at some points, more hesitant in others, but my opinion was that it was unacceptable when, with its behaviour, the MPs, did not violate either the laws or any international regulations to impose collective sanctions on them. For this reason, and for the fact that, within the Council of Europe itself, these sanctions do not affect the other branches of the organisation, we should refrain and the sanctions should have only that character when they are based on the guilty conduct of the relevant representatives, as provided for in the various national and international legal acts. In addition, it has already been pointed out that there are examples in Europe of members of the European Union who, as the National Assembly in France, have expressed their position. The act of parliamentarians in France has no official significance because foreign policy is formed by other institutions mainly. I think that right now, before the middle of the year, when in the European Union, both in the European Commission and in the Council of Europe, there is a discussion on whether sanctions will be continued both economically and politically, this Decision of the Bulgarian Parliament will be timely, because Bulgaria will show that it is one of the countries that raises this issue and seeks to take the sanctions, or at least the revision of these sanctions. Bear in mind that the Russian government itself, judging from yesterday's statement by Foreign Minister Lavrov, has already changed its tactics and said: we will not be insistent on proposals for lifting sanctions, because perhaps these sanctions, apart from the negative effect, lead to additional mobilisation of resources in Russia, on the fact that the country must bet on its own forces to improve the economy, to ensure its economic independence and to respond to the various problems and challenges facing it. It is high time, in my opinion, the Bulgarian Parliament not only decided on this issue, but supported the proposed Decision. It is a step in the discussion that the European Union must have. Finally, we must also highlight the fact of the position of those who want to oppose Russia. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam President. Take the necessary lessons from history. Usually when Russia was surrounded and pressured, it strengthened its positions and then proved it. So also those who are for the development of relations with Russia and against the Russians have reasons to vote for the Russians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u29	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? Mrs. Gemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to say that it was not the opposition that made me say my position and the position of the GERB party. I don't think we're good at talking because we don't have a position. We have a position, and it's consistent, it's been expressed over time multiple times. It is true that the situation is changing. The sanctions were imposed in 2014. They continue to be reaffirmed in their scope during these two and a half years. It is true that there is a debate on whether they will be reduced, but it is a fact that in the end, no country has, despite the positions that have been claimed and the voices that we have heard, vetoed them so far. The reason for this is, in my opinion, that the European Union is a Union that is walking in a common foreign and security policy. The question today is whether we want to put this policy before the national decision, that is, whether we want to make the national decision stronger than that of the common policy. I can't help but draw a parallel here with what's coming on June 23rd in the UK. Regardless of what the UK decision will be, the domino effect will begin, as long as we read enough questions that are currently ahead in the European Union. In the end, I would like to tell you, in essence, that interparliamentary dialogue has not been broken and can be conducted if there is a desire from both sides, in the sense of the Russian Federation and of all the Member States of the European Union. It is true that a change of sanctions on a reciprocal and agreed basis could be discussed again. The question is, where do we want to go in general? I believe that you cannot make such statements, with such certainty as you say, that the Bulgarian public is against sanctions. Let's do this research to see who and how much is against sanctions. It is very unpleasant to hear that our President has now withdrawn his future candidacy because of this, because he has a permanent and clear position on this issue. It became clear that there was a possibility to derogate from the prohibition on access to the territory of the European Union of the natural persons listed in the Russian Federation. I will not repeat the conditions under which this derogation applies. I would like to finally recall that in January at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where the Russian Federation is a member, they themselves refused to reaffirm their capacity to participate there because they again expected the sanctions imposed against them to be reaffirmed. There is a possibility that in the October session of the Parliamentary Assembly they will again state their wish to renew their powers after their parliamentary elections. So we expect their decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u31	- What's the line? I won't. Any other MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. "Project" DECISION on the need to promote interparliamentary dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation National Assembly, - announcing strengthening interparliamentary contacts and dialogue between the European Union and the Russian Federation in order to gradually normalise relations and build synergies against international terrorism; - considering the introduction of bans on the free movement of parliamentarians by the executive at national and European level as inappropriate and contrary to the rules of democracy and insisting that such measures should not be applied in the future under any circumstances; - on the grounds of art. 86, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 85, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED The Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs shall present to the European Council and to the Council Foreign Affairs of the European Union a reasoned proposal to remove all parliamentarians from the EU's sentencing lists and negotiate simultaneous and reciprocal action by the Russian Federation. Colleagues, voting regime! They voted 124 MPs: 53, against 21, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! There were enough arguments in both directions of the vote, but it seems to me that now is the opportunity for the Bulgarian National Assembly to demonstrate that it is an independent national body and to earn the respect that is due to us. I don't want to make much of a bomb prediction, but I want to tell you that in another way they will look at the Bulgarian people after such a decision. No one will be harmed by authority. [[Strong noise in GERB.]] On the contrary, your authority will only increase! It won't work with the mandatory vote. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u33	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 127 MPs: 49, against 39, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. On behalf of the DPS, a declaration. There's a word for Mr. Karadaye, chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On May 29, it was 27 years since the extraordinary inclusion of Todor Zhivkov on BNT and BNR for the main purpose of a force deportation from the country of Turks and Muslims, which remained known as the Grand Tour. More than 360 grand. people are forced to abandon their homes, property quickly and to seek asylum in neighbouring Turkey and in Europe. Party propaganda, rumors of extreme solutions and obvious and hidden pressure are blowing mass psychosis and anti-human sentiments in society. This led to a large-scale migration wave in the summer months of 1989. There was anxiety, nationalist passions and xenophobia throughout society. On June 7th, at a meeting with the political elite Todor Zhivkov left no doubt about the meaning of the emerging mass eviction, saying: The riots in the country stopped after this exhibition on May 29th. We're on the verge of a major exodus psychosis. How should we evaluate this psychosis? We need such psychosis, she's welcome. I'm going to say something that we keep And the secret is that we have to take out 200.. 300 thousand. people of this population. Regardless of all the efforts of the Turkish state, which is ready to give shelter to the Bulgarian citizens affected by the state policy, on 21 August 1989 the crossing of vehicles and people at the Bulgarian-Turkish border was stopped. Economic and social problems arise in Bulgaria as whole villages and districts are depopulated completely or partially. From the very beginning of the forced renaming, as an antihuman act, caused internal resistance to all affected. This resistance in some cases and in some places receives external manifestations and grows into open demonstrations, riots and clashes. This resistance process has its beginning far in the past, but many of us have witnessed the events in the 1970s and we remember the 1970s, 1973, 1975, 1976, with riots, demonstrations and apparent victims in Blagoevgrad, Smolyan and Pazardzhik. During the violent change of names at the end of December 1984 there were demonstrations in the Eastern Rhodopes as a result of which there were also killed, and a special crisis headquarters was formed to suppress these riots in the country. In mid-January 1985 were the riots in Yablanovo, Sliven District, which were suppressed after the intervention of tanks of the Bulgarian army. In the period 1984- 1985, there were dozens of deaths, including a 17-month-old baby, hundreds were beaten and detained, and more than 500 were sent to the camp of Belene. After 1985, the resistance has acquired organized forms, mainly in Northeastern Bulgaria, and it has a significant role in shaping open civil opposition to the communist regime in its recent years. In May 1989, although the organizers led by Ahmed Dogan were in prisons, they managed to organize mass rallies, hunger strikes, protests that flooded all over Northeastern Bulgaria. Armed forces have been thrown against demonstrators, there have been many clashes, there have been dozens of deaths, hundreds of wounded. The May events of 1989 correspond directly to events related to the formation of open civil opposition and the fall of the totalitarian regime on 10 November 1989. Most of the emerging dissident groups are declared against the revival process. Requests for guarantee of minority rights in Bulgaria receive publicity mainly through statements in Western radio stations. The act of May 29, 1989 launched the end of the so-called "renaissance process" with the beginning of the end of the totalitarian regime in Bulgaria. Thus, the decision of the CCP of the BCP for the implementation of a program for violent change of the names of the Bulgarian Turks and Muslims suffers its categorical failure. This program, which remained in history as a revival process in which more than one million Muslims were forced to change their names, including those who died, which prohibits language, religious traditions, community and rituals, a process that aims to replace identity. With its anti-human nature it catalyzes the protest acts and movement of the Bulgarian Turks and Muslims and all the democratic thinking people in the country. Internationally, the events in Bulgaria are also related to the conference of the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe. The OSCE is now dedicated to human rights issues and the free movement of people across borders held in Paris from 30 May to 23 June 1989. Both at this conference and at the subsequent conference on human dimensions in Copenhagen from 5 to 29 June 1990 it is noted that respect for rights and freedoms is at the heart of democracy. The public knows very little about all this. There's no punishment for crimes. Those processes are the basis for the creation of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms by Dr. Ahmed Dogan and for 27 years the DPS has been pursuing a consistent policy for strengthening democracy in our homeland, for protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens, for justice, for security and stability in the country, in Europe and in the world. From the DPS we ask that events related to the so-called "renaissance process" with the May events and the events of December 1989 receive their historical assessment. We are convinced that such an assessment will take place and it will announce all the victims of the Bulgarian democracy, the related persons with the processes of the pioneers of our newest democratic history. Nevertheless, in recent years we have seen again the language of hatred, which in the last two years has become the main language of communication even from the stands of the National Assembly. And today there are some, even in this room, who are sending us away again. Maybe they want to kick us out of home again, from home?! And today the constitutional rights of Bulgarian citizens are being violated. The right to vote, the right to language. We all want to state firmly: this will not happen! That's what the Movement for Rights and Freedom is about. We will continue to fight for the rights and freedoms of all Bulgarian citizens because they are not given free, they are defended through daily struggle and require full dedication. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Finally, given today's International Children's Day, I will end with a call in the name of the children who are our future: let us make it so that, instead of lying and hating, our children can live with the truth, in tolerance and togetherness. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u35	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Moving on to point two of our program: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. Importers shutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014, No 454-01-27. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. No report has been submitted. On behalf of the importer, we're listening, Mr. Kazak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yes, indeed, this is one of the oldest drafts submitted to the forty-third National Assembly by the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms at the very beginning of this term. This bill is part of a series of bills that we introduced at the beginning and aim to correct some remnants of our tragic past, remnants of the greatest perversions of the communist regime, one of which is also the so-called rebirth process, which you just heard our declaration about. Unfortunately, still, so many years after the end, after the fall of the communist regime, after the violently changed names of hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens during the so-called "renaissance process" still in many Criminal Offices of the District Courts were restored, when a certain group of Bulgarian citizens who were victims of this revival process, at the time when they submitted applications for the issue of a Criminal Certificate, very often the employees in these offices turned to them with the explicit request to state in addition to the real one, their current name, the three names with which they are currently on the identity document, are required to indicate and forcefully the Bulgarian names imposed on them during the revival process. All these years, as a political party, we have become the subject of complaints, complaints by our constituents that these unacceptable practices continue to exist. Despite our repeated requests in all these years, insistences on different... and of the Ministry of Justice, and of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, to clear, to remove these practices, to remove the removal in the relevant registers of these forced names of these Bulgarian citizens, still these practices continue. The unwillingness of the relevant departments to finally delete those names from the registers, especially because of the unwillingness of the system of the Criminal Office, to build such a database in which it is clear to the employee, when this certificate is drawn up, that the person, of his acts, of his or her judicial past, including in that period, does not necessarily require the employee of that citizen to explicitly indicate that his or her name was imposed in that period. Despite the existence of Decree No 8 of 2008 and Decree No 14 of 2009, which supposedly govern the full integration of the two national databases, namely "The National Database" "Population" to the Esgraion and the National Database of the Criminal Court Office," it appears that this integration has not yet been achieved when these practices continue. We submit this bill for the sole purpose of making one, finally forcing the relevant departments to do their job and actually integrate the two systems of databases so that no one is required to make such unacceptable requests to the respective Bulgarian citizen who makes actions to issue a criminal certificate. On the other hand, we want to force the employees of the Court of Justice to stop with these ineligible practices, that is to say, to explicitly prohibit those employees from asking, to require the applicant concerned to state, in addition to his real names, which are in his identity documents and in his birth certificate, to declare another name which was forced upon him at the time. We think that 27 years after the end of the communist regime, it is high time that these unacceptable practices, which bring back memories of those dark times, were stopped once and for all. We hope that all MPs will support our bill, as it aims to remove the last remnants of a crime of the communist regime, which drew a dark page in the latest history of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kazak. My fellow Members, I'm opening the debate on the bill. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? There aren't any. Understandably, there has already been a debate on this bill. I'm closing the debate. We'll move on to the vote. I ask the Quaestors to invite colleagues who are on the sidelines and guide them in the right direction. Honourable Members, we are voting on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Judicial Law, No 454-01-27, submitted by Lutvi Mestan and a group of MPs on 27 October 2014. They voted 96 MPs: 25, against 25, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kazak, re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am making a procedural proposal for a re-voting because, apparently, after the previous debates, some of my fellow Members were not in the Chamber and failed to vote, and it seems to me that especially those political forces who claim to confess democratic values [[noise and lines]] who claim that really Bulgaria must be a real European country, to break up completely with its...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u39	Please, no arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u40	...their totalitarian communist past, to vote, to support such a bill. [[(Noise and lines:) What is the procedure? What is the procedure?]] I think now is the time to show who are the real Democrats, the real, not only in words, and who are only Democrats when they have to win votes from this group of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u41	We understand you, Mr. Kazak. Dear colleagues, re-vote. They voted 103 MPs: 25, against 30, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. Honourable Members, we are going to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. Importers are the national representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The bill has been reported and examined by two committees. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the leading committee. A report will be presented by the people's representative Dr. Hassan Ademov. You have the floor, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Code Appendix Bill for social security, No 654-01-5 imported by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 20 January 2016 The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 17 February 2016 examined and discussed the Draft Law on Supplement to the Social Security Code, with the importer Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Mr. Biser Petkov and Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Manager and Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mr. Zhivko Petrov, Director of the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration, Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Directorate, and Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and representatives of the union and employers' organizations. The bill was presented by the MP Mr. Dimitar Bayraktarov. Prior to the presentation of the Bill, he presented data relating to the number of retired sailors in the period 2000 "2015," the number of non-retired for the period after 2010, wages, etc. According to the reasons of the bill, the proposed changes are related to the introduction of a special retirement regime for sailors, in accordance with the imperative requirements of Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation, concerning the pensions of sailors. The importers also refer to Decision No 8417 of 8 July 2015 of the Supreme Administrative Court, which assumes that regarding the retirement of sailors in the Bulgarian legislation no preferential regime is provided for persons engaged in a profession of seaman on board ships sailing by sea to meet the requirements of Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation. According to the importers of the bill, the current provision of § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code leads to the practice that sailors cannot retire due to their inability to meet its requirements. The importers find that the change they propose, namely with a new Article 69d and a change of art. 104 of the Social Security Code, a special retirement regime for sailors flying the Bulgarian flag will be introduced and the requirements of Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation and Decision No 8417 of the Supreme Administrative Court will be met. The Commission received and submitted to the importers of the Draft and the members of the Commission opinions of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, National Insurance Institute, Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Bulgarian Industrial Association, KT The discussion was attended by MPs Hasan Ademov and Dimitar Bajraktarov, representatives of the institutions and representatives of two of the employers' organizations. In the statements made and in the written opinions, the understanding that § 4, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, in which the conditions for retirement of persons who worked under the conditions of first and second categories of work and art. 168, para. Art. 1, art. 69b, para. 1 and para. 2 shall not enter into a Coliseum with the provision of art. 3, para. 1 letter from the International Labour Organisation's Convention No 71. It was noted that this text of the Convention requires the pensions of seafarers to be granted when they have served a certain period of work by sea, at the age of 55 and 60, as provided for in the pension scheme of national law. It is clear from the same text that other retirement conditions, such as the duration of the pension entitlement or a certain sum of the internship and the retirement age, are not introduced apart from the retirement age limit. The Bulgarian legislation regulates more favourable conditions with regard to the persons who have performed the profession of a seaman on the acquisition of a personal pension for internship and age, significantly lower than the one established in the Convention. According to most of the opinions, it is not necessary to regulate the retirement conditions for seafarers separately from those for all other persons who worked under harmful and difficult working conditions. After the end of the discussion and the vote held with results of 6 votes in favour, without votes................................................................................................... and 8 votes................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Following is a report from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Valkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code, No 654-01-5, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 20 January 2016. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 6 April 2016, a bill was discussed to supplement the Social Security Code, No 654-01-5, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 20 January 2016. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Department of Labour Law, Social Security and Labour at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and Mrs. Pavlina Kovacheva, Expert at the Executive Agency of the Sea Administration. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Bajraktarov. Mr. Bajraktarov noted that the Republic of Bulgaria, with Decree No 745 of the Presidium of the Grand National Assembly of 31 August 1949, ratified Convention No 71 on the pensions of sailors of 1946, in force for our country of 10 October 1962. The Convention obliges the States which ratified it to introduce a special retirement regime for sailors employed on board or for the service of any maritime merchant ship over 200 tonnes of tonnage registered on the territory of the State of the country of the Convention. According to importers, the Republic of Bulgaria has not yet fulfilled this commitment. In support of this claim, the people's representative pointed out that it is apparent from the reasons of Decision No 8471 of 8 July 2015. The Supreme Administrative Court has held that in respect of the retirement of sailors in the Bulgarian legislation no preferential regime has been provided for persons engaged in a profession of seaman on board ships sailing by sea to meet the requirements of Convention No 71. In this regard, it is proposed that the Social Security Code create a new art. 69d, regulating a special regime for the retirement of seafarers in accordance with the requirements of the abovementioned Convention. The draft presents opinions from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Insurance Institute, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Maritime Chamber, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Labour. After the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held. Ms Petya Malakova said the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not support the proposed bill. The opinion they maintain is that the Code on Social Security lays down the more favourable conditions for the retirement of seafarers, both until 31 December 2015, when the provision of § 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code was applied, and after 1 January 2016, with changes in retirement conditions for all categories of persons introduced. The Ministry does not support the establishment of sailors in an independent group of persons outside the one they fall into, namely those working under the conditions of first and second categories of work. Ms. Pavlina Kovacheva noted that at present in Bulgarian legislation there is no mechanism for the precise fulfilment of the obligations arising from the Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation, which is why the Executive Agency The discussion was attended by the national representative Iskren Veselinov, who expressed his support for the proposed addition to the Social Security Code. After the discussion and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 4 votes for the Social Security Code, No 654-01-5, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 20 January 2016, proposed that a draft supplement to the Social Security Code, No 654-01-5, submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 20 January 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u45	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. On behalf of the importers Mr. Bayraktarov will present the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, today I will try to present to you this Bill in the most accessible way possible, as the matter is really specific. In order for a person to understand it, you have to read an awful lot of material. For this reason, I will try to spare you these inconveniences if someone has not bothered to read all this complex matter. What's this about, fellow Members? First of all, in 1946 or exactly 70 years ago, Bulgaria ratified Convention No 71 of the International Labour Organisation, which is mandatory for implementation on a preferential regime for the retirement of sailors. This Convention provides for the following arrangements. The first condition and the first requirement is that sailors have a corresponding number of years of service for the first and second categories. For the first category, the internship must be at least 10 years, for the second category must be 15 years, as well as relevant age. Our legislation provides for the age of 55 years and 60 years. However, our legislator, in the face of the former Deputy Prime Minister, as these were his proposals, introduced a third criterion which purely mathematically makes Convention 71 impossible, namely for sailors to have a common sum of points equal to 100. And since many untruths were spoken here by both committees, one of these untruths was that the Bulgarian legislation envisioned a more favourable retirement regime. I will ask him to become a colleague after I make a statement on the bill and to state precisely and clearly the texts that give this opportunity. I strongly state that there are no such texts. And in order not only for me to be the applicant, I will read you a ruling of Supreme Administrative Court No 8417 of 8 July 2015. The first opinion with which the court comes out is that Convention 71 has not been implemented in the Bulgarian legislation, that is, we have violated the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition, as the court has said, the preferential regime referred to in Paragraph 4 does not in any way apply Convention 71. This preferential regime is only applied to persons who worked in mines and this is the regime under art. No. 104, para. 3 of the Social Security Code. I also want to tell you some other interesting things that have not been communicated here. The Ministry of Transport expressed its strong support for this bill, as through it we will enable more than 30 thousand Bulgarian officers, sailors who are providing and importing their insurance not in Bulgaria, but abroad, to start providing in Bulgaria the maximum insurance threshold, which is currently BGN 2600. I mean, we're going to put some money into the NSI budget, which is almost over 5 billion deficits at this point anyway. I mean, I'm asking: those who don't want to support this bill, what do they really want? They want the NOI deficit to get bigger? Bulgarian highly qualified officers not to be provided in Bulgaria, but to provide and fill foreign pension funds? And thirdly, which is the most unpleasant, any moment since the International Contracts Act is not implemented, a very serious claim for damage to nearly 80 thousand Bulgarian sailors can be made to Bulgaria. Sadly, some of them live like hobos for this reason they can't retire. Bulgarian decent sailors! A large part of the people who have worked in the Oceanic fishing area simply cannot retire because of this third element, which has been introduced for a total of 100 points. And I'm not going to tell you that right now, this Law is entering into the Coliseum of the newly adopted Law on Equality between Women and Men. Because, as your colleagues in the Sea Administration told you, where is the regime for women sailors? Nowhere. So I would ask you, colleagues, to support this Bill, because it is consistent with the fulfilment of the commitments of Bulgaria made 70 years ago, with the International Contracts Act and, most importantly, for the performance of a justice which at last the forty-third National Assembly must create with the adoption of these proposals in the Social Security Code, namely the retirement regime of Bulgarian sailors. Thank you for your attention. If someone didn't understand, I'm ready to explain, to provide official documents so that it can be easier for you to navigate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Bayraktarov. The debate is open. Are there any MPs who wish to take part in this bill? Are there any eligible MPs? I won't. The debate is closed. I'm inviting the MPs to the auditorium. There's a vote coming up. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Social Security Code No 654-01-5 submitted by Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs on 20 January 2016. Vote 88 MPs: 35 against none, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. To re-vote Mr. Bayraktarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u48	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want a re-voting procedure before my eyes Mr. Yonchev failed to vote, he can confirm it. Secondly, colleagues from GERB mostly! Support the bill. It's a good bill. That's what I'm trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u49	Colleagues, re-vote. They voted 91 MPs: 35 against none, 56 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the next point of the weekly program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016. We're listening, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u50	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I propose to your attention a Report on a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Support Act, No 602-01-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 12 May 2016, adopted on the first vote on 19 May 2016. "Improvement and Supplement to the Agricultural Aid Act" (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u51	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, supported by the Committee on Importation. Vote 76 MPs: for 75, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u52	Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to set up new paragraphs 1 ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 2 t. Two is canceled. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2c the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture and Food controls the activities of the Paying Agency through a specialized unit in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. 2. In para. 2 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28a, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 words. This Decision shall enter into force on the 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 shall be added at the end by art. 28b, para. § 4. Article 28b is amended as follows: Art. 28b. (1) The Executive Agency shall be a certifying body within the meaning of art. 9 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 carrying out a certification audit on the correctness of the financial statements and the system of control set up at the Paying Agency. (2) In carrying out their activities the Agency under para. 1 shall be operationally independent from the Paying Agency and from the authority which has accredited the Paying Agency and its activities shall be carried out on the basis of independence, impartiality, professionalism, integrity, consistency, publicity and transparency. (3) The Executive Director of the Agency under para. 1 shall be elected and released by a decision of the Council of Ministers and shall be appointed and released by order of the Prime Minister. (4) The budget of the Agency shall be determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the year concerned. § 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38b, para. 3, p. 1 is finally added, which has been obtained from non-farm activities in the nearest tax year for which such evidence is available. § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43a, para. 4 the words "supplied"§ 5 is replaced by "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u53	Statements, colleagues, on the Commission proposal, are the creation of new paragraphs 1 and 6? I won't. We are voting on these paragraphs, in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 74 MPs: 72, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u54	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u55	We vote. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u56	Paragraph 2. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer for § 2 but because it does not comply with art. 50, para. 1 of Decree No 833 on the application of the Law on Legislative Acts, proposes to be formed in new paragraphs 8 ................................................................................... Article 47a is amended as follows: Art. 47a. (1) The administration of the State aid scheme in the form of a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production shall be the Minister of Agriculture and Food. (2) The State aid scheme shall apply until 31 December 2020, subject to the conditions of Chapter I and Article III. 44 of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OJ L 187, 26 June 2014).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 652/2014'. (3) The mechanism under the State aid scheme shall apply for the calendar years 2015 to 2020 including subject to art. The first sentence of Article 58 (4) of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014. (4) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall establish by order guidelines for the implementation of the State aid scheme, including the scheme mechanism. § 9. Article 47b is amended as follows: Art. 47b. (1) The total amount of State aid shall be determined by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for the financial year concerned and shall be allocated to farmers on the basis of the determined under art. 47d, para. 3 individual annual quota. (2) State aid shall be granted for purchased gas oil under art. 32, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses used for mechanised activities in primary agricultural production. (3) The gross equivalent of the State aid shall be the cash equivalent of the discount determined in accordance with art. 47f, para. 1. (4) The individual amount of State aid shall be the product between the discount determined by the order of art. 47f, para. 1 and the individual annual quota determined under Art. 1. 47d, para. 3. (5) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall issue an order to confirm the notification of recovery of individual amounts of State aid. The notification shall contain: 1. identification data for farmers (full name/three names, BULstat/GN/LCH TRIC); 2. the individual amount of State aid for each farmer; 3. details of the bank accounts by which the amounts under point will be recovered. 2, and their holder; 4. permanent address of natural persons or sole traders or address of the management of legal persons. (6) Date of granting of State aid shall be the date of issue of the order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food to confirm the notification under para. 5 which is subject to pre-execution. § 10. Article 47c is amended as follows: Art. 47c. (1) The right to a discount on the value of excise duty on gas oil used in primary agricultural production shall have the farmers entered in the register under art. 7 which: 1. no public obligations required; 2. are not in open insolvency proceedings or are not declared bankrupt; 3. are not in liquidation proceedings; 4. are not firms in difficulty; 5. have not received any other public funding for the same costs; 6. have a valid application for support under the single area payment scheme and tied animal support schemes for the year preceding the year of application under the State aid scheme; farmers growing species and categories of animals not covered by the tied animal support scheme shall have a registered establishment under the Veterinary Activity Act. (2) Farmers shall apply for State aid under a model, format and order of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. (3) The application shall be submitted to the Municipal Agriculture Office to the Regional Directorate of Agriculture at the permanent address of the natural persons or sole traders or at the address of the management of the legal persons within a time limit laid down by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. The application shall be accompanied by copies of and inventory of the invoices for purchased gas oil as well as other documents specified in the instructions under art. 47a, para. 4. (4) Farmers who have been found to have infringed the State aid scheme shall not be entitled to apply for the same aid for a period of two years from the establishment of the infringement. § 11. Article 47d is amended as follows: Art. 47 years old. (1) The maximum quantity of oil in litres for which part of the excise value may be recovered shall be calculated according to the Methodology for determining the individual annual quotas for the implementation of a State aid scheme "Help in the form of a discount from the value of excise duty on the gas oil used in the primary production' on the basis of eligible areas and/or animals established. (2) The methodology under para. 1 shall be validated by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food. (3) An individual annual quota in litres shall be fixed for each farmer, which shall be lower than: 1. the maximum level of gas oil under para. 1, and 2. the quantity of gas purchased by invoices. (4) The farmer shall be reimbursed the part of the value of the excise duty representing the individual amount of State aid determined under art. 47b, para. 4. The minimum tax rate paid by the farmer for motor fuel oil as set out in Table B of Annex I to Council Directive 2003/96/EC of 27 October 2003 restructuring the Community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2003/96/EC, is not subject to reimbursement. (5) Invoices of purchased gas oil shall be kept by farmers within 10 years from 1 January of the year following the year of issue of the invoices. § 12. Article 47e is amended as follows: Art. 47e. The procedure for carrying out inspections of invoices for the purchased gas oil shall be determined by a joint instruction of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture and Food. § 13. Article 47f is amended as follows: Art. 47f. (1) The discount from the value of excise duty per litre of purchased gas oil shall be determined in levs according to the following formula: OSA = ORP / IGKi, where: OSA is the discount on the value of excise duty per litre of gas oil purchased; The RDP is the total amount of State aid under art. 47b, para. 1; IGKis are farmers' individual annual quotas for the year concerned in litres. (2) The Minister of Agriculture and Food shall order the discount under para. 1 for the year concerned. If necessary, the Minister of Agriculture and Food reduces the discount to the difference under para. 3. (3) The discount under para. 1 shall not exceed the difference between the rate of excise duty per litre of gas oil purchased under art. 32, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and the minimum tax rate for motor fuel oil set out in Table B of Annex I to Directive 2003/96/EC. § 14. Article 47g is amended as follows: Art. 47g. (1) The Customs Agency shall recover the part of the value of the excise duty representing the individual amounts of State aid on the basis of the order and notification of the Minister of Agriculture and Food under art. 47b, para. 5. (2) The total amount of the amounts under para. 1 shall not exceed the total amount of State aid under art. 47b, ) (a.k.a. 1. (3) Recovery shall be carried out in accordance with the order of art. 45e of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses in the year following the year in which the excise duty payable for the spent goods in the primary agricultural production was paid. § 15. Article 47h is amended as follows: Art. 47z. State aid under this Chapter shall not be granted to a farmer who has not implemented a decision of the European Commission to recover unlawful and incompatible State aid received and has not fully recovered the aid. § 16. Article 47i is amended as follows: Art. 47th. For the purposes of the control under this Chapter, the checks carried out by the Paying Agency under art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Dear colleagues, we have been offered nine paragraphs in substance, from 8 to 16 inclusive. Are there any speeches? I won't. Honourable Members, we are voting on the text of the importer for § 2, which the Commission proposes to form in new paragraphs 8 to 16 inclusive. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Articles 47k "47o" shall be repealed. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. Article 52 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u59	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer edited by the Commission for paragraphs 3 and 4, which shall be renumbered in paragraphs 17 and 18. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u60	Paragraph 5. Proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 3 is replaced by the following: 53: Art. 53. (1) A farmer who violates the provisions of Chapter 4 shall be fined from 2000 to 5000 BGN, respectively a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) The acts of infringement under para. 1 shall be drawn up by officials from the respective Regional Directorate of Agriculture who shall be responsible for carrying out the checks. (3) The Penal Orders shall be issued by the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture or by officials appointed by him. (4) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u61	Statements? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer for § 5, edited by the Commission, which becomes § 19. They voted 71 MPs: for 71, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u62	Paragraph 6. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. Two of the subs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 14 words to take away the accreditation of the Paying Agency and to designate the certifying authority shall be replaced by the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. Point 46 is repealed. 3. point 47 is amended as follows: ..47. "Employment in difficulty" is a concept within the meaning of art. 2 paragraph 18 of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014 4. Point 51 is repealed. 5. A t is created. 56: ..56. A valid application for assistance is an application containing all mandatory application data under the single area payment scheme and animal support schemes and after processing and control by the State Fund
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u63	Speeches, honourable colleagues? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer edited by the Commission for § 20. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u64	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Chapter Three, Section VI, with art. 45a-45d is canceled. 2. Section VII with Article 3 shall be established in Chapter 3. 45e and 45f: Section VII Special order for the refund of excise duty on purchased gas oil used in primary agricultural production Art. 45d. (1) The Customs Agency shall recover the part of the value of the excise duty representing the individual amounts of State aid determined in accordance with the order of Chapter Four of the Agricultural Assistance Act. The refund shall be made on the basis of the order and notification of the Minister of Agriculture and Food under art. 47b, para. 5 of the Agricultural Support Act. (2) The refund shall be made within 45 days of receipt of the documents under para. 1. (3) The Director of the Customs Agency shall issue internal rules for determining the order for reimbursement of the amounts set out in the notification art. 47b, para. 5 of the Agricultural Support Act. (4) The order and manner of exchange of information between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Customs Agency shall be determined by a joint instruction of the Minister of Agriculture and Food and the Director of the Customs Agency. Art. 45f. Where it is found that an excise duty has been unduly recovered to a farmer, it shall be reimbursed by the farmer, together with the legal interest, from the date of receipt of the State aid until the date on which it was lodged on the account of the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u65	Statements? I won't. [[Declarations between the rapporteur Rumen Hristov and the assistant of the Committee on Agriculture and Food.]] Please see what you haven't reported and read on the microphone before we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u66	In para. 3 after 47b.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u67	Missed is the "po" which is inserted in para. 3 before the text. 47b. We are voting, honourable Members, the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the subdivision and the version of § 7 by importer which, on a proposal from the Commission, becomes § 21, together with the version made. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been adopted unanimously. Before we stop for a break, let me inform my fellow Members that the folklore staff of the village of Kapitacitsa will present a short program at the Club of the National Representative from 11.30 on the occasion of 1 June. We're inviting all the MPs. We'll proceed with the blitzcontrol. If the blitzcontrol ends before 2:00 p.m., we continue reporting the bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u68	I'm inviting the MPs to the House! The sitting will continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL BY THE ENTITY OF TURN. 104 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. As I informed earlier this morning the participants in the Conference of Presidents, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov is unable to participate, as he has an international commitment related to the summit on the occasion of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the South East Cooperation Process. The three deputy prime ministers will participate in the blitz-control. Any moment now we expect the present Mrs. Bachvarova and Mr. Donchev to join Mrs. Kuneva. I'm reminding you of the blitzcontrol procedure. Each parliamentary group has the opportunity to ask two questions within two minutes to develop each of the questions, the respective Deputy Prime Minister shall answer within three minutes the possibility of a reply and a duplicate. The right to questions have in every single round, two questions in total, and the MPs who are not members of a parliamentary group. The order is according to the number of parliamentary groups. First is the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Are there any questions from the GERB Parliamentary Group? They're missing the first round of questions. From the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. The first question will be asked by Mr. Rumen Gechev. Here you go. Mrs. Kuneva joins the deputy prime ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev. Mr. Donchev, yesterday Bulgaria entered the negative side of the news in Europe with the fact that according to OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office with EU Funds, Bulgaria is located in the first three countries on violations of legislation and corruption in the absorption of funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u70	You didn't read that report!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u71	An example was given with the programmes for the absorption of funds, which resulted in the example given in the project of 1.3 million. EUR for frozen vegetable establishments. We are talking about a frozen vegetable plant in Bulgaria, which is not only the poorest country in the European Union and with the lowest competitiveness, but a country that ranks as Europe's leader in corruption. In this regard, OLAF's same report says that in recent years of 54 signals that have been sent from private sources, only 5 signals have been sent by public institutions in connection with violations of European legislation on the absorption of funds. In this regard, the question is: for what reasons does Bulgaria rank in the first three of this shameful classification of Europe on corruption in the absorption of EU funds; why does the executive allow us to order ourselves in the first three countries, second in corruption in the European Union; and in this regard, what have you done to prevent such violations and abuses of European funds from happening in the future? What measures have been taken in the specific Bulgarian institutions for which you are responsible and which have allowed such frauds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u72	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Gechev, it is not necessary for you as an academic person to give advice that a person before talking, especially before asking something, is good to read, and from the way you ask me the question, I realize that you have hardly read the report in question. It is not such a long 48 pages and does not take that long and such an intellectual effort to read.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u74	Yeah, but it's in English.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u75	If you had read the report, by the way, you wouldn't have asked me that question. As for the report in question, there is nowhere present any of the findings that you have made just now, nor that Bulgaria is the most corrupt country, nor that it is in the first pair, threesome or any ranking. If you had read the report, you would know that the number of signals submitted by Bulgaria is not fifty-something, as you mentioned, but 34, of which 32 have been submitted from private sources and two have been submitted by the state. If you had read the report, you would understand that the relatively large number of investigations that are being conducted in Bulgaria are due, on the one hand, to the larger number of signals, and, as explicitly stated in the report, also due to the old open cases under the Sapard Programme, which are still running both as checks and as legal proceedings. If you had read the report more carefully, you would have noticed, this is one of the last tabular applications, that the huge number of cases related to irregularities, which means with errors or irregularities, are identified by the Bulgarian institutions. Those 513 cases in which all the state control bodies and auditors and managing bodies, as well as the Ministry of Interior services, did not come at all as a result of a referral by the European Anti-Fraud Office. The number of cases involving similar production on the part of OLAF is significantly lower.. 304, which means that the national institutions have done their job. Finally, it is appropriate to clarify that the Bulgarian institutions, especially the Afkos Directorate in the Ministry of Interior, are working closely with the European Anti-Fraud Office. Much of the checks that are being carried out are done not only with the participation of the experts from Afkos, but are made entirely by them, which is a sign of the high trust they have with regard to the Bulgarian institutions, which, by the way, has been confirmed more than once by officials of the services. And one last thing. There are attempts to abuse EU funds in each Member State. This is also evident from the report itself. That's not the scariest thing in itself. The scary thing is when state control authorities don't do their job when they try to cover up and cover up cases. As a historical check Bulgaria had similar experience in the period 2008-2009. A similar approach in recent years is absolutely unacceptable! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We're not trying to blur or cover up any problem. On the contrary, absolutely every signal is checked, investigated by the Bulgarian responsible institutions or jointly with the European Anti-Fraud Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u76	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. [[Applause.]] A line? Mr. Gechev has the opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u77	Mr. Donchev, we have read the report very carefully and in the original, so do not worry about reading the report [[GERB noise and lines]] But you didn't answer my question. In this case, I do not ask you what the behavior of the Bulgarian judicial authorities is, as there is a division of the authorities. You didn't answer. After it became clear to you a long time ago, and the Bulgarian institutions followed along with the Europeans on this scandalous case with 1.3 million. EUR, what have you done in the respective Bulgarian institutions that have approved this scandalous project, where a company sells itself equipment from Italy at prices increased several times? Answer the question how did this happen, and what did you do after you became aware of this case? Are these people fired? Have these people been replaced? Is the control changed in these institutions because it is about preventing such thefts and about Bulgaria leaving this shameful ranking. OLAF says we're in the first three in corruption. It is not BSP left Bulgaria. It is the specialized service of the European Union! So please answer the question! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u78	A hole, Mr. Donchev? Colleagues, the general noise and call from the place do not contribute to the quality of the debate in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u79	Honourable Professor. Gechev, I would be extremely grateful if you would point out to me, even highlight the passage where OLAF says something similar in this report that Bulgaria is in the top three countries on corruption. I want to see the passage. In the present case, it is a company owned by an Italian citizen, with a manager also an Italian citizen financed under the Rural Development Programme, which allowed itself, upon delivery, to also be delivered by a company that is once again its own. This is absolutely unacceptable. There's been a legitimate call...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u80	Who's the signal from?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u81	...and the European Anti-Fraud Office is under investigation for good reason. As in all such cases...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u82	Who's the signal coming from?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u83	If you'd read the report, you'd know who gave the signal. If you'd read the report! As in all such cases, in the event of such an irregularity, a financial correction must be required in the present case it must be 100%. What will be the fate of all other individuals depends on the actions of the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u84	Thank you. There is a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. There's no representative in the room. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Mihov, do you want the floor? Now follows the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block. Mr. Atanasov will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u85	Thank you, Madam President. My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I ask you the question about the fact that you, as Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs, are also concerned with monitoring the Ministry of Justice in this regard. Information was published last week that once again the independent analysis of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office was postponed, which was to be conducted with European experts. We know that this independent analysis was one of the main recommendations in the last Report of the European Commission on the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism of the Bulgarian justice system. The Bulgarian government is committed to ensuring co-operation of the member states of the European Union in the process of organising this independent analysis and it was thus recognised by the Bulgarian authorities that this is a key, state priority in the judicial reform policy and the fight against corruption. This was good news for the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state. The question is: why is this Mechanism postponed again? It was made public that the delay was in order to clarify a large part of the technical details of the mission's work methodology, as well as the experts' working meetings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So I ask you to answer my question: what are the real reasons for another delay in this Mission? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u86	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. MP, there is no further delay because it was a commitment that was adopted about a year ago, and in fact this is the first time such a Mission is intended to happen. There's no conspiracy theory behind this and any special motives. Due to the ongoing work on the technical assignment at expert level, the visit of four magistrates, who have to carry out an independent analysis of the prosecution, is postponed for several weeks. The prosecutors are from Britain, Germany, Spain and the Netherlands. They had to arrive on 30 May 2016 to begin interviews, the review of the regulations. The task of the experts is to gather an opinion on the structural and functional model of the state prosecution. You know what their tasks are: hierarchy, specialized structures, integrity, transparency and workload. The mission must assess the impact of the amendments to the Law on the Judiciary and the changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as the new anti-corruption law. Experts should also examine the work of the prosecution on several specific cases. All of this is going to happen. A large volume of acts have been translated into English, but as they remain for clarification much of the technical details in the mission's work methodology, as well as the working meetings of the experts, our partners from the European Commission have decided that it is better to postpone the mission by a few weeks. However, we now have another Mission on 30 May started the regular expert mission of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, led by the Deputy Secretary General of the European Commission Mrs. Paraskeviya Mihu. After the blitzcontrol is over, I'll have a meeting with her. Meetings shall be held with representatives of all institutions concerned with the Mechanism. I assure you that the European Commission will do its job professionally and seriously after making a commitment. And if I may joke, the European Commission may slow down, but it will never forget.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u88	The line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u89	Thank you, Madam President. And I hope that the European Commission will not forget. However, I ask you to specify: what are these technical details in the methodology? The European Commission or the representatives who will be sent by it have requested this postponement, or have such conditions been set by the Bulgarian side that are not feasible? Who is the reason for delaying this mission because it is extremely important? I would like to remind the People's Representation that very recently the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office is working on a Soviet model and that a radical change in the work of this institution is required in Sofia. The Bulgarian society relies precisely on this check by European experts to identify the disabilities in the work of the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office so that it can become more effective in order to seek real criminal responsibility for the serious crimes in the country and the fight against corruption. What is the reason for delaying this Mission and whether in this case we are facing a situation of sabotage by Bulgarian institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u90	A hole, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u91	Mr. Atanasov, since my experience with the European Commission since 2001, I don't know if anyone has been able to sabotage them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u92	There is a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group on the Patriotic Front. Mr. Valeri Simeonov will ask the first question from the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a question for Mrs. Bachvarova as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. My question is related to the security of our southern border and includes two sub-questions, of course, aimed at our two neighbouring countries, Turkey and Greece. With regard to the readmission agreement, which I welcome Minister Bachvarova, which was signed, my question is: is it working, is there any force in case there is no agreement between the European Union and Turkey? How much does this Agreement have the power of bilaterally between the two countries, and is there such a clause as to make it dependent on the development of relations between the European Union and Turkey? And the second question is related to the situation on our border with Greece. We are all witnessed by the two groups that crossed the southern border a few days ago, one by foot, and the other by trying to enter with a train composition. My question is: how many of these groups are being tracked as moving to the Bulgarian border; are some of them really from the camp "Immigrants" or not; do we have data, facts, whether they are being transported by trains organized, with assistance, excuse me, to the Greek State? As all flows through Greece are transported with the assistance of the Greek State so far. It is so called the Western Balkan road. To what extent is there a real threat from forming such a stream? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u94	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u95	Dear Mrs. Tsacheva, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Simeonov, regarding the security of our border with Turkey, I can say that the application of the Protocol, which was signed with the Turkish side, is effective as of today. We are about to make sure how it will be handled and how the Turkish side will deal with it. We will follow the procedures set out in this Protocol. The readmission agreement is not dependent on the Declaration between the European Union and Turkey, so there is no logic to be a correlation between these two documents unless there is such a political solution from the Turkish side. At the moment, I have no indication that I doubt there is such a danger, but at any given moment, we are not shutting it down. The next few days, we will monitor the flow of illegally passing, if there is one, and we will react by turning to the Turkish side. As for the security of the Bulgarian-Greek border, I would like to inform you and all MPs that in less than 24 hours, we have been able, in practice, for about 20 hours, with the assistance of Greek colleagues, to return the first group that was uploaded to a freight train composition. To date, no more than 72 hours from Monday, the second group that walked across a green border has been returned. It's a group I've had the opportunity to see and talk to. Indeed, they were in Idomeni and tried to disobey the Greek authorities, but to seek their own way through Bulgaria. I had a conversation with Minister Toscas. He assured me that they would be taken back. They take all measures to prevent the Greek territory from forming a route through Bulgaria. The information I have from other sources is that refugees who are in Turkey do not prefer, rather avoid thinking about a route through Bulgaria. This is clearly known by the traffickers, who are proposing to transport them to Central Europe, have told them that they will pass through Macedonia. They have not been informed that this road will pass through Bulgaria. We're doing our best. I have the assurance of the Greek side that they are also making such efforts, and where there are larger groups than 100 in the territory of Greece, they are guarded by gendarmerie.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u96	Thank you, Minister Bachvarova. You don't have a line, Mr. Simeonov. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Democratic Center there will be no question. Next up is the attack group. Mrs. Tasheva will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u97	My question is to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, we understand from the media that today a mysterious Chinese delegation is living in Bulgaria again, looking at the site of the NPP. I'll give you some background. On December 16th last year, about three weeks after your government's visit to China, here arrived some delegation You then said in the Council of Ministers that technology would be based on the technology of the "AP" of the "Westinghouse." You also said that the Bulgarian country is considering minority participation as it will give the site. Given that the requirement is to invest without state guarantees and that our country's participation will be minority, that is, it will decrease or can be done in such a way as to decrease, this means that you have a strategy to build a private nuclear power plant on a site on which they have already worked long-paid, profitable, cheap two reactors My question. Then in December, you said that within 3-4 months the Chinese would provide an economic model. The four months passed on April 16th. Would you like to say what this economic model includes? Would you give it to the National Assembly? And second, give information as the nuclear power plant is an entirely state-owned company, it must be a fully public-relaying company, as is said in English, where everything must be transparent.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What are its links with "Westinghouse" and why does "Westinghouse" prefer to enter Bulgaria in Chinese "deeds" rather than invest directly? What's with the mystique? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. I remind the Members of the National Assembly that the questions that are being asked in the blitz control should concern the general policy of the government, not specific issues requiring very specific information. Mr. Donchev, if you have this information, share it with the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Tasheva, there is no reason to burden with unnecessary mysticism all conversations that take place on economic and energy issues such as all conversations with different Chinese representatives. On the occasion of the proposal we received from the Chinese side to build a new nuclear power in Bulgaria. Unfortunately, there is no way I can provide you with a specific offer or offer as far as we do not have one. Just for the record, there are no binding negotiations at this stage. There's only talk. There's nothing to add other than what I said a few months ago. The Bulgarian side's exit position in terms of such a proposal is to base it on basic principles, that is, to rely on the natural demand for electricity at a market price in Bulgaria or in the region, not on a state guarantee, or to be built with a cost of the state budget, or by a state company. By the way, due to the state aid requirements at European level, such expenditure from the state budget is very difficult, almost impossible. So far, there's been no development, which suggests I'll give you something new. There's a conversation going on. There's nothing wrong with that. Any offer that comes from a serious company, especially supported by the state, deserves attention, deserves to be considered and considered. We haven't come to a stage where we're looking at a more specific option. Due to the importance of the topic, no matter that the initial idea was not to imply serious costs by the state, but when it comes to something similar, entering a mature phase, the National Assembly will be consulted and informed. Are you suggesting that on such a serious subject some minister, deputy minister or the Council of Ministers would allow himself to act without a sanction from the National Assembly?! This kind of thing is unacceptable. Let's have something serious at the table that deserves a comment or a serious discussion, and then...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u100	Here's a line for you, Mrs. Tasheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u101	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I understand from your answer that a group of bored Chinese people have come on a trip to Bulgaria. However, according to one of the media in Bulgaria, I quote: The following question is discussed: among the conditions of the Bulgarian country it is a similar project to develop only if it is economically justified, if no state guarantee is required, and if no mix of the price of the fifth and sixth block is required with the price of the future seventh and eighth block, as well as there is a strategic investor. "Those are words of Minister Temenuzhka Petkova, quoted by one edition with today's date. Besides, I asked you to tell me what's going on with the economic model? Is he supposed to be ready somewhere in April? If he wasn't introduced, why wasn't he introduced? If presented, what does it contain, when will you provide it to the National Assembly? That was my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u102	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u103	Dear Mrs. Tasheva, and to have come to Bulgaria several people who are bored, as you said, Chinese entrepreneurs, there is nothing wrong with that. This promotes Bulgarian tourism. There's absolutely nothing wrong with that! Of course, that's not the case. Why do we not have a detailed economic proposal? Perhaps the conversations are more complicated than expected, and this is the fact that it did not happen within the three months that I mentioned in my previous speech. I confirm my position if you come to a specific offer, proposal, anything other than the talks, the National Assembly will be informed immediately. Not only informed, he will participate in the decision-making process. I confirm that, on my part, as a briefing on the contact group of representatives of the Ministry of Energy who conduct the talks, I have given tasks and instructions to think, to talk about a scenario that does not include a state guarantee, does not include mixing the price with the existing blocks of the nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u104	Thank you. There is a question on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group. Mr. Kiril Tsochev will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u105	Dear Madam President, honourable Members Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to my esteemed Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. These days again became the topic of Russian pipeline across the Black Sea after the suspensions at the end of 2014. "South Stream" and the successor and also subsequently stopped "Turkish Stream." The construction of a pipeline along the bottom of the Black Sea to bypass Ukraine has long been Russia's priority. That a pipeline through the Black Sea to Greece and Italy could pass through Bulgaria was officially announced before President Putin's visit to Greece. Dear Mr. Donchev, can you tell us how the Bulgarian government sees such an idea? Do you think that if Russia complies with the principles of European legislation requiring the division of ownership of infrastructure and trade and ensuring access to the transmission capacity of third countries, Bulgaria can be included in the new gas project? Is there any prospect that the European Commission will approve such a decision after the statement of the EU Commissioner for Climate and Energy that security of supply is a major political priority and the new major projects do not meet this objective?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u106	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u107	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsochev, first of all, based on our past not particularly good experience, I believe that the Bulgarian government should avoid spontaneous, fast, if you will, emotional reactions in any announcement of a new energy project. Given that the modern energy, especially the gas sector, is regulated by an extremely complex, precise regulatory base, we need to be sure that any new project idea falls in line with the requirements of both national and, of course, European legislation. I am referring to our previous not very good experience with the South Stream project, which had certain conflicts with European legislation. Specifically, your question. Of course, we are watching very closely all the announcements about a new gas infrastructure, which is supposed to include Bulgaria. Whether such a gas pipeline with one or two plus pipes passing through the Black Sea, directly coincided with the sea part of the South Stream, passing through Bulgaria, passing through Greece and feeding Italy, by the way, relying on the available capacities of the order of 25 billion. Cube. In the direction from South to Northern Italy, is such a pipeline possible? The short answer is yes, for the simple reason: it fits perfectly into the Bulgarian ambitious initiative for the establishment of a gas distribution centre. Another thing is that a gas distribution centre like this wouldn't be possible if we didn't have a concentration of different, sufficient gas sources. Such would be difficult to have, without sufficient own extraction or without sufficient quantities of Russian pipe in the Black Sea. However, I would like to make it clear that, following the European directive, each country has at least three independent sources of gas, the distribution centre also includes opening up to new sources of gas. Here, first of all, it is necessary to mention the gas that will be supplied through the interconnector with Greece, originating either from the NG-terminal or from the gas pipeline of the Caspian region. It should not be underestimated the possibility of exports of Romanian gas, you know well that Romania is a country that has a serious yield. However, I most hope in the future, apart from all the sources mentioned, that we can also use our own production as a source in the Black Sea. Then, combining more than two, more than three sources of gas, there are enough volumes to be able to satisfy not only the security of the gas market, not only to guarantee the role of Bulgaria as a country that transits gas, which is not only a matter of economic benefits, it is also a matter of strategic priorities. Of course, a separate issue is in a similar scenario what happens to the so-called Trans-Balkan gas pipeline with a capacity of more than 23 to 25 billion. Cube. Mm, but that's the subject of a separate conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u108	The line, Mr. Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u109	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Donchev! In practice, I accept what you say, only that the three sources, which at least Bulgaria should have, do not believe that the gas pipeline with Greece, the interconnector, provides the necessary quantities. It's $1 billion. Cube. m and is in terms of energy security. As for the deep Black Sea, in at least seven years, we will be able to eventually find these quantities if we find these amounts of 80 to 100 billion. Cube. м, only then can we talk about some quantities that Bulgaria can use.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u110	And at what cost?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u111	Yeah, depends on the price. Zhabljanov replicated me well. Yeah. Because you say at least two pipes, I ask the Bulgarian government to be more active. We need these two tubes at full capacity and 63 billion cubic feet. Two pipes are 32 meters. Absolutely enough to satisfy both the needs of Bulgaria and to transit to neighbouring countries. Let the Bulgarian government not wait, be a little more active and have a firm position. That's why I asked you that question. Don't let the gas pipeline go around us again, cross a southern gas corridor, and leave us out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u112	A hole, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u113	Dear Mr. Tsochev, I am in a hurry to assure you that every attempt to bypass Bulgaria from the gas routes has every reason to make me suspicious not only from an economic but also from a geopolitical point of view. One important clarification: the capacity of the interconnector with Greece is between 3 and 5 with an option to increase it to 10. Bulgaria is by no means passive. On the contrary, for several months a joint working group has been working between representatives of the Bulgarian government and the European Commission, which is a precedent................................ the European Commission makes a mixed working group with a Member State that clears absolutely all parameters and technical as routes. That's what we're done with. And economical. The most complex law related to the gas distribution centre initiative, as part of these scenarios, the subject of all analyses was precisely the hypothesis one, two or two plus Russian pipes in the Black Sea. Pretty soon, we'll be done with the final analysis. Perhaps a month later than we planned, perhaps at the beginning of July, we will have the opportunity to provide them and present them to all interested. This includes all major players in the gas sector, and that is not going to rule out Gazprom.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u114	There is a question following on behalf of MPs not participating in parliamentary groups. Colleagues, is there a request for such a question? No. We return to the Parliamentary Group of GERB. Here you go, Mr. Georg Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Donchev! Mrs. Kuneva, my question is to you and it concerns the field of education and, in particular, higher education. It will be short, but on the other hand, I consider it important and meaningful. Please state and provide information as to whether the Ministry of Education and Science intends to introduce a figure to carry out communication between the office and the authorities of student representation? If that's the intention, please explain it. I think it is important how do we communicate with student councils, with the National Representation of student councils, and how and where do we place these bodies for student representation in our work and as an institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u116	For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. People's Representative, I thought it would be good if I gave you an example of what was going on in the Ministry after the dialogue with students on the so-called "eurostipendions" in the priority professional directions. This explains to a large extent what a desire and with what intensity we are having this dialogue. If I have to answer you very briefly, whether it is institutionalized our work with students is not exactly. When we made the meeting with them, we were except me, except Mr. Donchev, who was also invited to the meeting, my two Deputy Ministers, who are in the operational program and in science and higher education, directors, the Secretary General, that is, the entire management of the Ministry. I've identified a person in my political cabinet a counselor to keep in touch and to be a kind of contact point. The problems are very different. One part of the problems, for example, are related to student dorms and not only for students, but also for young researchers. One of the serious problems I often answer your questions on this occasion. Another type of issues are the protected specialties, the priority specialties, the discussion of the Law on Higher Education. My desire is to deepen this dialogue and make rules on which the dialogue is taking place. So far this in other areas of Bulgaria, structuring such dialogue with certain rules, as, say, the European Commission has, when discussing a specific document, there is no such thing so far. I have the ambition to introduce it through our Ministry. We're all available. I personally engage in any conversation with students, I consider it very important. The very fact that we have found a good understanding and a good solution to this issue, which is related to scholarships and we have a clear vision of how this can affect in budgetary terms at all to the scholarships for success that we have understood perfectly both one side and the other side, what the possibilities and limitations are, of course, say that dialogue is going. If you have any idea how to institutionalize it, I see no other way but through my political office. I'd love to hear what you think. If you have such an offer, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u118	Thank you for your answer, Mrs. Kuneva. A line? Mr. Georgiev, you have a wish and an opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Kuneva, I rather did not mean to be institutionalized the dialogue, but whether a figure is actually identified to carry out the communication, because this reminds me a bit of a passing term in the Ministry of Education and Science when there was an order concerning communication between the MPs and the Ministry to pass through the parliamentary secretary only. In this sense, I think a figure that should be burdened with communication that it is not rather correct, in terms of the bodies of student representation and their representatives themselves, should have the opportunity to choose the persons for communication in the institutions themselves. Both you and we, as MPs and members of the Commission, can have the confidence that the questions they raise will be able to reach their addressees, which can take appropriate measures. As for what you yourself mentioned as a problem with European scholarships, which arose some time ago, we then asked with the MP Milena Damyanova a question regarding the way in which this policy will be structured and European scholarships will be bound with the so-called priority specialties. By the way, I think that I have not yet received an answer to this question, and this is something that excites me. Once again, returning to the authorities of student representation, I think that we should in every way be in complete communication with them, providing them with sufficient confidence that we as institutions are involved with their problems. I think that's what all the students want. In no way do I mean and do not aim to closely institutionalise dialogue. Surely this working group, which was held, was held and a meeting with Mr. Donchev, this was a good example of how the Bulgarian government, Bulgarian institutions respond to the wishes of students, students in general, and I think it is a practice that we should certainly deepen and expand. This also raises my question as to whether you plan to have a figure that communicates or this communication will once again be left sufficiently wide and accessible to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u120	Thanks for the line. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity for a duvet.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u121	Yes, now I understand you better, and I was surprised at that proposal. I think in the same way that it should be as open as possible. I just want to tell you about the so-called European stipends and this is actually the way for the European Commission to help us through the operational programme by giving funds where there is a definite, rapid and urgent need to provide money for reforms, i.e. for those majors that are in real trouble. If I were to offer the Law now, I would never have called it priority, I would have called it a problem. To tell you how things are going, we not only saw each other at a political level, which was a signal of unity by the government, but, of course, with the Chairman of the Education Committee, but also since then, in my ministry, working groups with students are held regularly. Tomorrow is the last such task force. After this final meeting with the National Representation of Student Councils we will come up with a common conclusion, so the issue is not underestimated for a second. I personally think and share with you that for me the Bulgarian budget to allocate funds for students with good results is really an excellent national policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Kuneva. Next, an opportunity to ask a question from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria. Here you are, Mr. Bojinov, you have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to Mrs Kuneva on the complicated negotiations between Europe and the United States on the transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement, Bulgaria's position in this changed situation. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, I stand on this stand before you with anxiety and self-esteem. A warning because it is about negotiations whose results can have severe, irreparable and far-reaching consequences for generations of Bulgarians. Self-confidence because the Bulgarian Socialist Party is the first and only political party with a clear political position and a serious expert opinion on this issue. Two days ago, on May 30th, information leaked about documents exchanged between the European Commission and the United States. We read that food safety does not concern us, food safety is not a criterion to bet on. This is the response of the United States Government to one of the European Union's requirements for the quality of milk that is to come, when signing the dangerous trade agreement, to take over from American farms to the markets in Bulgaria and everywhere in Europe. Secondly, we read that the requirements of the European Union to designate GMOs on food labels firmly embedded in the Bulgarian legislation are defined as a technical obstacle to trade, which cynical pragmatism. Thirdly, as regards the need for buffer zones to prevent GMOs contamination of soils firmly embedded in Bulgarian legislation, we read that this is unnecessary burden.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u124	Please ask the specific question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u125	And one last thing. We are told that European standards for pesticides in food are unreasonablely low. The European Commission is pressed by these complex differences in negotiations, and perhaps, Madam Minister, will turn to governments to reaffirm their starting positions. What will be the opinion of our government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Bozhinov. You have put an end to this long sentence. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u127	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bojinov, let me give you the facts and you will, of course, be able to draw your conclusions. In mid-July, we are facing the 14th round of negotiations between the European Union and the United States, which is more than a month from now. At the end of September, the informal Council is expected to make an overall assessment of the negotiating situation. This is about the month of September 2016. This week, Trade Commission spokesman Daniel Rosario said that President Juncker will ask the next European Union in June for EU leaders to reaffirm the European Commission's mandate for TIP negotiations. This move aims to check the political support of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union and to reach a decisive phase in the negotiations between the European Union and the United States on the Agreement to make it clear to us what we are doing. The position of the Member States and the European Commission is that an ambitious and balanced agreement is being pursued on the three pillars of market access, regulatory cooperation and rules, as well as consumer, labour and environmental standards that are not subject to negotiations, as is said in our position. The agreement must be in line with the 21st century with high standards aimed at creating growth and jobs, it must improve access to the US market for goods, services and public procurement and European access to their market. It is clear from the European Union that the rapid conclusion of negotiations cannot mean a result at all costs. That goes for us, too. There is still much work left in the negotiations, a number of important issues remain open. A massive leak of information has recently occurred only in the Chitalishte capitals of the Member States and in the public domain through the Greenpeace. This fact is worrying and damaging to the negotiations. After the leak, French President Holland commented on TIP and the serious difficulties in the negotiation process. He said France would not accept TIP at this stage. Bulgaria. Bulgaria supports the conclusion of the Transatlantic Partnership and Trade Agreement as one of the tools for developing the country's economy. We are an equal participant in the negotiations, and we will not be subject to clauses that we are not aware of and disagree with. It is important that TIP negotiations are conducted on the principle of open dialogue and that it is known that neither Bulgaria nor the European Union will compromise their high standards of safety, health, environmental protection and consumer protection. In May 2015 to Working Group 25 "Trade and Foreign Affairs Policy" in the Council on European Affairs, which I chair, was established Working Group "Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership between the EU and the United States." The agreement has a separate chapter for small and medium-sized enterprises. The TIP should reduce the administrative burden on small businesses, release a resource for innovation. These are the things we want and we believe that if they happen, we have reason to support it. The agreement must also improve economic opportunities, open new jobs. This is actually the orientation that tells us whether it's okay for us or not worth concentrating more on this possibility. There must be opportunities to expand the trade of small and medium-sized enterprises on both sides, public-private partnership, technology transfer and funding. I suppose in a month's time, including the Prime Minister, he will be able to tell you what the attitude is when the European Council is dealing with the TIP issue. It also concludes the term of office of the American President. So I guess there's going to be a lot of intense conversations on this side. These are the facts that I can now share with you responsibly.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. The line, Mr. Bojinov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you indeed. Specific lines of what you have said, you are assessing the leaking of information worryingly. Unlike you, I will say that the first leak of information made a worthy Frenchman a MEP, the director of the publishing house of the Yumani Dimansch, published the book The Demon against the peoples, in which he published a faximile of the ban to be published, and he wrote: "If this affects the life, fate and future of my country, of my people, I will break this secret. " So I am rather in his position. Secondly, you stressed that negotiators have a mandate from the European Union. When we Socialists proposed in this Parliament that we have a discussion on issues that will be dealt with in the European Parliament and that you have a mandate on behalf of Parliament, the majority refused. And one last thing. Madam Minister, everything you have said is logically justified in order to have a position that stands for our interest. It is worrying that the United States has already reached an agreement with Canada and if we ratify the agreement with Canada, all that you fear and intend to prevent it will be opened to the Bulgarian market by ratifying the Agreement between the United States and Canada. Therefore, there can be no political infantility on this issue and there must be very serious work. But I thank you for what you said about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u130	And thank you, dear Mr. Bojinov. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u131	Mr. Bozhinov, of course, we will continue and monitor what is happening to these so sensitive environmental issues, to the protection of the consumer. However, let me just tell you that this is not my qualification but Francois Hollande's qualification. He does not think that this is the way to comment on the TIP, because another will give another argument. You should, if it's a book, if it's really well structured resistance even against TIP, it's within the dialogue. Another thing I would like to say to you is that the European Union has no way of stopping the trade agreements of the United States, either with Canada or with Mexico or with Japan, and they will happen. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u132	Please do not engage in dialogue with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u133	We cannot tell the United States that they cannot conclude these trade agreements. So I suggest we really look at the whole picture. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Bojinov.]] They are a fact and this gives another prospect of globalisation. Whether Europe will try to make it personal, I think it is better for us to try to make this agreement that we conclude with the United States be in the interests of Europeans than to fear and prevent such trade agreements between the United States and other nations. Let us concentrate on the quality of the trade agreement with the European Union. I think that's a good assignment.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u134	Thank you, dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the next parliamentary group of the DPS. Perhaps there will be no question, for obvious reasons. From the parliamentary group of the Reformation Bloc, you have the opportunity to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers, fellow Members! My question is to Mrs. Bachvarova. It is related to your statement in Yambol, in which you reported that domestic crime is a big problem for Bulgaria and I fully agree with that your opinion. Domestic crime is indeed a serious problem, especially for small settlements where people sometimes remain unsupervised and without protection in the face of public authorities. And since I was in Vratsa District last week, I received multiple reports of low-level crimes, petty thefts for the people there. However, as you well know, however small a crime as value is, for an ordinary person it is a big problem. I have received reports that in the municipality of Hajredin in the smallest settlements there are no law enforcement officers to cover and ensure the order and compliance of the law so that there are no petty thefts, no violations, no beatings. Although the village of Galice became quite famous with the local mayor, who in an interesting way manages the municipality, to put it mildly, there are many other places that create a bad image of Bulgaria. My question to you is because you said that you are providing 113 measures to combat domestic crime, if you can tell us some of them, to introduce us to the ideas of the Ministry of Interior, so that we also know where you are going and to inform our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Reply from Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u137	Dear Mr. Delchev! There's nothing to add to the findings you've made on domestic crime. This is a topic that excites all of us and is a top priority in our work. Everyone is aware of the opportunities available to the Ministry of Interior to ensure a stronger presence in the settlements, especially in the small ones. They're limited, unfortunately for us. That is why we are trying, in parallel, to make up for the shortage, to announce competitions, to train employees, to change the approach to working on domestic crime. That's why we have meetings. In Yambol, she was the first. Six more of these meetings are coming up. The approach we have taken is a reflection of this approach. The first reflection in this plan with 113 measures that we propose is to activate the work of all institutions at local level so that we can achieve a stronger effect than if the Ministry of Interior remains only in these efforts. There are many social problems, there are many measures that the local authorities need to take. It turns out half of the municipalities have not activated their local security and public order committees. We want, throughout this process, to include local authorities, representatives of the territorial structures of individual offices, to activate the public, also the regional governors, non-governmental organisations where they can happen, schools, social services. Everyone fulfill their duties within the limits of their powers, all of us working together in this direction. So we are holding these meetings and we are discussing how regional and municipal security plans are to be made, with several measures by the end of the year, which will start to produce results and involve all of us, for example, mayors to review public order regulations, noise levels, schools to be activated in surveillance and organizational activity, to see where the lighting of the settlements can be improved, to also activate the activity of building video surveillance systems. There are extremely good examples that we present and present at these meetings to integrate all the information we have through video surveillance so that we minimize the need for our employees to be present wherever they need to be. This is the approach we want to change to engage all institutions. That's why we're activating them. The Ministry of Interior does not give up its own responsibilities. The Ministry of Interior also takes on another additional commitment to work with all other institutions. As far as our responsibilities are concerned, working with the criminal contingent is extremely important. We put the focus there to take measures that go beyond what we have done so far. Another approach also to the perpetrators, because about 60% of the perpetrators of these crimes are actually relapses. The system is done in this way, the rehabilitation mechanisms after the punishment are ineffective. The Justice Department and I are discussing how to improve...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u138	I'm gonna have to ask you to focus on graduation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u139	... social functions to enable them to return to the labour market. It is also a series of measures to step up the work of our employees with the perpetrators of crime so that all of us in a very broad front can start working in this direction. This is the approach and essence of the new that we propose as a policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Delchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u141	Thanks for the answer. Without any doubt, the commitment to order and security in the territory of the local communities is a commitment not only to the Ministry of Interior and I wish successful work in coordination, in convincing the other institutions to actively engage and signal when they notice a problem already in its germ. After all, this is also prevention. However, I believe that the presence of officers of the Ministry of Interior in the settlements is also part of this prevention. The demonstration of power by the state, without demonstrating real power, without reaching detention, has its preventative effect on all those who would like to commit a crime. Therefore, I ask you: do not underestimate the presence of employees of the Ministry of Interior, especially in small towns where there are none. In this regard, something like an addition to the first question. Do you plan through the Ministry of Interior Act and through the future budget in the medium term to increase presence in small settlements in order to deal with domestic crime?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Delchev. Deputy Prime Minister Bachvarova, please come in for the finale.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u143	Yes, we are constantly discussing opportunities to ensure such presence and to ensure that Members are given the necessary numbers. But it's a very difficult process. From the announcement of a competition for new employees to their full training, one year passes. Therefore, the measures that we propose for optimization and the measures that are in the proposal for the new Law give us the opportunity to act in this direction as well. As for the budget, let's get to the new budget. Indeed, in this direction we work extremely hard and again at all levels: both the Academy of the Ministry of Interior and other higher education institutions that train in related specialties. We have proposals to give them the opportunity to train their students and police powers so that in the next one or two years we can already compensate for this deficit, which currently exists, has been accumulated over the last many years.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Next is the possibility of a question from the Patriotic Front of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u145	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and Mr. Deputy Prime Ministers! My question is to Mr. Donchev. As is known, both for the Patriotic Front and for the government one of the main issues is diversification. This is one of the main objectives with a view to increasing energy prices and a favourable impact on businesses and consumers. In this regard, the last month was rich in events. I would like Mr. Donchev to share some of the new aspects in this area. For us, of course, the most important moment is the recorded in the Programme of the Government Our desire Bulgaria to become a producer, to start its own production of gas. We know that a platform has been brought in solemnly. My question is, did they start drilling? What's the schedule? What's the prognosis? When can we expect results in this direction? And on the second aspect of the gas diversification, the construction of the gas infrastructure, there was another issue here about the South Stream. I would extend the topic: the construction of a gas pub is related to additional incoming flows and especially to additional political support and consensus by our neighbours Bulgaria to be such a type of energy centre. Is there such foreign policy efforts of the government? Do we have the support of our neighbours, at all, of the Southeast European countries? Do we have, at the same time, the administrative and legislative readiness for this role?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u146	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, you have the opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, the parliamentary procedure is too short as time to do a thorough analysis of the entire gas sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u148	Just three minutes. you have the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u149	That suggests your question. So I'm going to try to be as punctual and specific as possible. First of all, in terms of starting drilling. Yeah, we have a start, as far as the specifics of the drilling in question are that we're passing two kilometers of water until it gets to the bottom. At the moment, the probe is at least 2,000 meters deep, if memory serves, which means it's actually started drilling for both gas and oil. When can we expect results? We have some plans, but ultimately, as far as geology and what's under the ground are concerned, human plans don't always come first. You are right that a key factor for both energy diversification and security of supply are the new connections that are planned and built with our neighbours. In a nutshell here, I'm going to mark each of the connections right now. The link with Greece IGB is most advanced. We have a final investment decision. You know well that the first non-binding phase of the market test went extremely well. Capacity was claimed even higher than the volume of the relationship. Technical readiness is at a very high level. What needs to be done in order to start construction is the alienation procedures that are ready in about a third. Second, no priority, is the interconnector with Romania. He's all ready as a landline. The link must be built under the Danube River. There's an artist selected. I sincerely hope that this interconnector will be fully ready by the end of the year, including the link under the Danube River. With regard to the interconnector with Serbia, there is already a high level of technical readiness there, as far as this has been going on over the past few years. There is funding provided under one of the operational programmes. In an earlier phase is the interconnector with Turkey, as far as the preparatory procedures are currently underway there. Do we have conversations with our neighbors? Given our ambition for Bulgaria to preserve and expand its role as a key participant in the gas market and to implement the gas distribution centre project, yes, not only with all neighbours, but this includes all Member States, or at least those with whom we have a direct link to their role as suppliers and buyers, as well as with the big players in the gas sector. Rather informally, but at this stage we are using the fact that the project is being prepared together with the European Commission, which gives top guarantees that what is proposed as a scenario, both technically and legally, will be absolutely sustainable in time. Therefore, the danger of someone saying tomorrow that there are some comments regarding the project is small, because everything has been developed together with the Commission. In this sense, the purely reputational project is extremely good. We make preliminary drillings with absolutely all of them with countries and key players in the gas sector.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u150	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a line. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Donchev, I take the floor to thank you for the information provided and to express our parliamentary group's support for the efforts for Bulgaria's gas independence. Indeed, we should not mourn forces in this direction, because what has always been a defect and hindered our economic development is the dependence on specific suppliers and therefore the opportunity for these suppliers to offer prices that are not good for the Bulgarian economy. This is something that needs to be overcome. In this spirit, I express my satisfaction with the answer. You have our support.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. There is a possibility for a question from the BDZ Parliamentary Group. No question. From the Parliamentary Group of the Party "Attack"? Mr. Alexandrov is heading for the stands. You have the opportunity to formulate your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Kuneva, my question is for you. My colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria are already asking about TTTI. You said that the solution there would be and is in the interest of the people, because that is what democracy is about. My question is directed at other negotiations that await us. We even voted on this issue today. By the end of June, the beginning of July are sanctions against Russia. Since Europe does not have a single opinion at the moment, or at least it seems that there is no single opinion on the issue, I am interested to ask what our interest will be, and what interest will we pursue? I have tried to find a study that shows that 65% of society does not support sanctions. Please state which interest will be taken into account by the public or political? What will be the Bulgarian position in these negotiations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u154	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, you have an opportunity to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u155	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Alexandrov, perhaps if you ask the question of a wide range of Bulgarian citizens if they support the territory, they will answer you. Keep in mind this case for which sanctions have been imposed against Russia. This is not the European Union's wish. We would like to live, trade, have a good environment, because we have many issues that we need to cooperate on and deal with. I will not go any further than to mention, say, terrorist attacks, the fight against the Islamic State and at all the stabilisation in this part of the world, refugees. On the issue of sanctions, I think the Prime Minister made it quite clear in one of his answers. Supporting sanctions is not a self-sustaining wish or at the initiative of the Bulgarian country. We see, and we see it very clearly, that if we do not support democratic values, then the whole structure of the European Union turns, remains without foundation, falls apart. The desire is not to make self-inflicted sanctions, but to be able to tell one of the European partners, which is Russia in this case, that there is a limit that cannot be crossed. When she crosses the line, give her an extremely clear signal that this is completely unacceptable for all sides. Therefore, when we talk about sanctions, you see that although one or the other countries suffer, including economic losses, the whole European Union is united. Bulgaria is part of this Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Kuneva. Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kuneva, I do not think that the whole European Union is united or that is contrary to the statement of the Foreign Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, contrary to the statement of the Prime Minister of Hungary. I also support democracy, democratic values, but cannot, with the support of democracy and the deprivation of democracy, from the democratic values of some to advertise that we are protecting others. Similarly, we had to sit down and respect certain criteria, but these criteria must be met on both sides. We cannot announce that the great enemy is Russia. If I'm not mistaken, during World War II, Hitler did the same thing to Satanized Russia. We're doing exactly the same thing right now. Understand that this will come back to us in a wonderful moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u158	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mrs. Kuneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u159	Mr. Alexandrov, neither the German Chancellor, nor the Hungarian Prime Minister, nor the Bulgarian satanized anyone. As for what Germany's opinion was when the decision on sanctions was adopted, Germany voted for the sanctions. That is, it is a matter of giving, emphasizing, a signal of what we believe and what we hold in order not to deepen the conflict. It is better to give this signal and to be clear what we are doing now than in subsequent years to get to a more serious rift. I stress that there is no country that wants sanctions for the sanctions themselves. I very much hope that this will be resolved, these misunderstandings will be resolved politically, diplomatically, internally, for relations between Russia and the European Union, and this will remain history. I hope that happens.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question has the opportunity to ask a colleague from the ABB Parliamentary Group. There aren't any. Last but not least, non-members of parliamentary groups? There are also no willing ones. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Deputy Prime Minister, with this the parliamentary control of art. 104 of the Rules have been completed. Thank you for your participation and I wish you a successful day forward. My fellow Members, before we proceed with the Amending and Supplementing Act to the Agricultural Aid Act, I see that there is a desire for a declaration on behalf of the Reformation Block Parliamentary Group. Here you go, Mr. Stanimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! We are witnessing another provocation to the memory and unity of the Bulgarian people. The Bulgarian Socialist Party, headed by its newly elected leader, celebrates the life and work of the last communist dictator in his hometown. Bulgarian parliamentarians had no shame to pose before the satrap monument, which twice wished Bulgaria to become part of the Soviet Union. A monument, which, by the way, enjoys the homage, far from just the nostalgic right hand, which causes confusion. At the same time on the island of Persin near Belene, the surviving concentration campers and their families celebrated the memory of the tens of thousands of brutally massacred, tortured, imprisoned and repressed Bulgarians by the same dictatorial regime. BSP bowed before Zhivkov on the anniversary of the day when the same dictator expelled tens of thousands of Bulgarian Turks from their homeland. I don't think this demonstration coincides with the two creepy anniversaries. Despite the serious divisions in Bulgarian politics for some time, we felt that Bulgaria's belonging to the European political and value union had a basic agreement among political parties and in society. The other day the heiress of the Bulgarian Communist Party took off her European mask and showed us her most retrograde face. European values are completely incompatible with the respect for a dictator that led to the death and repression of thousands of people. Dear colleagues, Bulgaria will only move forward stronger if it reads the humbly and reasonably traumatic pages of the past. The unity of the nation must be the guiding principle of every honest politician. The demonstration of the dictator at a time when the victims of his regime recall the repression they are subjected to is a cynical provocation that separates the Bulgarian people and embarrasses European Bulgaria. Such behavior serves those external and internal forces that aim to make our country weak and divided. We call on all our colleagues on the left and on the right to realise the importance of what is happening and together not to allow the dark shadows of the past to emerge again. The reformist bloc will defend the European election of the Bulgarian people and will continue to work for the unity of the nation under the rule of law.. Law, fair and equal for all citizens everywhere in the world. We will not allow us to replace the historical truth and desecrate the memory of the victims. [[Applause from RB and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Stanimirov. Honourable Members, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Mr. Hristov, please proceed to the stand with the report. I ask the Quaestors, in the meantime, to invite fellow Members to this House more persistently, because there will be a vote coming up soon. Page 20 supposed by the National Representative Maria Belova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with the CID of the Agricultural Aid Act. Proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Farmers who have received fuel vouchers under the existing scheme of State aid until 31 December 2014 may use them for the purchase of gas oil under art. 32, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses until 30 September 2016 Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with Article 8. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... (1) The persons obliged under the Law on excises and tax warehouses who have accepted fuel vouchers under the existing scheme of State aid until 31 December 2014 shall have the right to deduct from the excise duty payable under the excise declaration under art. 87, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses the nominal value of vouchers. Vouchers for fuel with faulty integrity and damaged protection shall not be accepted. (2) The collected vouchers shall be transmitted to the competent customs office at the place of the taxable person no later than 5 days before the lodging of the excise declaration under para. 1. When handing over vouchers, a receiving transmission protocol shall be drawn up according to a model laid down by the Rules for Implementation of the Law on excises and Tax Warehouses (promise, SG No. ...). The minutes shall not certify the authenticity of the transmitted fuel vouchers. In the excise declaration under para. 1 shall be entered in the record number. (3) The Customs Office shall verify the authenticity of the vouchers received and store them in order and manner defined by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (4) When a genuine or forged vouchers are established, the excise duty deducted from the excise declaration under para. 1 of the taxable persons on these vouchers shall be subject to import, together with the legal interest, from the date on which the excise duty was to be paid in accordance with art. 44 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (5) To a farmer who uses not as intended: 1. fuel vouchers; 2. Gas oil purchased with fuel vouchers is imposed a fine from 2000 to 5000 BGN, respectively a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. (6) In the cases under para. 5 The farmer shall be obliged to restore the nominal value of the vouchers received, together with the legal interest from the date of receipt. (7) The acts of infringement under para. 5 shall be composed of officials from the respective Regional Directorate of the State Fund for Agriculture who are responsible for carrying out the checks. Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Director of the relevant Regional Directorate of the State Fund..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (8) For the purposes of this paragraph, a State security may be used as a non-cash payment for the amount of the excise duty referred to therein only by a farmer registered under this law and by persons supplying/sales of liquid fuels from commercial establishments, including persons supplying/sales of liquid fuels within the meaning of the Law on excises and tax warehouses.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u164	Thank you. Are there statements on the proposed two paragraphs? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to create § 22 and an amendment by the Commission to § 8 by importer, which becomes § 23. We are voting, honourable Members, the proposed two paragraphs. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: for 78, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u165	Proposal from the National Representative Maria Belova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 24: .................................................................................. Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall bring the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency into line with it. The editorial proposal, Mr. President, is at the beginning of the sentence:
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u166	A proposal for § 24 "The entry into force" is replaced by "the promulgation" that is to say, within a period of time since the promulgation of this Law is correct, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u167	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u168	Got it. Thank you. You have reported the proposal for § 24 to the Commission. Statements? I won't. Dear colleagues, first of all, we will vote on the editorial proposal made by Mr. Hristov, which I read earlier. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously. We will now announce the Commission's proposal for the creation of § 24 together with the adopted editorial amendment. Please vote. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u169	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Maria Belova, made in accordance with Article 9. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The law shall enter into force from the date of receipt of the final number of the State aid scheme in the European Commission's register of State aid, with the exception of § 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 18, § 20. 1 and 2, § 21, t. 1, § 22 and 23, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u170	Thank you. Statements?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u171	We have an editorial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u172	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u173	In § 25, the words "s 22 and 23' are replaced by "s 22, 23 and 24'.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u174	Got it. Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting, honourable Members, the editorial proposal made by Mr. Rumen Hristov. Please vote. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted, with which the bill at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u175	Just the editorial proposal, not the whole text.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u176	Sorry, yeah, thanks for your help. We forgot to actually vote on the paragraph, along with the editorial amendment. We are voting, honourable Members, the version of § 9, which becomes § 25, together with the editorial amendment made.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u177	They voted 83 MPs: 82 against 1, no abstentions. The proposal has been adopted, and with this, the second vote and the Bill are finally adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u178	Can I thank my colleagues?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u179	Of course you can.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u180	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to thank you for your constructive attitude towards the bill, which has been waiting for a long time for farmers, and especially to thank all the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Food, whether by the ruling majority or by the opposition, who unanimously supported the bill. Thank you, and we will tell that to our farmers, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u181	Honourable Members, according to our Programme, the first vote on the Law Supplement to the Law on Radio and Television is provided as the first item for Thursday. The next item is the draft decisions on the adoption of investment costs for defence, but since the Minister of Defence is unable to attend at the moment, this will remain for tomorrow. That is why I am making a procedural proposal now to move to the next point: First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. Importers: Manol Genov and a group of Members of the National Assembly We'll have until 2:00 to hear the committee reports and start with the debate. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to move to point seven of our weekly programme. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u182	Madam President, honourable Members, I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a draft law supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 654-01-56, submitted by Manol Trifonov Genov and a group of MPs on 13 April 2016, and a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 602-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016. At its regular meeting held on 18 May 2016, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by the National Representative Manol Genov and a group of MPs, and the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy: Lyuben Petrov "Deputy Minister, Valentin Gruev " Director of the Directorate of Industrial Relations and Government of the State Participation " and Lachezar Borisov " Head of the Department in the same Directorate; and by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency: Emil Karanikov " Executive Director. The bill to supplement the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control submitted by Manol Genov and a group of MPs has been drawn up in relation to the inclusion in the list. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control of NITI The bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted by the Council of Ministers, was drawn up in connection with the inclusion of VMZ 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control and at the same time the exclusion of 35a, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The importers of both bills noted that the companies mentioned by them were in good financial condition, marked a significant increase in sales revenues, repaid the accumulated debts over the years, worked at full capacity with growth in labour pay. In addition, VМЗ "EAD," Sopot and "Kintex".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this sense, the privatisation of these companies at this stage is not appropriate and it is appropriate to include them in the list 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In their written opinions, support for the bills was expressed by the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy. After presenting and discussing the bills, a vote was held which ended with the following results: - under the Law on Supplement to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 654-01-56, submitted by Manol Trifonov Genov and a group of MPs on 13 April 2016:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 602-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the first vote, a bill supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 654-01-56, submitted by Manol Trifonov Genov and a group of MPs on 13 April 2016, and a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 602-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. On behalf of the importers Mr. Genov, we're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, the military industrial complex is an important element of the country's national security and the state's presence in it determines its role and its presence on strategic markets. The majority shares of the state always give in the management of these companies a strong element of government influence and can influence through the presence of external markets of individual domestic and international conflicts around the world. During the current and last year, the arms industry reports extremely good results. The producers of R&D and NIT, record stable growths both in speed and in profit generated. There is only a delay in the state-owned trading company, but contracts for the sale of special production for about 130 million are due to be concluded by the end of the year. Euros. We from the Parliamentary Group of BSP left Bulgaria are extremely satisfied that the government in the face of the Council of Ministers remained extremely consistent in its reactions as soon as our parliamentary group strongly opposed the inclusion of these two companies in the mid-term budget forecast of the Privatisation Agency, which had foreseen the sale of these two enterprises. We were wondering how this could happen and how such two large chickens of Bulgarian weapons industry, which lay golden eggs for the state, with options and opportunities to change the budget, could be sold. I can give you some specific examples. Impressive are the results of the Vazov machine-building plants. As of March, the company grew more than 300 percent, rose to a profit of less than 40 million. BGN, made sales, paid up overdue debts over 20 million. BGN, is owed to the municipalities in whose territory it carries out its activities. The same applies on a smaller scale and smaller sizes for NITI. It is a development enterprise that invests in new industries and has managed in recent months and years to raise its turnover and profits. We also mentioned that it is one of the strategic commercial enterprises not only in our country, but in Europe and in the world. I therefore call on you to support our proposal and I hope that you will express this through your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-06-01.u185	Thank you, Mr. Genov. The debate is open. Are there any willing MPs who wish to participate in it? There aren't any. We're closing the debate. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 69 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a day and an hour, namely 2 June, tomorrow, 9.00 for voting at first reading of the two laws that we have discussed so far. Before closing the regular plenary session today, tomorrow's plenary session is starting at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
