ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. I offer to your attention the National Assembly's Work Programme for 21 September 2016: 1. The first vote of the Bill on the provision of assistance for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2016. Adopted in the first vote on 3 June 2016. 3. Draft Law on the ratification of the Level of Service Agreement between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Tobacco Products and Food Safety and Xavier Pratts Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, presented by the Director-General of the Institute for Tobacco and Tobacco Products Maria Kusheva, of the other part, for the storage of data on tobacco products, new tobacco products and herbal products for smoking and the Agreement on the level of service between the European Commission, submitted by the Director-General of the Directorate-General for Tobacco and Food Safety and Xavier Prats Monnet, of the one part, and the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Minister of Economy Bojidar Lukarski of the other part, for the storage of data on electronic cigarettes and refill containers. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 12 August 2016. 4. Draft Law on the ratification of the Bilateral Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Secretariat of the European Union initiative for participation in the Joint Programme. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016. Please vote on the draft programme. They voted 158 MPs: 133, against 3, abstention 22. Program accepted. Laws and draft decisions entered into force from 14 September 2016 to 20 September 2016. On 15 September 2016, a Bill for the ratification of the bet contract on the balance sheet between the Republic of Bulgaria, represented by the Minister of Economy, and the European Investment Fund for the implementation of the Small and Medium Enterprises Initiative under the Operational Programme The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 16 September 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Plant Protection Act was adopted. Importers are Rumen Yonchev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food. The Committee on the Environment and Waters and the Committee on Legal Affairs are accompanying. On 19 September 2016, a Bill for the interpretation of art. 3, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3b and so on. 3a of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. Importers are Petar Slavov, Martin Dimitrov, Metodi Andreev. The leading committee is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The Committee on Legal Affairs is attached. On 19 September 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Oil and Oil Stocks Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Energy is the lead. The Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is accompanying. On 20 September 2016, a Bill for granting aid for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company was introduced. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. The Energy Commission is accompanying. On 20 September 2016, a Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act was adopted. The bill is to be distributed. Also on September 20, 2016, a Draft Law for Supplement to the Law on Political Parties was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Velizar Enchev. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 15 December 2016, by letter of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly received a Report on the cash implementation of the Consolidated fiscal programme for the half-year of 2016, adopted by Decision No 776 of the Council of Ministers of 2016. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was presented to the Committee on Budget and Finance. The same is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. On 16 September 2016, a mid-term report from the Commission on the completion of programmes co-financed by European Union funds and the countries of the European Economic Area during the 2007 programming period was received by the President of the European Affairs and Control of the European Funds. According to the letter, the report is in electronic form and is located on the website of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The letter is sent to the e-mail of all Members of the National Assembly, and those who wish can get acquainted with the Report on paper in the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB the floor has the Vice-President, the People's Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! GERB's parliamentary group defines as unacceptable to a politician and insulting to the national dignity of the Bulgarians the words of Pyotr Tolstoy, expressed on national air, I quote that: We demand that the Russian television journalist and MP from the party "Unified Russia" publicly apologize for his provocative behaviour. We perceive as incompatible with the good diplomatic tone the arrogant behaviour of every foreign citizen, regardless of his origin and public rank, who abuses the name and honor of the Bulgarian people. Bulgaria is a member state of the European Union. We are part of a united Europe and we have the self-esteem of an equal and equal state with its own sovereignty that no one can and should not violate. Tolstoy's opinion harms bilateral relations between Bulgaria and Russia. We believe that the party "United Russia" is not behind his words and we call for it to distinguish itself from them immediately. GERB's parliamentary group categorically states that Bulgaria is one of the oldest European countries and the only one that has not changed its name since its founding today. We have managed to preserve our roots, values and traditions and preserve them for generations. We will not allow anyone to question the territorial integrity of our country, to put us into a complex of inferiority. As a member of the European Union, we acknowledge the principles of justice and solidarity and strongly condemn any attempt to instill hatred and split. Bulgaria cannot and will not be a hostage of foreign interests! Piotr Tolstoy's publicly claimed statement: the half of the coast we have already bought is frankly false and manipulative and this is easily verifiable. In this regard, we call on the newly elected Russian MP to refrain from scandalous geopolitical statements that undermine the historical feelings of Bulgarian citizens and oppose russophiles against russophobics. We have witnessed the unfortunate defamation of the European flag of Koprinka Dam and we ask: Does BSP approve of the series of events opposing the Bulgarians and dividing them into lovers of Russia and supporters of Europe's policy? Can we tie the disparaging statement of the Russian MP to the disparaging attitude demonstrated by the leaders of the Bulgarian Left to the violation of the flags of the European Union and NATO? It is strange that the candidate for President Rumen Radev is silent again. Wasn't the general raised by the BSP much more sensitive in terms of the hierpolising, and didn't he call him the second Neui? [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] Will BSP leave Bulgaria at least once put the country's national interest ahead of its ambitions and ties? Will Cornelia Ninova and her supporters continue to fight against the European Union and NATO, instilling hatred among the Bulgarians grateful to Russia? The citizens of any sovereign state have the right to decide whether to join the European Union or NATO. For Bulgaria this is a civilisational choice, driven by a majority. It is valid to this day, and any threat against the democratic vote of the Bulgarians must be given decisive resistance. The Bulgarian State maintains balanced and equal relations with the Russian Federation. The Bulgarian people are grateful to both the Russians and Ukrainians and Belarusians and Finnish and Romanian warriors who gave their lives for our release from Ottoman slavery. But this does not imply territorial, economic or geopolitical dependence, and populism is a deliberate political practice, especially in the face of an unprecedented, migratory crisis. Finally, I will allow myself to conclude with one thought by the famous Count Tolstoy "a relative of the current Russian MP, which reads: "In art, the most important thing is the sense of measure. The same goes for politics. Be humble, Mr. Piotr Tolstoy! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Block, the word has the popular representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Radio, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u5	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u6	Three days ago Russian MP Piotr Tolstoy made an ugly, arrogant and challenging statement concerning the dignity and national security of the Republic of Bulgaria! To ask: whether he will lead a benevolent policy towards Bulgaria, he answered verbatim: "Yes, we will just buy it all. Half of the coast has already been bought, fellow Members on the left. Such a statement constitutes direct interference in our country's internal affairs, undermines our national sovereignty, undermines our dignity as a nation, as a member of the European and Euro-Atlantic community! Ten years ago, when Bulgaria became a member of the European Union, Moscow's then ambassador to Brussels said just as arrogantly that Bulgaria would be the Trojan horse of Russia in the European Union. During this period, Russian politicians and statesmen often allowed themselves verbal attacks on our country regarding its choice to be an independent, European oriented and democratic state. The words of MP Tolstoy are not merely political provocation, political madness of the imprecise phrase or expression of desperate political illiteracy! When one of the creepy witches of the Great Russian propaganda behaves as an imperial official in terms of an independent and proud people and country, we can be absolutely certain that it is a political tactic adopted by the highest position in the Russian state machine, in the context of the global hybrid war waged by Moscow against democracy and freedom worldwide. The attempt to turn Bulgaria into a captured state of the state of Great Russian state interests is not from yesterday. Once Rakovski warned us that, I quote, the Russian government, which so far has been polishing our well-natured Bulgarians with all sorts of cunning and false promises, is now discovering its veil and clearly showing its murderous and vicious policy towards them. It is determined and labored with all the cunning and dishonest means to destroy and devastate our dear homeland Bulgaria! Are these words, fellow Members of the Bulgarian National Assembly, not true today, after we have heard MP Tolstoy's statement that the Russians want to buy our land?! However, we know that the words of our renaissance will not be moved by those who, just a few days ago, gathered enthusiastically at Koprinka Dam around Kazanlak to wave the Russian flag with an imperial halo instead of the Bulgarian one, and to trample the flag of the European Union! These mime patriots will not be heard by their political mentors, whose primitive and atavistic political instincts are reduced to trying to drag homeland into Moscow's geopolitical orbit as they whine with hollow phrases, such as a great interest, a great helmet, fellow Members from the left, a brotherly friendship, a Slavic solidarity! We in the Reformation Block understand well the words of Zahari Stoyanov that "Russia, apart from scheming, used indecently as a cannon and the Orthodox faith, and used in the pious and simple Bulgarians who viewed it as a savior. This simple faith seems to maintain the Russian myth on purpose in the Bulgarian national spirit. With all due respect to the liberation actions of Russian, Ukrainian, Romanian and Finnish troops, we realize that very often and purposefully with the Bulgarian people's natural gratitude is and is abused and now by the hawks of pro-Russian and pro-Simperian politics! We, the MPs of the Parliamentary Group of the Reformation Bloc, insist on the Bulgarian institutions in the face of the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to request the official position of the Kremlin and the Russian Embassy in Sofia on the speech of the said cargo Tolstoy! We demand that the Bulgarian institutions and services investigate and inform the Bulgarian society and state about all questionable business projects in the field of energy, real estate, fuels, banking and investment, communications in the acquisition of Bulgarian national assets supported by Bulgarian MPs, government officials, public and media figures, and employees of the Bulgarian special services! Ladies and gentlemen, I quote: As a people we can be proud that all of our national actors and patriots Rakovski, Karavelov, Levski, Botev, Angel Kanchev, Panayot Volov, Benkovski and others were against official Russia. They didn't appeal to her because they knew her whip hurt more. Those are again the words of the already mentioned Zahari Stoyanov. We remember that the national poet Hristo Botev bequeathed to us that the Bulgarian settlements had used even more radical means to wipe away from the face of the earth. That is why we, the MPs of the Reformation bloc, are not asking for an apology from the Russian responsible institutions. We know that Eurasian arrogance, even in the field of diplomacy, is cynical and selfish. We qualify as an attack against the Bulgarian national security, democratic order and our national dignity another Russian arrogant MP statement and insist that the Bulgarian institutions take responsibility, investigate and alert the society in due time for every attempt to betray or sell the Bulgarian national interest! Thank you. [[Replications between the MPs Tsveta Karayancheva and Atanas Merdjanov. Applause by RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria Mrs. Ninova, Chairman of the group. [[GERB's groaning.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We do not think that the tribune of the Bulgarian National Assembly is the place where we should discuss the speech of the Russian MP, so called, not serious about this serious place, but you challenged us with the lies you told! The Bulgarian Socialist Party and the presidential candidate General Rumen Radev was the first to comment on this statement publicly and you can see it anywhere! The fact that you haven't read it is your job. Or reading it and lying is now a manipulation that we're not just gonna leave unanswered. What you are doing today, however, is another proof why the world looks at Bulgaria in this way, why from the East someone wants to buy, and from the West someone wants to make us a buffer zone for refugees. Because the government in Bulgaria are people with no character, no position on national interests and when and as they are exported where the superiors are, they bow there. You speak here on behalf of the people. Dear rulers, did you ask the people when you raised your hand for sanctions against Russia?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Did you ask the farmers how much they lost?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] On whose behalf did you do it?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u9	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u10	Is there a decision of the Bulgarian Parliament for this? Why don't you ask in Brussels how their farmers were compensated for the losses and ours didn't? Why didn't you show character to win for Bulgaria this compensation, for our national interest, for our economy?! Your Agriculture Minister says we've lost 500 million of this. Where were you then, patriots and patriots, to protect the Bulgarian and the native?! Did you ask the people on whose behalf you spoke when your prime minister said it was about the visa for Turkish citizens to Europe, without Turkey meeting the conditions for this? By whose will did you do it to the parliament, the people? Did you ask the people when you came out bragging that you were carrying over 100 million pounds of mail pigeon? Did you ask him if Europe would agree to give us this money to build new refugee camps so that we could become a buffer zone here so that refugees wouldn't go to Europe? That's why you asked the people? You will speak to me here on behalf of patriotism and the protection of national interest! Where's the national interest here?! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] As long as you rule, this is how the world will treat us. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u11	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u12	From all this will lose only Bulgaria, the Bulgarian people and really national interest. That is why you must sweep away and change for the sake of national interest and for our people. [[Applause from BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. On behalf of the political party's parliamentary group Ataka has the word of the people representative Stanislav Stanilov. You have the floor, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u14	I am the Vice-President of the National Movement of Russia, but because it is not a political party, I come out on behalf of the Party of Ataka to say that yesterday our Volen Siderov officially condemned the statement of the Russian MP to the media, which is reprehensible. In every parliament, there are exotics who blab whatever they want. He knows very well that he cannot buy anything, that there is no such policy as to buy in another country and so on. By the way, that's exactly the kind of policy there is, and I'm coming out to remind you of it. 25 years ago, a little over 25 years ago, Turkish President Turgut Ozal said at a rally in Istanbul: "We Bulgaria will not conquer it, we will buy it." Make the effort to calculate... [[Replys from the National Representative Nastimir Ananiev.]] Don't yell at me! Shut up! I don't have a word with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u15	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u16	Here your representative has told so many lies that I now, if I start on history, what Benkovski, Zahari Stoyanov quoted, will see what will happen. Hold on a second! [[(Laughter and lines ……]] Someone make the effort to check the number of properties in Bulgaria bought by a Turkish country, what is their characteristic and how much they were bought by Russian 3 to 1. Turkish investments in property in Bulgaria are mainly agricultural land, mostly in Thrace, the so-called "Rumelia" by them. The Russians are in apartments. Do you notice the difference? However, no one is talking about that 25 years they are coming and buying Bulgaria. Some Russian MP, Tolstoy, he said something about coming here to buy land. We don't have a common frontier with them, and that's safe. How we sell to Israelis, to Americans, to Englishmen come here and buy. What? But the Russians, what will a Cossack regiment come here and take us to Siberia? This is bullshit! By quoting Bulgarian Revival activists, I will not challenge you here point by point, honourable gentlemen of the Reformation Bloc, I will tell you this: read this Zahari Stoyanov, but not as the Devil's Gospel. When he described Benkovski's escape from the April Uprising, his attempt to pass the mountain through the Trojan Balkan to escape to Romania, he was with him. It describes how Benkowski faced the burning Sremska Valley burned by the Turks and said: "My mission has been accomplished. I stabbed my rusty knife in the heart of Ottoman Turkey. And by speaking so much against Russia's bulgarophobic policy, you forget that all of Southeast Europe has gained independence and statehood with Russian money and Russian blood. You can't deny that! And whatever you're doing here, you can lead... I can get you such quotes against what you said, but why make an effort? The whole Bulgarian people know it. You can't make russophobes from the Bulgarians. That's it! That's not gonna happen. That's not gonna happen! And now that you agree to discuss it with this Russian MP, why don't you take a look at our statesmen, including the president's words against Russia, and has the Russian Parliament gone to discuss it and deal with such things? Once again, politics has all kinds of exotics. And it doesn't have any value. Two or three days of media, politicians yelling, yelling, yelling, big deal! Finally, let me tell you about the flags. Let me remind you before I tell you about the flags of the russian council yesterday, the European flag was thrown out of the Hungarian Parliament with a parliament decision. If you remember! [[Heckling]] He may recover because Mr. Borisov often hugs Mr. Orbán and I hope he catches something. Hungary is a colorful country. [[Applause by "Attacka."]] I'm every year at the Russophile Council, and every year this flag ritual does. There are four or five such exotics who walk, first step on the European flag, this year they did not make it a mistake, these only stepped on it, then pulled out the NATO flag and started cutting it off. You know what I remember? When I was a student, there was a Vietnam War. Then the American boys in the squares lit their callers and lit them on fire, pulled out the American flag and lit them on fire. The Bulgarian flag has not been lit, and those people there who have re-stripped this flag, we have never trampled such things, such flags, and they were neither from the Atakas, nor from the BSP, although you want to make it a political action. They always do this and have the right to freely express their will. Neither in laws nor in a Constitution do they say that we should not set the flag of the European Union on fire, for example. I can talk to you a lot more, but I would like to ask you to come to class and deal with serious issues, as is next, not waste an hour of parliamentary time and do shit. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause by "Attack" and BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u17	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Any other affidavits? I won't. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: It's a first-in-command... Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u18	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! We of the BSP Parliamentary Group are surprised that, as we proceed to this topic provided for in item 1 of the agenda, the examination of our Draft Decision, which was tabled on 13 July of this year, is not foreseen for a draft decision repealing the 2012 National Assembly Decision on the suspension of the project. Except that according to art. 78 The examination of the two topics is required in this case two, but on the same matter at the same time, the actions arising from the two acts to be dealt with first, the Bill and, secondly, if you consider and allow the draft decision are logically linked: what payment will there be on the reactors, if no further provision is made for the construction of the nuclear power plant, of Belene? In fact, this equipment, which will be paid and bought by Bulgaria, will obviously not be stored in the corridors of the Ministry of Energy. We therefore also have logically linked drafts of documents which should be addressed simultaneously in the National Assembly. Therefore, I ask you to provide for the acceptance of the examination of the draft decision submitted by the parliamentary group at the same time as the draft law on the loan to NEK.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Naydenov. I can't find a link between the two bills. [[BSP LB.]] The specific bill is on the basis of a decision of the Geneva Arbitration Court, while the draft decision has no bearing on it. You could have made the relevant proposal in the appropriate order, agreed with the Presidential Council and considered the issue of the Bill that you quoted. [[Noise and lines from BS LB.]] This is within the framework of the explanation of the procedure. Let's move on to point one... [[(Relations from BSP LB:]] The way you're leading it? Which one do you want? All of them. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] All right, one at a time, one at a time! Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We offer something quite understandable. It is about budget changes and payment of over 1 billion. lv. to the people who have sent us here, which is why I propose and invite in plenary the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov to explain why the projects have been suspended, why we should pay 1 billion. 200 million... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u21	He didn't start this project!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u22	Dear colleagues, the time of political locumi has stopped. The foreign policy servant's bill is coming up. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u23	Pay for it when you've started it!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u24	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u25	The one who has stopped the projects 2012 should come and explain why the Bulgarians now want us to pay a billion and two hundred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u26	Thank you. We will contact Prime Minister Borisov and the Finance Minister. Who's the next procedure? Here you are.. the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, I propose that the debates and the vote on this point be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Radio and on the Bulgarian National Television. It is hardly every day that the Bulgarian Parliament makes decisions for billions, let the Bulgarian voters have the opportunity to follow the behavior and positions of their electors. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Is there a reverse opinion? There's no reverse opinion. We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Zhelyo Boychev. They voted 144 MPs: 53, against 35, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. We invite Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and Finance Minister if possible to take part in today's meeting. Moving on to the point: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR AID FOR THE SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE ELECTRICAL ELECTRICAL COMPANY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will introduce us to the President of the Commission the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please allow Mr. Petar Iliev, Executive Director of NEK, and Mr. Petyo Ivanov, Executive Director of BEH.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u30	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova. Vote 127 MPs: 115 against 9, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the gentlemen Ivanov and Iliev to the hall, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u31	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law on the provision of assistance for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. At a meeting held on 20 September 2016, together with the Committee on Energy, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Bill for granting assistance to the National Electricity Company, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: From the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, Diana Dragneva Director of the Department of State Legal Consultancy and Nikolay Pavlov State Expert. From the Ministry of Energy: Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Rositsa Nedyalkova Head of Political Office, and Miroslava Hristova Director of Legal and Normal Activities, Administrative Service and Human Resources Directorate; From the National Electricity Company: Petar Iliev, Executive Director; From the Bulgarian Energy Holding: Mr. Petyo Ivanov Executive Director. The bill was presented by Minister Petkova, who pointed out that it aims to secure NEC's funds for payment of the sums awarded in an arbitration case in relation to the NPP project. According to the NEK EAD Act, it does not pay interest for the aid used and does not provide collateral. In order to comply with the rules on State aid, the Bill provides for the financial compensation to be granted to NEK EAD after a positive decision by the European Commission. The chronology is as follows: - In 2004, the Council of Ministers decided to build a nuclear power plant "Belene" and in 2005 defined the project as an object of national importance. - On 29 November 2006, an agreement was signed between NEK and Atomstroyexport. The parties undertake to enter into a future contract for engineering, supply and construction of NPP. The duration of the contract has been extended several times, but the contract has not been signed. - On 5 November 2008, Appendix 5 to the Agreement of 29 November 2006 was signed for the procurement and production of equipment with a long production cycle for blocks 1 and 2 amounting to EUR 673 932 836. - An advance payment was made on 28 November 2008 under Appendix No 5 of 5 November 2008 amounting to EUR 89 409 321. - On 29 March 2012, the Council of Ministers adopted a decision repealing the decision on the designation of the energy facility "Nuclear power plant" at the site "Belene" as an object of national importance. - By decision of 29 March 2012, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria supported the actions of the Council of Ministers to end the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. - Meanwhile, an arbitrage has been brought before the International Arbitration Court at the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris between Atomstroyexport and NEK in connection with the construction of the NPP. - On 14 June 2016, the International Court of Arbitration at the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris ruled on the Arbitration Case, which, inter alia, condemns the NEC to pay to the In accordance with art. 28, para. 6 of the Arbitration Rules of the International Arbitration Court The decision is final and binding for the parties and should be implemented immediately. The Swiss law also states that the Arbitration Decision shall be final as from the date of its receipt, namely 15 June 2016. By Arbitration Decision, the International Arbitration Court ordered NEC to pay to the Atomstroyexport (Atomstroyexport) amounts as follows: principal on 2 May 2015 of EUR 402 903 952; construction costs on 2 May 2015 of EUR 3 052 066; costs of EUR 10 663 489; interest until 1 May 2015 of EUR 137 300 449; interest for the period from 2 May 2015 to 19 September 2016 of EUR 75 037 639 or total on 19 September 2016 the amount owed by NEC under the Arbitration Decision shall be EUR 628 957 596. The interest due from 20 September 2016 to 31 December 2016 will amount to EUR 17 272 536 or if NEK pays at the end of the year its debt to At present, NEC does not have financial resources to pay the amounts awarded under the Arbitration Decision. It is essential for NEK to suspend interest rates for late payments resulting from the Arbitration Decision. Unfortunately, NEC is currently not able to make even a partial payment under the Decision. Between 2013 and 2016 BEH issued two bonds on international capital markets worth 1 million. Fifty thousand. EUR for the purpose of providing liquidity for NEK and reducing the inter-company debt in the sector In line with the practice of debt capital markets, BEH has undertaken commitments to comply with certain levels of financial coefficients, namely the operational result to financial costs should be no less than 4. In view of the above, it can be concluded that the possibilities of BEH to attract additional external financing are currently exhausted. The possible approach to secure NEK's financial resources for the payment of the amounts due to the Atomstroyexport is the provision of compensation financial assistance under art. 109, para. 4 t. 2 of the Public Finance Act through the budget of the Ministry of Energy and NEC should not pay interest on the aid used and should not provide collateral. After the discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for granting assistance to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Energy Commission will introduce you to her Chairman Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, Mrs. Minister! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill for granting aid for the payment of debts to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. At its extraordinary meeting, held together with the Budget and Finance Committee on 20 September 2016, the Energy Commission discussed a bill for granting assistance to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova Minister, Mr. Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister, Ms. Rositsa Nedyalkova Head of the Political Cabinet, Mrs. Miroslava Hristova Director of the Department of Legal and Regulatory Activities, Administrative Service and Human Resources On the part of the importer, the bill was presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, expressing the reasons for the need for its adoption. In 2004, the Council of Ministers decided, in principle, to build a nuclear power plant. On 29 November 2006, NEK signed an agreement with the Atomstroyexport AD (ACE) with which the parties committed to conclude a future contract for engineering, supply and construction of the NPP. The duration of the contract has been extended several times, but the contract has not been signed. On 5 November 2008, although there was no IDS Treaty between NEC and ASE, Appendix 5 to the Agreement of 29 November 2006 on the procurement and production of long-term production equipment for blocks 1 and 2 amounting to EUR 673 932 836 was signed. In this addition, the main equipment for the plant is included. An advance payment was made on 28 November 2008 under Appendix No 5 of 5 November 2008 amounting to EUR 89 409 321. On 29 March 2012, the Council of Ministers adopted Decision No 250/29.03.2012 which repealed Decision No 259 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 on the designation of the energy facility of the nuclear power plant at the site of Belene. By its decision of 29 March 2012, the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria supported the actions of the Council of Ministers to end the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. Meanwhile, before the International Arbitration Court (MAC) at the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris (MTC) an arbitration case ICC Case 18086/GZ/MHM between ACE and NEK has been initiated in connection with the construction of the NEC NPP. On 14 June 2016, the MAC in the ITC issued a decision on the Arbitration Case (the Arbitration Decision) which, inter alia, condemns NEC to pay the amounts due for the equipment produced, pursuant to Appendix No 5 of 5 November 2008, against which NEC will acquire ownership of the equipment produced. By the Arbitration Decision, MAC condemns NEC to pay the ACE amount as follows: principal on 2 May 2015 of EUR 402 903 952; construction costs on 2 May 2015 of EUR 3 052 066; costs of EUR 10 663 489; interest until 1 May 2015 of EUR 137 300 449, interest for the period from 2 May 2015 to 19 September 2016 of EUR 75 037 639 or total on 19 September 2016 of the NEC amount due under the arbitration decision shall be EUR 628 957 596. At the meeting held on 12 July 2016 in Moscow by the ACE, it was strongly claimed that they would switch to a procedure for the enforcement of the Arbitration Decision, the sale of equipment with a long production cycle (ODC) or the sale of their debt if NEC did not make a payment under the Decision, whether in part. NEK's refusal to pay the amount under the Arbitration Decision will have the following negative consequences: - continuation of interest rates to burden the NEC financially (118 million) lv. on an annual basis); - the possibility for ACE to proceed to secure NEK's assets/accounts or even to attempt to initiate insolvency proceedings against NEK. This in turn would lead to endangering the security of the energy system in Bulgaria; - the insolvency proceedings of NEK will lead to an early requirement of BEH's liabilities to bondholders of 1.05 billion. EUR as well as other NEK/BEC lenders; - The ACE to sell the equipment subject to the arbitration decision in order to minimize losses. This poses a risk of a possible transaction at a price below the fair value of the assets in question and, at the same time, NEC will continue to owe the difference to the amounts awarded to ACE; - the possibility for ACE to continue with its actions on the notified investment dispute against Bulgaria. At present, NEC does not have financial resources to pay the amounts awarded under the Arbitration Decision. Between 2013 and 2016 BEH issued two bond issues on international capital markets at a total value of 1,050 million. EUR (2,054 million) (BGN) in order to ensure liquidity for NEK and to reduce the inter-company debt in the sector BEH's opportunities for attracting additional external funding are currently exhausted. The possible approach to providing funds to NEC for the payment of the amounts due to the ACE is the provision of compensation financial assistance under art. 109, para. 4 t. 2 of the Public Finance Act through the budget of the Ministry of Energy and NEC should not pay interest on the aid used and should not provide collateral. In order to comply with State aid rules, it is explicitly regulated that the aid can only be granted after a positive decision by the European Commission. During the discussions, the MPs from the various parliamentary groups expressed support for the proposed Draft with the exception of the MP Ms. Magdalena Tasheva. The question was raised about the vision and development of nuclear energy, including the future of equipment and the site of Belene. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee, with 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. The opinion of the importer will introduce you to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, you are all well aware of the motives of this bill. They were clearly mentioned in the report of the Budget Commission and in the report of the Energy Commission. I'm not going to repeat those motives. I'll say this. We all know how important a step must be taken today with, hopefully, the adoption of this Bill, because by accepting it, we will practically try to untie one of the most serious nodes in the energy sector in Bulgaria, one of the most serious problems facing the National Electricity Company. We all know that Atomstroyexport is making seven demands to the National Electricity Company. Of these seven claims, the International Arbitration rejected four as unfounded, related to the claim for price escalation, for lost benefits, for demobilization costs, but respected three of these claims relating to the equipment ordered in 2008. With today's Bill, we must implement the International Arbitration Decision and pay for the equipment ordered in 2008. If we do not pay this obligation under International Arbitration, the risks to the country's energy system are extremely high. These are the main motives and those who led the Ministry of Energy and the Council of Ministers as an importer of this bill. By paying the obligation of the National Electricity Company under this International Arbitration, we will minimize several major risks. First of all, you will stop the accumulation of interest, which amount to 324 thousand. lv. Every day, or every three days, the National Electric Company's account is piling up $1 million. lv. interest expenses. We are risking at some point these interest rates to acquire a threatening amount which will become a very serious risk to the financial stability of NEC, respectively, the entire energy sector. There is a risk that if we do not comply with the decision of the International Arbitration, the Atomstroyexport. This will be an extremely critical situation for Bulgarian energy. Therefore, in order to prevent all these risks, today we need to approach nationally responsible. My request is that you support this bill because it will enable us to eliminate all these risks. There is another risk associated with the fact that the Atomstroyexport could at any time sell all or part of the equipment that would bring NEK into a situation where he would have to owe funds but would not be able to acquire any asset against it. In order to minimize all these risks, I have to rely very much on you today to support this bill and to allow NEK to pay this obligation. As you know, this aid will be repaid, i.e. by acquiring this equipment, we will be looking for the opportunity in some way to obtain those assets that will be acquired to bring an added value that will enable us to recover these funds into the budget, as they have been granted free of charge. It's a retribution of financial aid. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u36	Thank you, dear Minister. Before opening the debates, honourable Members, allow me to call on you, as I did at the Conference of Presidents, to concentrate on the subject of the bill. I know the temptation is great, but please, as much as you can concentrate on the specific bill so you don't put me in an awkward position. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The presentation of the importer almost moved us to what and how terrible it would have happened if we did not pay. Calling for consensus has also moved us to a large extent. But I ask: following yesterday's reports from the Council of Ministers' meeting, was the Prime Minister's very statement there consensual? Can there be a consensus when the one who has caused one damage to the country in particular large amounts claims to be the savior of this country? Because there can be no consensus until the moment you are guilty of what happened, for we will be paying around 646 million. Euros are still trying to escape their responsibility! Because Arbitration's decision wasn't created by the launch of the project, as they're trying to convince us. The arbitration decision was dictated by its unprofessional suspension in 2012 and it was clearly written in the decision. Because when this project was launched, there was an economic justification, there was a need for this project, and today it is because the base capacities in electricity are not much-knowing how much and not much-knows how many options on it. But then, for unknown reasons, after a long time shaking in his opinion, the prime minister decided suddenly to stop this project. And then they were present in this room explaining how there would be no problems, how everything would be okay, how we would spank the Russians. Well, we spanked them and paid for the pleasure with 646 million. Euros. This is the result of this wise policy! Then we were told there would be no financial consequences, there would be no arbitration, there would be nothing. Well, today we've seen how wonderful it is! How can there be consensus when, even in the motives with which this bill is accompanied, it is written what costs have been made over the years, but very shy, I would say with a slight inconvenience have been missed those amounts that have been paid between 2009 and 2012?!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u38	And when did they arise?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u39	This brings me to mind, this is our suggestion "as GERB we haven't paid anything, now we are paying your Masraf." No, we're paying your masraf for your suspension.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u40	Oh, Mother!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u41	Because even assuming that the principal has to be paid, who will be responsible for 212 million interest accrued for the period from 2009 to today? Because this year, when the arbitration decision became clear, on June 16, we warned you that it was time to make cardinal decisions. On 13 July, we tabled a decision on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria, with which we wanted the National Assembly to repeal its decision on the suspension of the NPP.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u42	It hasn't started.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u43	It's been three months. Another 30 million on top of it has piled up in the state. Who will be responsible for these 30 million, which you and your sleeping problems have brought to the Bulgarian people?! And now the prime minister will cry that the poorest state has paid two and a half billion..... to the East and West! This reminds me of one more thing to ask you: why is it written in this Bill that we will notify the European Commission of whether it is State aid or not, but when we paid 1 billion to US power plants, we did not ask the European Commission whether it was State aid or not?! Aren't they the same problems?! The same way we take money from the state and pay. What's the difference? You want to pay the principal. You'll pay well, but you don't have a strategy. You have no vision. You have no idea how this process will develop once you buy the reactors. Even a moment ago, the honourable minister said: "Somehow we will try to get some value. Colleagues, for three months now you have been trying to get this overrated value, developing a violent activity in selling these reactors. I expected to see that there the Bulgarian government offers on its website a sale of nuclear equipment. You didn't bring him here! And yesterday in the Commission, I told you that energy is not a tycoon to go inside, buy or not to buy something, or try to buy it and then sell it in retail. Energy requires a long-term strategy. Such recent decisions from 2012 can only lead to what we have today. Because even if we pay now, as soon as we pay and become our property, there is a guarantee going on, a guarantee of equipment that hasn't been installed. What do we do in this case? The price drops if we want to sell it. Therefore, the only way in which this problem can be solved is to continue the project. Only in this case can we look for these reactors to give us some added value, as the Minister said. Otherwise, it is what we see today with this Bill you, by GERB, have valued your guilt for the years. It's exactly 646 million. Euros. Finally, I would like to say that we will make proposals between first and second readings on the bill proposed to us in relation to art. 1, para. 1 and para. 2 on the arrangements for the provision of funds and collateral. Yesterday I said in the Commission, today I will repeat it again: we demand between first and second reading the Council of Ministers to take a decision to repeal its own Decision No 250 of 29 March 2013 and the National Assembly to adopt a decision to repeal its own Decision on the suspension of the construction of the nuclear power plant Only in this way will you prove that you have a sincere desire for a strategic solution to this issue, not a solution to a piece of money, and we do not know what we do next. Only on this condition, I tell you, the Bulgarian Socialist Party left Bulgaria will support the bill at second reading. That's what I wanted to tell you. From now on, you can practice as much as you want, if this project was appropriate, if it wasn't, if there was, if there wasn't money. Just to remind you that the cost of the project is determined by the one who builds it and sells it. It was designated by the Russian side at 6 billion. 300 million. Euros. There was readiness from Russia this Project to be credited by Russian banks with very low rates. Everything else is from the Evil One and attempts to justify it. And since someone here may be calling us silently again to confess our guilt, we have no fault to sit quietly. The colleagues of GERB in 2012 quietly adopted the decision to stop the nuclear power plant "Belene". [[Reply from MP Petar Slavov.]] Read the solution! Then they didn't take the floor at all. Only the Prime Minister was defending that decision. Thank you for your attention. I urge you to be sincere in your actions and to be more responsible because your irresponsibility, once again, is worth 646 billion so far. Euros of Bulgaria. I don't know how much more it'll cost if you keep ruling like this. I hope this department is over soon.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? It just sounds strange to me that you call a decision of the National Assembly a silent announcement. Next statement. "The People's Representative Petar Slavov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! This is a Law which I and many colleagues, I suppose, will support with a shy heart and with the clear awareness that the Bulgarian people once again have to pay foreign debts. I even think, Mrs. Minister, and, honourable Members, whether it is wrong to change the name of the Law and it should be said:...................................................................... [[(Radio.) Replies from BSP LB.)]] In fact, this is what we are doing. We are paying debts that BSP has once again accumulated. [[Replying and shouting from BSP LB.]] I hear them bouncing to the left again, they're always, they're not guilty of anything. They weren't responsible in 1990 for the hungry Luca winter and the parties. They weren't responsible in 1996 for the bankrupt banks. We now understand that they are also not guilty of the fact that during their management the Triple Coalition, two people, CEOs of NEK, in the eyes of their Energy Minister, the economy, as was then the exact name, have signed the agreement in question and ordered equipment for a nuclear plant without having signed a contract for such a plant. Dear colleagues, this sounds like a person to order a window for his future apartment, not having bought his apartment yet. Moreover, even before there was a preliminary contract for this apartment before the apartment in question was built, even before there was a building permit for this apartment. I mean, it's not clear if it's gonna exist at all. But he still ordered his windowsill maybe because his firm was close or for some other missionary reasons, and he did. And here's what we're getting at the Court of Arbitration, the National Electric Company has to pay. Madam Minister, there are several questions for you as well, seeing the proposed bill. First of all, we don't see numbers in it. I can understand that given the necessary period of negotiations, the accumulation of interest and so on, perhaps the final amount cannot be stated at the moment. However, I would like to draw your attention to two very important things in my opinion. First of all, you point out that it is very likely that the second reactor is not fully produced, not ready. According to documents, I understand, and listening to your media speeches, he was ready at 90%. In other words: why does the National Electricity Company, the Bulgarian people pay interest for fun and penalties when the other party has failed to fulfil its obligation to produce 100% of the two reactors? It makes sense, as they have not fulfilled their obligation and have not produced the two reactors 100%, and we should not pay penalties for fun because there is no fun. They're in fun too. You know, in law, it's a basic principle that doesn't owe penalties on one side or the other. Please bear this in mind and let the question be raised. Perhaps action should also be taken before the Court of Arbitration in respect of interest, which we have heard is about 300,000 a day or about 70 million. lv. interest by the end of the year, which will accumulate. That's a huge sum. I suggest that we don't pass it lightly, but really put that question and look for ways to get rid of it. Let's go. The very decision of Arbitration, given that a bill has been introduced, which practically incorporates such a huge obligation of the Bulgarian taxpayer, it is appropriate to see this decision of the Court of Arbitration. If you have any considerations for trade secrets and other similar things, at least to the MPs to be provided in the secret section of the National Assembly or otherwise appropriate. My personal belief is that it should be made public, since the Bulgarian people will pay this colossal amount. By the way, a lot of analysts made a simple bill, colleagues, this amount of what it would go for, those over a billion and 200 million, which will now practically have to pay the Bulgarian taxpayer. One of the accounts shows that with this money you could give a Christmas and Easter supplement to our fathers and mothers retired in the order of 30 BGN. One of the favorite themes on the left that they constantly put us on. Now we will have to pay this money for something we obviously do not need and is signed behind the back of the Bulgarian people. I'm not sure that during the three coalitions someone asked him if he wanted to spend colossal amounts on the project "Belene" which turned out to be a gourmet and it turns out that it already cost us more than 3 billion. lv. with the option, if we do what on the left they were talking about - it will escalate over ten billion leva, with absolutely vague goals, lack of economic justification and so on. In this regard, by the way, the economic analysis, which is very much quoted on the left, to point out that it is pointed out in 2010 - 2015 to have a severe deficit and a shortage of electricity in Bulgaria. Not at all! You see what this is about. I think at the very least, you could release the experts from the left and not use them, or at least not speculate and mislead public opinion. Madam Minister, I very much hope that NEK will return this money as quickly as possible to the state budget, as stated in the agreement, and this will not affect the price of electricity. If you can from this tribune make a guarantee that this will not affect the price of electricity in the direction of escalation, because indeed the amount is great and the concerns of people are also great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The People's Representative Georgi Bojinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u47	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear colleague Slavov, your entire speech was built on an absolutely false, politically tendentious and vicious thesis and therefore has no relative value in this important debate. You say we pay someone's past debts. What's the problem that brought you here? That we started building a second nuclear power plant or that, for political reasons and external interference, it couldn't be completed? The real reason is in the inconsistent Bulgarian policy, crossed, interrupted and prevented by foreign geostrategic, economic and political interests and the weakness of Bulgarian governments to conduct a consistent Bulgarian policy. If that wasn't the case, we'd have a second nuclear power plant today. Things would be different around us with the construction of the Turkish power plants and the others around us and the trade in electricity. A person should have the courage to admit the truth, not lightly transfer it somewhere and not be responsible for his speeches. The reason is that we started, and as a result of a discrepancy, we did not complete this grand object. Bulgaria would be different and unlike those times when we started building the first nuclear power plant, we built it, and today we are still proud of it, we can be ashamed of those who, under the external influence, corrupted this spectacular Bulgarian project. That is the truth, and you are on the side of those who have failed and listened to foreign interests, and that is why today you are building your speeches on this absolutely false thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u48	Your two minutes are up, dear Mr. Bozhinoff. A line? Here you are, Mr. Stanislav Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Slavov, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Slavov, I would like to address you with a request, since you are a lawyer, in my opinion you should have addressed: firstly, how this agreement came about; the ways in which public procurement laws were violated; on what basis this agreement was signed; this agreement what it led to; and then to make your statement. Otherwise, we're going to take charges from the left that we have a contract and that things are okay, and we just haven't fulfilled them, we haven't fulfilled the commitments made by the state. No, there were no such commitments, Mr. Slavov, and these things are visible from the transcripts of the Commission which investigated the case, from the minutes of the Agency for State Financial Inspection, which are public. You should have said these things and then developed your thesis to make it clear to the Bulgarian society that there is no treaty. Since there is no contract, there can be no agreements and no additional agreements, which are currently trying to explain to us colleagues on the left that we are obliged to carry out. Thank you. [[BSP LB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For the third line. "The People's Representative Krasimir Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u51	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Slavov, I want to make a slight correction to what you have set as an example. In my opinion, you gave an inaccurate example that they ordered the windowsill. If they had ordered the plant's window, we'd have swallowed it. This is about high-tech equipment. [[BSP LB.]] It's high-tech equipment! This equipment, if I repeat Mr. Slavov's example, this is to begin the excavation of a building and order all these things that are technology TVs, refrigerators, equipment that will be thrown into the trash in 10 years. It's like ordering and getting a black-and-white TV. I'm asking: why? Why, what made you do that? [[BSP LB.]] For me, the answer is: commission. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] This money to be transferred, as you weep, on the back of the people, so that some people can get their commission for what they did years ago. [[Applause from GERB and RB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u52	Mr. Slavov, you have the floor for the coat. Once again, I would like to recall the subject of the Bill, which relates to the judgment of the Arbitration Court of the International Chamber of Commerce in Paris.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u53	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll start with my colleague Velchev's line. Yes, I accept your line. Perhaps the example was not quite accurate, but the aim was to illustrate how without a contract, as it became clear without a signed contract, a high-tech equipment was ordered over the head then, as it is claimed, although I personally doubt that it is going through the head of the then Minister of Energy and at the expense of the Bulgarian people. Yes, I can agree with that line of yours, colleague Velchev. You turn your attention very precisely to the issue of commissions, even I would add whether it will turn out that someone will now have commissions to return, and that is why this tension is. [[BSP LB.]] Further on, Mr. Ivanov also paid attention. I think I said it, but let's do it again, and there really isn't a signed contract. I guess here my colleague Dobrev will then make a spacious statement about the chronology of events and what is the rule, but I still can't understand how without having a contract without an engineering commitment to build this plant, order this extremely expensive high-tech equipment? Whose head is this done behind the back of parliament, government? Two people had signed it. Where is the responsibility of these two people? Aren't they at least held accountable, clearly and certainly who signed it, and not to mention that in any case this can't happen through the penalty and through the principal's head, as you all well know?! At the end of the line, Mr. Bojinov, I understand your nostalgia. In your speeches quite often you make a slight nostalgic statement to the last era of communism, but understand, in the modern world obviously the economic estimates show it We have nothing to do with this current and to make such an expensive investment for the second atomic. We live in the 21st century, look, cars are moving on electricity, people are tightening to Mars to fly. [[BSP LB.]] We're talking about energy efficiency.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u54	Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u55	We are talking about a house being able to meet its own electricity needs by putting photovoltaic installations on the roof, including exporting this electricity, and you want to build a second nuclear power plant. What do you need this second nuclear power plant for, and what are you gonna do with it? Let us develop our headquarters in Kozloduy, let us think there, if necessary, of additional reactors, but not of making senseless and insane investments of 10 billion. euros on account, as we see, of the Bulgarian people.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Slavov. The word for speech has the popular representative Kiril Tsochev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u57	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! I would like to ask the House to land and to go beyond the subject of political speaking. The topic is very convenient for an election campaign. I'm the oldest energy guy in this room. My day of work began on September 1, 1971 and 45 years I worked in the field of energy. I have participated in the construction of the first six blocks of the NPP, and at the moment I cannot tolerate such hooligans, which are heading from the left to the right and from the right to the left. Seven governments slept through the nuclear power plant, Belene. Decision No 259 of 2005 on the construction of a nuclear power plant "Belene" is a priority for Bulgaria. The subsequent Decision No 260, which also defines the power of the supplier 2000 megawatt. Fourteen agreements, eight ministers from seven governments, three of them in the Chamber, have transferred the ball, and have signed 14 agreements to what was done in the Atomstroyexport procedure. Decision of the Council of Ministers of 29 March 2012, which repealed Decisions No 259 and 260 and submitted to the National Assembly the annulment of these two decisions on 6 April 2012. In this decision of the National Assembly, it is stated that: "Supports the actions of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to end the construction of a nuclear plant on the site of Belene. 2. For rational use of the constructed material and production base of the NPP site "Belene" recommends that the government examine technical and economic conditions for the construction in the coming years of a steam plant on the NPP site "Belene" which will function on a market basis. 3. Instructs the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism to do what is necessary to build a new nuclear power on the site of NPP "Belene" using the equipment paid by the Republic of Bulgaria. On today we are debating a topic of assistance that must be given to the National Electricity Company through the Ministry of Energy. I think this decision is unalternative, I would even call on my fellow Members to vote on two votes, because every day the state loses 324 thousand. lv. That decision is too late. It should have been taken immediately a month ago when the arbitration case was brought, as all kinds of lunacy regarding the search of a strategic investor goes through art. 45 of the Law on the Use of Nuclear Energy for Peaceful Purposes, goes through art. 148 of LU, which refers to art. 142, para. Two to ZUT. That is, a new procedure must be initiated to build a new nuclear power. Every slowdown in the country costs money. I beg you, colleagues: stop the political talk! There is someone to take responsibility for all the governments who have slept through the years what should have happened and did not happen. So we shouldn't talk about it, but we should do it. In this regard, two years of political party ABB spoke about a vision for the development of nuclear energy in Bulgaria. That's what it is. In front of me are eight concentrated pages of this vision. This vision we tried to get her into the Development Council when we participated in the management of the Republic of Bulgaria, and it was unsuccessful. I call on the Members of the Forty-third National Assembly to pay serious attention to the vision for the development of nuclear energy. Bulgaria is one of the 30 countries in the world that has been building nuclear power for 50 years. So far, it has built 515 teravat hours of electricity worth 44 billion. lv. The investment of Bulgaria has been paid eight times in these years. I call on you: Bulgaria can do nothing but decide that it must be one of these 30 countries to develop nuclear energy. [[Applause from ABB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. - What's the line? I won't. For a statement there is the word of the people representative Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u59	Dear Minister, dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The topic we are currently debating is a topic that is truly favorable for political speaking. But otherwise it is very dry and very boring matter. It is necessary for the Bulgarian Parliament to vote on NEK's right to receive a loan in order to be able to repay some debts. So much for economic factology. But we are somewhat like taxpayers, because we may now be MPs, but basically we are all taxpayers, we cannot in this situation not speak politically. Because the Bulgarian Parliament is also a political body. And I will speak not as an expert on energy, because I am not an expert on energy, I am suffering from what the mastite energyists of different political forces over time have created as a debt to all of us who indulge in Bulgarian energy, indebted it to such heights that simply the state is gassing to pay their bills. And now specifically on the subject. Do you feel that talking about what wasn't said just before, let's say, two pre-talkers. A clear sign was given to the Bulgarian Parliament that a parliamentary group, which is the most guilty of this state of Bulgarian energy, puts a condition on us - I say racketeering: we will support this bill, see if you agree to build a nuclear power plant "Belene"! Dear colleagues, we cannot talk about payment of debts without saying our vision, the political vision of not Bulgarian politicians, but of ordinary Bulgarian citizens taxpayers! Will we have a vision from now on to continue these lobbying corruption projects? Why can't he become a nuclear power plant by my humble understanding? First of all, it can't happen because it's not true that she has proper technical documentation. When the site of the nuclear power plant was made, when the ballast bed was made, the foundation of the plant was designed under certain conditions. Do you know what the NPP has been called for many years? Göl! To those who do not understand construction, to tell them: this means that the ballast cushion is watered down. That is, it cannot serve this necessary action, namely to isolate the ultimate structure from seismic impacts. BAS in the distant 1989 prepared a special report which clearly says that the location chosen for the plant is unfavorable for this purpose, because, notice, within a radius of 320 km there are six hypocenters of seismic impacts six! With potential over seven on the Richter! I ask the other: the EIA has expired. Who's gonna let it start being legal again? So would those people who do farming in this area be willing to do new dubious nuclear power there? So will Bulgarian agriculture not fail there? Just to remember before a parliament, the earlier one, when it was precisely because of the idea of extracting shale gas in that area, this was stopped because of these considerations because of water, because of environmental preservation, and we are preparing for the brains of some of our colleagues to make new nuclear power. Then I ask the following question: let's think about it, there are big economists here, let's see who needs this nuclear power? First of all, it's Soviet, Russian technology. She's already aged from when she was modern. I'm not saying she's hopelessly old, but she's old enough. That means Russian technology. Second of all, nuclear fuel, who's going to deliver it to us? Undoubtedly those who made the technology. Third, who will store spent fuel? You know that in Bulgaria this is a big problem and this is a huge investment outside the 10 billion. euros needed for the construction of this plant. Who? And now there is talk here, including the Bulgarian Prime Minister says: if some foreign investors come. Who will be these foreign investors who will come under these economic conditions - Russian technology, fuel from Russia, waste spent without a warehouse in Bulgaria and in Russia, and, notice no market for electricity? Who's gonna buy that electricity? Because if it's targeted in the next 40 years, then there will be many, much newer technological ways to produce electricity. We all understand that this project for some is not an economic project. This is a political project, and for others, as colleague Krasimir Velchev said, a question of commissioning, a question of return or commissioning depends on the decision of the National Assembly. So from now on, it must be clear: I will be one of those who will never vote in this Parliament, never, the launch of the NPP project! Never! And I think that all Bulgarian citizens who want their children to live in a healthy environment should stand behind this position. Otherwise, I have said it many times in other television appearances that I have had, yes, they have led us to have to pay this money. But let me now dwell on that question. We'll pay for it, it's clear. The question is why in Bulgaria, however, never before has anyone paid for the debt of the Bulgarian taxpayer? Never! Isn't it right on the left that there are two ministers at the time of which the Appendix 5 in question was signed? Two ministers of theirs, BSP. And now these two ministers, instead of being investigated by the prosecution, are in warm state places and we GERB tolerate them. First, why does Mr. Rumen Ovcharov continue to be the winner of the Golden Action of the Bulgarian State in Lukoil? Why does his country thank him for what he did for NPP Belene? Yeah, he's a big expert. [[Noise and lines from BSP LB.]] He was very right. What about the other minister, at the time of the signing of Appendix No. 5 "Peter Dimitrov"? Directly to all laws continues to be the head of the Board of State Enterprise. This is how the Bulgarian state punishes the people who owe us in some way. There you go! Let's remember during Kostov's time, I was in this government, and if I knew it was so, I never would have voted. What about U.S. power plants? Shouldn't we be paying another billion? And 100 million? Who signed this contract? It's your minister again. Again, your minister at the time during the time of Sergey Stanishev. He kept this deal going. You see how politically Bulgarian energy was bled out and all of us pay! And when you introduce your populist laws for children with disabilities, which I have always supported and everyone knows that I am voting, I will tell you the following thing, gentlemen of the BSP. If you hadn't stolen that money for Belene, there wouldn't be a problem for disabled children now! [[Applause from GERB and RB.]] They would have been paid back many times.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u60	Mr. Andreev, let's get back to the Bill. Or are you done already? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u61	One specific issue that needs to be discussed is that we will be paying something that we have not seen. Firstly, it is not clear the exact text of the arbitration decision. None of us have read it. It was a trade secret. We take it as an answer that deserves to be verified, however. Because no one pays money until they see what they buy. I have the best treatment for Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova and I just want to give her some advice. Mrs. Petkova, I know that there is currently a shortage of experts in NEK who can authentically determine whether there are actually exactly the type of reactors produced, as we speak. In the expert committee that will go, I recommend that there be representatives of.......................................................................................... The expertise of this committee must be guaranteed so that it does not happen later that we have bought something that we cannot use in any way. Because the news is different, including those that the equipment has already been sold or has not been produced at all. If we're gonna pay, we're gonna pay for something concrete. First, let's see him, get him, make sure he's actually made and then. It's just the advice to you. And I want to finally apologize to you. I am emotional in general, but on this subject we all need to be emotional and we all need to be political. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. Line! Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Andreev, you really are quite emotional. Mr. Andreev, can you hear me? I'm making a line to you. I see you're quite emotional. Of course, I do not accept the comparison that, you see, now there is no money for children with disabilities because of the project. Things are not connected and everything is a matter of politics. Here's the idea. GERB must clearly and specifically say... do we want to develop nuclear energy or not. If we are not going to develop nuclear energy, then this decision should have been taken much earlier. Because the reformers don't say anything either. [[Replys from the MP Petar Slavov.]] Why you have no relation when approximately 380 million were spent between 2009 and 2012. lv.? When I entered the post of Minister, money was still paid for the project. What are we doing, Mr. Andreev? You should be here sooner, all of us, without emotion, should make an important strategic decision. I appeal to the government in the face of Mrs. Temenuzhka Petrova clearly and firmly to state: will this state continue to develop nuclear energy or not; what is the readiness for the project "Belene"....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Or we're going to RES, we're going to a whole other power supply that's not basic, that's not stable, and we're doing it this way. But we have to make the decision. One such project goes through several governments. Enough with the driving! Because it's everyone's fault here. I don't want to pay either, but in the end, we're condemned. We're condemned! Whatever suggestions you make to Mrs. Petkova, we are condemned. We've been convicted, yes, because the project has been shut down. That's why it is, and now we have to put it out. But it's not just on the left here. Here the wines are also GERB, of course. If the project were bad, if they were hard against it, they would have stopped it by coming to power. And they go on for three more years, even after them.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u64	Your time is up, Mr. Stoinev. Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Andreev? [[Reply of National Representative Metodi Andreev.]] Yeah, it's beyond the subject of the debate. For the next speech there is the word of the people representative Magdalena Tasheva, after it the people representative Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u65	We need to explain to the Bulgarian people why they will pay according to the most optimistic data around 640 EUR for a project in which he has already invested about 350 million. What's the truth? First, it was spoken by the Prime Minister of Bulgaria in the beginning of April 2011, when he spoke with the rights of Prime Minister one hour on the Bulgarian National Television on the topic of the Bulgarian National Television on the topic of the Bulgarian National Security Agency (NPP) Belene. He explained why the NPP is key to Bulgaria's national security, why it is key in general to Bulgarian energy and from here to Bulgaria's economy. He also showed the contract, which said that any interruption of this project will bring, will force Bulgaria to pay 600 million. EUR penalty of the Atomstroyexport. That is, by April 2011, the Prime Minister was aware that we were paying 600 million. Euro penalty. Isn't that right? What caused the reversal of his position to 180 degrees? That's what caused it! [[Shows electronic media printout.]] See? Do they see the media?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u66	No, no.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u67	Please focus! [[Laughter at GERB.]] . On 5 February 2012, the Secretary of State Hillary Clinton came here and ordered your Prime Minister to close the project "Belene" because it has a large Russian participation. It is not only Russian, of course, but Russian participation is overwhelming. And what are we reading? On February 5th, by the way, I would like to add this to the joint press conference with Hillary Clinton Borisov said that from now on Bulgaria will rely on projects such as "Greece Arda" which, of course, made itself a sad characteristic. On 29 March of that year, his parliamentary majority voted to close the project, knowing very well that it would cost the Bulgarian taxpayer at least 600 million. Euros. Wouldn't you like a day before that, on March 28th, a political gigolo, who was then a foreign minister in your cabinet, has notified Hillary Clinton of the decision your majority will take the next day. Here's what this minister of yours says: "Dear Madam Secretary, I am currently in Athens, writes Richard Morningstar, as part of a visit... I wanted to inform you that I received a call from Bulgarian Foreign Minister Mladenov, who informed me that Bulgaria has just announced its decision to cancel the nuclear project. He rushed a few hours, had to wait until March 29th. Here, on April 1, 2012 Hillary Clinton [[shows electronic media printout]] welcomes Bulgaria for the difficult decision to give up the nuclear power plant. She congratulated Nikolay Mladenov for the decision, but here it is interesting to read you the last paragraph of this information. The government decided on Wednesday to give up the project with Russia. Economy and Energy Minister Delyan Dobrev left for Moscow on Friday, where he presented the decision to stop Belene, after which he announced that Russia does not intend to sue Bulgaria. Who lied, I ask?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u68	Who, who?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u69	The truth is that at the moment, in order to wash your hands, of course, you want Parliament to decide to pay this penalty, with which you legitimize an international gesht, a rough international gesht of your first cabinet. [[GERB lines.]] Yesterday at the joint meeting of the Budget and Energy Commission, I recommended to your group, the right, that you be briefed. Read, for example, from April, a study of corruption has been published in "Forine Politics of Corruption." I recommend you read the Globalization of bribery. Google it. Google it. Google it. Google it. There are even listed, there are tables, what is the amount of bribe paid to close such projects. Well, they say it's about 10%. I cannot, of course, argue that you have allocated 63 million euros, because that is how bribery is, but other researchers of corruption, politicalists, claim that this is about the amount of compensation that today, with the decision that you will vote on, will legitimise. I want to say something else. I asked such a question yesterday and Minister Petkova: Ma'am, you claim that we will pay the first tranche 400 million and then another 228 million after the European Commission gives you permission for State aid after you notify it. Well, one notification takes the European Commission 90 days to one year. Ninety days means another 30 million. lv. To the amount that we owe to the Atomstroyexport, right? What gives you a guarantee that this time the European Commission will be so efficient because, as you say, if payments are delayed, I will immediately tell you at least two names in the European Commission of commissioners who, loyal to its corrupt practices of two lobbyists, would gladly monitor the bankruptcy of the National Electricity Company. These are Gunther Oettinger and Maros Šefčovič, who, on his visit to Bulgaria, delighted us that we will have the opportunity to buy electricity, we Bulgarians. After that, the complaints that someone, but not you, led NEK to this sad state, are actually trying to hide from the Bulgarian society why NEK was systematically and purposefully bankrupt. Many times out of this tribune, I have explained to you and reminded you that NEK is bankrupt on the basis of the price decisions of the regulator, which rely on the corruption law on energy. You yourself, Minister, said that under the Energy Act, alas, NEK is intended to rob the negative imbalances, I quote you, in the energy system of Bulgaria. That's the reason. I can't help but notice that in today's day, there are simulations of the type of dograms, building permits and black-and-white TVs that speak only of your low horizon, which has remained at a household level. [[Elevator bell dings]] Which makes me think that you shouldn't be allowed to do as high a material as nuclear energy at all. And to remind you that you didn't mind another, new reactor in Bulgaria being built. You didn't have any fears back then, you didn't have radiophobia attacks, as long as this reactor was assigned to the Westinghouse, which is an American firm. It's disrupting all your arguments so far. I conclude with one question and a request to the chairmen of today's sitting. Gentlemen, to my great amazement, not someone else, but Mr. Ivan Stanchev, the same one who was fined 3,000 leva. because of an arranged contest for parliamentary cars, which is now the Secretary-General of Parliament, had ordered that there would be no full transcript of yesterday's joint meeting of the Energy and Budget Committee. The Budget Committee would have one re-story of the statements, it was just one statement and made him a Commissioner, personally appointed by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u70	There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u71	And from the statements of the Energy Commission, there would be no shorthand, there would only be a sound file. I would like to remind you that your employee Stanchev has no right to issue such orders. Even you have no right to deprive the Bulgarian society of information about the work of the National Assembly. And I insist today, by the end of the working day, that the full transcript of yesterday's meeting be published on the website of the National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP LB and "Attack."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tasheva. It's probably about the Secretary-General named Ivan Slavchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u73	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u74	Are there any lines? I won't. On several occasions there was an assessment of the suspension 2012. However, I expect someone to value if it was not for stopping, how many times more will be paid. [[BSP LB.]] For the next statement there is Mr. Antony Trenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u75	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! In the past few years, I have found that somehow in Bulgaria we have become very easily accustomed to taking robbery in colossal proportions as something normal, as something that happens in our geographical latitudes just like this. Such a high-end robbery was KTB. Something similar is the pipes for South Stream. Not to mention all the robberies that the time of our parliamentary group will be over. The power plant is the power plant KTB. A grand deal with clear beneficiaries. Whoever didn't ask for it didn't identify them. Let there be no doubt here. Even the prime minister yesterday called "Belene" an absolute corruption deal. Where's the D.A.? Will anyone in this country ever take responsibility for anything? Moreover, few political parties are innocent in this case. I'm looking to the left at my colleagues, you've literally hooked the country up with your Grandoan economic inefficient projects. And don't think you can fool people into thinking you had nothing to do with it. Colleagues from GERB Yes, you did not follow this problem, but let us not forget that for almost four years you ruled alone by a large majority. Why didn't you put an end to this farce then? How many billion would we have saved? Why did the agony have to last so long, when the final result has always been known? But all right, let's look to the bright future. People have said, "Better a terrible end than a terror without end." Time is directed straight. The past, at this stage of human development, we cannot return. When there is an arbitration ruling that is not subject to appeal, we don't really have an infinite number of options. So I, as well as a large part of the Reformation bloc, will with disgust support the Project for a solution. Not because it fills me with particular enthusiasm the prospect of paying the Russians billion and 200 million. The attitude of the Russian Federation towards Bulgaria we saw in the arrogant speech of the newly hatched Russian parliamentarians a few days ago. Shame and shame on him to bear the name Tolstoy. Bulgaria must demonstrate, however, that it complies with its contracts, which it has signed and that it complies with the decisions of the international arbitration courts. This is the rule of law. Its function is economic prosperity. Besides, we have a chance here to get out of this situation with minimal damage. However, this time, unlike the overall blurring of responsibility in the case of the nuclear power plant, it will be very clear who has taken the responsibility of the Energy Minister, the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers. With adequate management of acquired assets, we can even come up with a plus. But be asked about this case this is the last chance to turn things around for the benefit of Bulgaria. If mistakes are made again, Bulgarian citizens will not forgive this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u76	Are there any lines to Mr. Trenchev's statement? I won't. The next speech is by Alexander Nenkov from GERB. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honored guests! What's sad about today's debate? The sad thing about today's debate is that as much as we blame ourselves on who's more wrong, who's right, ultimately everyone in this room, and maybe outside of it, is aware that we have to pay for the devil, as they say. $630 million. euros will go in the direction of one country precisely by the Bulgarian taxpayer, without any clarification from here on out what we are doing. Yeah, there are two options. One option is to continue the project, but with clear economic parameters, or the other option is to look for an option to sell these two reactors. Undoubtedly here the responsibility falls on the government, and that is precisely why yesterday the Commission, and today it is Minister Petkova, representative of the Council of Ministers, of the government, for other people's mistakes should now be looking for an option to blush, to come to explain how we should pay this money, because from a financial point of view it should be so. We are condemned for having made one wrong decision, whether because of short-sighted politics or because of various accusations of corruption scheme and so on, without getting into this subject because it is not my job, but the Council of Ministers, the whole government should be blushing and looking for how to explain to the taxpayer how nice it is now to pay some 620 EUR, because really from a financial point of view, it would be better to pay them now, not in a year's time, because the process is inevitable. Here, colleagues on the left, you need to be a little humble, because the words fly away, as they say, but ultimately what is written remains. I will take account of why we have come to this decision today, which is a shame in my opinion, another shameful decision that we should vote on to seek the lesser evil. Two are the important events that have predetermined today's decision. Well, you've started building a nuclear power plant called Belene, you've had a decision by the Council of Ministers No 259, No 260. So far, so good. After that, however, you signed an agreement. I apologize, before that you chose a strategic investor in the face of RV. So far, so good. All of a sudden, what are you doing? In 2006, you signed the unknown Agreement No 5 in which you ordered equipment with a long production cycle.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u78	There's no solution!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u79	It is of the corresponding value to be paid, plus interest. Except you didn't sign a construction contract. You wrote in this Agreement that you need to sign an additional contract to build the respective headquarters at the site of Belene, but you didn't. You didn't do it! For two reasons, I think. The first is that you didn't really have the guts, you had two years to reach a contract with the Russian side, but you didn't. The second reason is that it's always easier to say, "We have to order the equipment now, to engage the state in the project..."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u80	Take the commissions!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u81	I don't want to tell you about the commissions, because that's not the way we should talk. It is much easier for the next governments to finally pay the bill and you to have clean hands. You didn't have the stomach for it, and it didn't have the guts, given that in 2006 you didn't sign up for the biggest boom of economic growth in the world in the last decades, given that you were so bragging about surpluses that you generated every year, you didn't sign it, you didn't commit, and you didn't take responsibility. If you had taken responsibility, we wouldn't have come to this debate today at all. The nuclear power plant was to be built or would have been built and we wouldn't be commenting at all on how to limit the damage, the damage from the wrong decisions you made. That's why you really need to be a little more humble in this particular debate. Yes, the debate on the decision itself must be different, because from a financial point of view, it is better to pay this obligation now. But we must not forget about the wrong decisions that have led to today's shameful decision for the Bulgarian Parliament! Again! We paid a billion and two hundred for a case that was short-sighted, to the so-called American power stations. Now I'm looking at a billion and two hundred. I don't want to rush into populism to say about mothers with children. No, it is an economic project, and it should be built on economic logic, not just some political solution. I will conclude by saying that this debate would really make sense, and this decision, if we no longer allow ourselves to come to such shameful debates, shameful laws that we have to vote on. From now on, we must look for any economic logic in every decision we make. These two and a half billion, which will go just like this, irrevocably, are the product of wrong decisions where because of a corruption scheme, where because of insufficient forward-looking policy, but ultimately they come from each of us. It is really humiliating because across the country will get the money, but the humiliation remains for us as MPs, as politicians, as a society that we have allowed to get to this point. No matter how much we blame ourselves, everyone knows how much responsibility he has suffered, what he has done, and why he has come to this decision. We should be ashamed of ourselves and from now on, not to make mistakes like this happen again. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any lines to the last statement? I won't. I think that in further discussion we should at least stop referring to arguments that are already irrelevant to it. I'm talking about the difference between an agreement and a contract. The ruling of the Court of Arbitration itself makes this very cosy argument pointless in the argumentation. [[GERB's line.]] At least I don't think a lawyer can understand it. I don't address the others.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u83	You can make a statement from the stands, not from there.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u84	Right. Thank you. The next speech is from Mr. Valeri Simeonov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! First, I would like to address Mr. Stoilov and Mr. Glauchev, as the leaders of this meeting, with a call to avoid diversion in the course of the discussions from the subject of the bill. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Members! The theme of the Bill is not the past and future of the nuclear energy of Bulgaria. The subject of the Bill is the subject of payment by the National Electric Company under an arbitration case, in which Bulgaria is ordered to pay some ordered and in question, manufactured or failed reactors, is also not a matter of discussion here. I'm surprised to hear lawyers thinking about whether or not something could be done. There is a sentence on the Arbitration Court, we are convicted and every day a delay in payment brings losses to Bulgaria of the order of 350 thousand. lv. Three hundred and fifty thousand leva! It is not right to enter into a dispute whose sins are, when the big mistake was made when someone ordered reactors for the production of electricity, which Bulgaria and its neighbours do not need at the time or at the present time. Nor is it a matter of discussing whether it was right or wrong to stop the construction, given that the same government supported it the past two years. This is not the subject of the discussion and the bill. I appeal to everyone to focus on the fact that every day Bulgaria loses 350 thousand. lv.! What is the actual situation at the moment? The government has money to make the first payment, and it declares it. On this occasion, he submitted a bill, relying on the approval of the National Assembly, to pay this money as it exists. If we delay this decision, the responsibility for every passing day, which brings losses to Bulgaria of 350 thousand. BGN, falls on us... on the National Assembly. In particular, however, it falls on the political power that will take the blame for this delay. I'm addressing Mrs. Ninova. Mrs. Ninova, this responsibility will fall on BSP, it cannot be diverted. The case is simple. We are condemned, there is money, we have to approve the payment, so that we can stop these disastrous interest rates. I call on you, if you have not made the decision which Mr. Ermenkov hinted about to submit proposals between first and second readings, I beg you not to. If you do not support the bill, vote against it, but allow today to end this issue. If we do not make a decision today, there will be four days of holidays, two more days, Monday and Tuesday, when the National Assembly will not work. In six days Bulgaria will lose two million! Viewing the second reading in the Commission, entering the Chamber, put more. Bulgaria will lose 4 million just because we hang out or because we have political PR, advertising, Abracadabri and everything else. Once again, I urge you to be responsible and patriotic, because what we are going to talk about, what reproaches, insults and qualifications we will throw at each other, doesn't matter. Every day brings loss to Bulgaria. Until we decide to accept the decision, Bulgaria will lose 6 million. lv. That's $6 million. lv. they are from the order of maybe about 5 km of fence, more than 7 km of fence. A fence he needs money for. A fence that must be built continuously, without stopping because the fatal date of October is approaching or, when the irregular one comes, the decision to let them go to Bulgaria. This is the last time I ask you, because the decision will pass anyway. The decision will pass! There is a majority in the National Assembly. The question is, are we gonna lose that $6 million? If we lose them, the responsibility will be entirely yours. The patriotic front will support the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u86	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Are there lines? I won't. Mr. Ermenkov, a personal explanation. Just, Mr. Simeonov, see art. 3, para. 1 " Even what you are calling for will not cause this effect. Look at the text of the Law! Mr. Ermenkov, a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u87	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simeonov, it sounds beautiful, but it's not true! If you really look at the Law, you will see that this payment will only be made after we have a notification from the European Commission. I am very interested in these three or how many days you accept it between first and second readings, who will run to the European Commission and come back with the notification, knowing what the speeds are there?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u88	And what is the personal explanation?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u89	Well, that's what it's all about...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u90	This is an objection to the substance.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u91	They're trying to transfer responsibility to us, Mr. Chairman, for the fact that we're going to be responsible for 6 million, which will accumulate further. That's what I'm trying to explain. There's no way they're gonna stack up because of this offer I'm offering the $6 million. They will pile up until the notification comes, and, by the way, the Minister said it wouldn't be paid even before an inspection of whether or not there is equipment. I don't suppose he's gonna be checking that thing out at the holidays right now. So we can't talk about that responsibility again. Finally, if we are going to take responsibility, I also asked in my speech what have you been doing since May until now, and how many million have accumulated so far that you are now in haste for somewhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u92	Thank you. Transform what Mr. Ermenkov said, not as a personal explanation, but as a replica one minute of the time, because it was essentially a line to which you were entitled. [[Heckling]] No, no. I'm saying it was basically a line, so one minute of the time you're going to read it...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u93	Then I can continue my line for another 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u94	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u95	I inform you that we will make a proposal between first and second readings.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u96	One minute, time as a line, not as a personal explanation. Mr. Simeonov, what do you want the floor for?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u97	It's a hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u98	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u99	Dear Mr. Ermenkov, you were at the Commission yesterday. It was not right to silence the discussion that took place there because you know our position on this issue. I explicitly stated that there should be no waiting for notification that payment should be made. In this regard, if you want, you can support us. And the second, I also categorically stated that responsibility should be taken for losing the entire month of August and ten days after the court's ruling. Why has today's meeting not been held so far? I also told you that maybe we should have had an emergency meeting in early August.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u100	There's a word for Mr. Valentin Nikolov. From DPS requested the word Mr. Ramadan Atalay and the other announced speakers Radan Kanev and Rumen Gechev if there are no others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Madam Minister! The theme, since the restart of Belene, has always been in the political space. There has always been a "for" and "against" and we've come this far. I just can't accept the fact that it's being said that it could now be working, because it could really work. There was a block that, unfortunately, now works at the Kalinian nuclear power plant in Russia. He could have worked here for 40 years. We were not yet in the European Union. He was from a generation like the V and VI block. Now we on the VI block, where on 2 August this year we celebrate 25 years since the inclusion in the parallel system of the Republic of Bulgaria, could work for it, and we would not spend these millions and billions we are talking about here. But what did we do? We sold this block for pennies at the Kalinian nuclear power plant, where it works fully, I think the IV block is there, at the Kalinian nuclear power plant. That's the truth. And who speaks of being able to operate the nuclear power plant with the new units, is also not telling the truth because by 2012, when the project was shut down, we had a reactor housing made 100% and one 25%. How would it work? Yes, the steam generators were made, and other details were made with a long production cycle. I've seen them myself! If anyone asks who's seen them, I've seen them myself. I've been to the Ijorski factories in the autumn of 2012. That is, there was no way for the nuclear power plant to start running in 2012 -- that's not true. That's not true! Because, first of all, there's no contract to make it work. Just ordered some details about the production cycle. The most ironic thing about the whole situation is that this money that we are going to give will not be given to [[Heckling]] There's nothing natural about it, I'm just telling the facts. I'm just saying the facts! Since there is talk of nuclear energy, is there a strategy, will it develop or not? I can point out that the strategy adopted 2010 says that Bulgaria must produce 2 thousand megawatts of nuclear power. That strategy is still valid. There's no point in asking whether we're gonna do something or not, how we're gonna do it. It says 2,000 megawatts of nuclear power. On top of that, the extension of the period of the V and VI block of the NPP is the number one priority for all governments, so nuclear energy in Bulgaria must develop. I say the facts again without commenting on whether it's right or wrong. There is also a decision of the National Assembly of 2012, which recommends that the government examine the possibility of building a nuclear block at the nuclear power plant. That decision is still valid. A lot of things have been done at the NPP "Kozloduy" "Pre-project research," geological survey, EIA, documents have been submitted to the NPP "Kozloduy" nuclear plant, so this possibility has not been exhausted. She exists! The government can quite calmly talk to "Atomstroyexport", respectively with "Rosatom", whether it can really install nuclear power in Bulgaria without canceling this decision. Belene doesn't have to leave right away. If we have an investor, let's. Welcome! But we still don't know, first of all, is this equipment stored properly so we can pay for it? Since 2012, I think April has done the last inspection of this equipment by arch-eng. Warnie Parsons and experts from the National Electricity Company. This is the last key event that has to do with Agreement No 5. Since then, no one has known what the documentation is, how the equipment is further produced, the housing of reactor No 2 which is already 90%. No one has seen how it was done, whether all technological norms have been respected. I have no doubt about that, but it has to be checked, you have to complete all the documentation, see if storage and conservation is made, you have to negotiate the store itself. Then, after we pay them, will they stay there? Will we bring them to Bulgaria? Where do we store them? There's a lot, a lot of work. A lot of work on this thing! That's why I appeal to you. Let's unite. Yes, thank God, we're uniting around paying! The situation is that... We are not convicted in Arbitration. The Arbitration has ruled this thing, which is an agreement between the Atomstroyexprot and the National Electricity Company. In other words, Bulgaria has not been convicted. She's committed herself to paying for some details she ordered that she doesn't know where they'll be because she doesn't have a contract. We do not know exactly what will happen, but we are obliged to pay for what we have ordered. Thank God, no escalation that the Russian side claimed. I think now is the opportunity for Bulgaria to end with projects that are not done properly, are not structured properly. Now we can structure a project, become market-oriented and be able to attract strategic investors. Now is the time if we don't go into too much politics and cross too many swords. We have to go in one direction, as for example for Hub Balkan. I think everyone has expressed a positive opinion and is waiting for good things to happen. Let's join together here and move forward. Here's Minister Temenuzhka Petkova has taken over the negotiations with Let her offer us the options, but in order for the negotiations to start, there must be a payment. It's a fact! We have to pay our trusts, taken by one, by the second, by the third, but we have to pay these trusts. I think that the government has made a very adequate decision and I think that we have all supported it in the Commission, and I hope that we will also support it here, so that we do not accumulate infinitely many interest rates that are not at all, as we all know. There's no point in quoting them. I appeal as fast as I can, as fast as I can, let's move slowly! That is, to structure things this way, to completely clear what we pay, to be able to effectively use it or whatever we are offered so that this money can be effectively returned to Bulgaria in one way or another. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u102	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the People's Representative Radan Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! At the very beginning of my speech, I will say that I cannot support this bill. Not at this stage, and with those guarantees. Horrible end or terror without end, said colleague Trenchev. Several prominent Bulgarian journalists also said that, and I am inclined to agree with them. But where is the guarantee that this, the awful, will be an end and not a new start of terror without end? For starters, who saw the contract to build this reactor? Of course, no one, because there is no such contract. However, who has seen the arbitration decision on which we vote today to pay in full? I still haven't heard any arguments from such a man. Who's seen the nuclear reactor ready? Nobody again. And then the future-oriented questions: do we have a guarantee that once we have paid, we will get possession of this reactor? Guaranteed in black and white, which with the Russians is still not safe enough, but on oral contracts with them is known to be untrustworthy. Do we have any guarantee that once they've paid, we'll be given permission to use this reactor even on our territory? No, because it's contained in a contract that doesn't exist. Do we have a guarantee that once they've paid, we'll get permission to sell in third countries? No, we absolutely do not have such a guarantee and I do not know if such guarantees have ever been given by the Russian side. Do we have a guarantee that we will get the technical documentation without which this reactor is old iron, scrap, worth several tens of thousands of leva? Is there a request from the creditor to the Bulgarian court for the fulfilment of this obligation on NEK? Here the answer is clear, but no one says it is not, there is not, and without the ruling of the Bulgarian court the National Electric Company has no obligations. There is no clarity and what the Bulgarian country wants at the moment when it makes this decision to pay. BSP and part of the Patriotic Front quite clearly say that their support is under the condition that the project "Belene" will be built. The majority of GERB and the majority of the Reformation bloc quite clearly say that their support is conditional that this project will finally be terminated and will not be built. Why do we owe this money right now? We owe them because unilaterally, without public debate, without clarity on the project some employees in Bulgarian energy have signed a protocol under which this reactor was built. That's the official version. This official version, ladies and gentlemen, is a lie. It's just a lie! We owe it because it's a paid advance! An advance was paid after NEK said there was no money for this reactor, money was allocated by the Minister of Energy Mr. Petar Dimitrov, and with this money was paid 90 million. lv. advance. So the responsibility of only two employees of NEK cannot remain. The same Peter Dimitrov today was reassigned from the current government to an extremely high position in Bulgarian energy, as well as, apropo, and the previous mentor of Where's our guarantee that he won't follow... I'm asking for an extension of time, Mr. Chairman. ... That there will be no next unilateral action on the Bulgarian side? Are we sure that today's action of the Bulgarian Parliament, which is essentially a unilateral statement, that we are ready to unconditionally pay the Russians this amount, are we sure that this unilateral act does not drag us into a new spiral of new and new subsequent obligations? Where is the agreement that the payment is final and that there are no further claims that there will be no subsequent costs? I'm sorry, but there's no terrible end to it here. Here there is a very expensive element of the horror without end and in order to receive this Law support, it should be clear exactly what follows after the payment of this money from the Bulgarian side with the reactor, with the permissions, with the technical documentation, with the sale or construction of Bulgarian territory. Otherwise, today is just an episode of this endless saga that has dragged the Bulgarian taxpayer and Bulgarian electricity consumer, not only by a billion and 200, but by over 3 billion and none, zero guarantees against our vote today that will not follow another 3 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? There are no lines. To speak, the People's Representative Rumen Gechev. Then there'll be a break. For speech were signed by the MPs Ramadan Atali and Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u105	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, colleagues! We've heard various psychoanalyses and experiments on engineering analysis. Let's get back to reality and financial numbers. Since, honourable Members, there is no doubt that there is a decision of an international court, we must make the payment and we will do so, but the Rules of the National Assembly oblige us, honourable Members, and here the importers do not comply with the Rules of the National Assembly, to apply an analysis of the impact of this payment and the consequences for the Republic of Bulgaria, because, honourable Members, the question is not at all in this payment of more than 630 million. Euros. The question is: what will be the consequences for the Bulgarian budget, what are the sources? It was correctly said: will there be future payments? And the most important thing is what will be the scheme for the recovery of these funds. Because, honourable Members, and yesterday the Budget Committee referred to the following: the Bulgarian state is well, should pay these funds and help NEK. There are no two opinions here on this. The question is, however, when NEK will return these funds to the budget, to the Bulgarian taxpayers. And the answer to this question depends on the future of the project. When we go to ask for a loan from a bank, we ask for a financial plan with what sources, what deadlines we can return the money we have taken. At the moment, the Ministry of Energy cannot give such a repayment plan, as there is no government decision, there is no parliament decision on the lifting of the moratorium and the completion of the project, so there is no way we can make a decision today only in terms of payment, as we are actually implementing an international court decision on which there is nothing to comment on, but we, as MPs, honourable Members, are obliged to ask the government and to provide assistance here is a place of cooperation and assistance between the political forces to find a solution, honourable Members, which is in the interests of the Bulgarian people. In no way can I agree on the economic disadvantage at the completion of the project "Belene" because, honourable Members, let us stop thinking about the possibility of buying this reactor on the other hand. Even from a common culture of nuclear energy, it is clear to us that this is not possible and we are only wasting time. The options are economically two to Russia to buy back the reactors and, as happened with the first reactor, to implement them on Russian territory. The second option is for the Republic of Bulgaria to complete the project, which is the best option by decision and by foreign economic analysts, including HSBC in three calculation options. And the scariest option for Bulgaria is that we make this payment and turn the reactors into a museum for the development of nuclear energy in the world. So, honourable Members, we want between first and second readings to raise the moratorium on the continuation of the project "Belene" so that the Bulgarian people can return the funds they are putting back, because this is not a loss of 637 million. euros, honourable Members. We have to add over 1 billion to them. BGN, which are already invested in the construction of the site in Belene. Most importantly, here we need to take into account in the economic analysis the losses in billions of unproduced gross domestic product, because, honourable Members, are there currently a nuclear reactor and a nuclear power plant that are losing financially? And we say to you: there is no such plant. Dear fellow Members,....who has paid hundreds of millions of dollars of compensation and continues to pay even...................... in Japan after the tragedy that has been played, and it is profitable according to the financial data of the company. Go online and you'll see. By what logic will nuclear reactors only in the country Bulgaria be losers? That's not an option. All financial estimates show that nuclear energy everywhere in the world is profitable, albeit with a different rate of profitability. In addition, the investor could be the Bulgarian state, as in the European Union all nuclear plants, for your information, are state-owned! Good morning! The European Union does not have a single private... [[Noise and lines.]] Thanks for asking. Not a single private station! So, throughout the European Union, state plants are profitable, only in Bulgaria they will be losers, according to the right. [[Noise and lines.]] Just to justify the foreign-political servitude that's costing us more and more. At the next place, we asked the questions yesterday about the sources of these funds. First of all, we've learned that those surpluses in the budget of 3 billion 200 million since July have already evaporated. There's no such source. The second option, which is acceptable, by the way, is the use of funds which the early Deposit Guarantee Fund will pay to the Bulgarian budget, which will possibly be used. The good news is that we still do not have to withdraw a new external loan or an internal government loan to repay that 1 billion 200 million. In addition, honourable Members, when comparisons are made between payments on the so-called American power stations (USS) and "Belene" (Belene) there is a huge difference. I understand the ideological attempt to join together, to combine the two problems, but, sorry, what we are paying the so-called American power stations is the difference between the market price and the American price. We pay the price above the electricity market, while in this case we pay for something we get. We are receiving modern nuclear technologies that can produce gross domestic product for the Republic of Bulgaria. So, in conclusion, with regard to the payment yesterday, check the protocol, we proposed before we received the approval of the European Commission to make the payment after a comparative analysis of what the possible financial penalty would be for Bulgaria and how much the daily payment of interest costs us, as we do not have any economic or legal guarantees as to how long the European Commission will sit, will discuss and when it will approve this notification. In addition, as a Bulgarian, I would like to express my outrage. Here, in the last few months, we have been discussing the realization of the EU budgets and the so-called "sanctions." Dear colleagues, no one has been sanctioned so far. Britain had a budget deficit of about 12% of gross domestic product. The first two countries that violated the agreement and the responsibilities of the budget deficit were Germany and France. No one's been punished. No procedure has been brought to an end, but right now our people must be punished for possibly paying millions, because only the Bulgarians do not comply with the respective directives and sanctions. What expectations do we have that the European Commission will not approve payments by decision of the International Court of Justice? So we demand that the government take all measures, make a comparative analysis and quickly propose a proposal for a pre-payment, and then wait for the possible notification of the European Union. I am pleased that other Members also supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u106	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u107	And in conclusion, honourable Members, the accounts of the foreign policy servantship of Bulgaria eventually began to arrive.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u108	Your time is up, dear Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u109	They are building nuclear plants in Turkey, Britain is starting a new nuclear plant, but we will serve certain countries, we will bury millions and billions of Bulgarian people, our brothers and sisters, to serve other countries and countries, we will ruin South Stream...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u110	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u111	While Mrs Merkel is passing two more pipes with the same natural gas from Russia, so the bills are getting scary! And that is why we want between first and second reading at last the Bulgarian MPs to fulfill our commitment and pay for something that will bring good to the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Come in, we'll finish the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Gechev, I agree with you in your speech, only twice you mentioned the word "moratorium." As is known, the moratorium is a legal act of a competent authority temporarily suspending certain legal rules or administrative acts. The decision of the Council of Ministers with the approval of the National Assembly has not temporarily suspended its decision under art. 45 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy for the Construction of the Nuclear Power Plant "Belene" and finally repealed it. In this sense, there is no moratorium. A new decision by the Council of Ministers under Article is needed to obtain or renew a permit for the construction of the NPP. 45 of the Law on the Safe Use of Nuclear Energy, there should therefore be an investor to refer to the Council of Ministers through the Minister of Energy by proposing a relevant investment project. The National Assembly has neither competence to revoke the decision of the Council of Ministers nor to prescribe the taking of such a decision, so this is in the competence of the Council of Ministers, which can immediately make a procedure for a new strategic investor and the construction of the NPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsochev. The second line is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, and then the People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u115	Mr. Gechev, I thought I would not give you a reply, because your speech was not entirely under the bill and in the way in which it will finance this compensation aid, but I cannot help but say: thanks to the fact that the Law states that compensation is provided, this ensures that it will return, and it is clear how things can be realized. This shows the government's attitude towards the state budget and the distribution of budget money. Unlike your colleague, a former minister of the same ministry, who proposed to a committee to increase the capital of BEH and NEK, thus solving the problem. This meant the non-refundability of the budget money. This was done during your management only two years ago, when by raising the capital of state-owned companies you gave money from the state budget to these companies and their activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Third line. "The People's Representative Chavdar Georgiev. You're giving up. You don't have time. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u117	Thank you. I agree with your note, Mr. Tsochev. I'm not a lawyer, but I had to look. It's a decision. From a financial point of view, whether it's a solution or a moratorium, things look the way I explained them. So once again I want to repeat the Bulgarian economy after this investment we have paid the project almost 30%. There is no other option published anywhere in the world than the option of completing the project and producing gross domestic product. Dear colleagues, when a country has a cheap resource, it produces goods from it. It exports this resource or produces other goods with this resource. The problem with the electricity market doesn't stand at all. With regard to the retribution. Colleague Stoyanova, that's the point. NEK is obliged to return the money because with this Bill, and then the law, we say it is requited. I ask: if NEK pays a dollar a year, he repays. When's he gonna pay us back? In 5036 every bank wants a financial plan. We ask: when and how exactly will the money be returned? NEK cannot answer without knowing what is going on with the completion of Belene. And one lev to pay NEK, his bankruptcy will be deeper and deeper. The only solution is the completion of the project "Belene" and paid on dates when, how and how much funds are returned to the taxpayer. [[Reply of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u118	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. In your speech, you referred to a legal act requesting a mandatory impact assessment. This regulation shall enter into force from November this year, i.e. it is not yet in force. Dear colleagues, on the occasion of September 22nd the Day of Independence of Bulgaria in the Northern lobby of the National Assembly will be opened the documentary exhibition The World for the Bulgarian Warrior. It presents materials published in European press dedicated to major events in Bulgarian history after the Liberation. This is the external view of Bulgarian history, which showed Europe's interest in Bulgaria. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. It's 11:40 a.m. Time out in thirty minutes. We'll continue the session at 12.10 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u119	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There is a statement of the MP Ramadan Atalay. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam Minister, honourable colleagues, Mr Chairman! We are also looking at the Law and if we read the title: a project for providing assistance for the payment of debts to the National Electricity Company and we do not get into the essence of the texts, one will start asking serious questions. Why, since in recent months the National Electricity Company is on profit, should we consider the Law on the granting of aid for payment of debts? We have awakened the spirits for several days and especially since yesterday, after the Council of Ministers decided to pay something that is absolutely not to be discussed................................is to be paid. There is not in the world where any court has decided to condemn you and subsequently meditate or discuss these funds or should they not be paid? So much for payments. The question arises: why should this money be paid? Then we start to think of certain actions of the previous rulers, and now the rulers, and suddenly, as one fellow Member said, we must admit that we have all sinned together. I don't know if we're gonna be useless right now. Why did we all sin together? Because there is no clear, long-term strategy for the development of energy in Bulgaria. I heard Mr. Nikolov, who said that the 2010 Strategy is still in force, and in this Strategy there is a text that says that we should have a nuclear capacity of 2000 megawatts. You threw us in touch again, as they say, using the Prime Minister's expressions. Colleagues, why you needed the decision after the referendum then to present to the National Assembly on 27 February 2013 and to take a decision. The solution is with the question that was asked in the referendum: to develop nuclear energy in the Republic of Bulgaria by building a new nuclear power plant? You know, at the time, the decision was... not............................................................ Then we told you that this is not the right way to ask the question, it is not clear. Then you had the National Assembly and the public vote not to have a nuclear power plant. Not just to not have a nuclear power plant, but not to develop nuclear energy. This is where I tell you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has always been against nuclear energy. The decisions taken in 2005, the Strategy Bulgaria had then, the decisions we made on the basis of those conclusions from the European Commission that today there had to be a closed order of capacities that pollute the environment. [[Sighs]] What cast chambers we have here, colleagues. What are we doing with Brikel? What's going on with Bobov dol? Where are we with Ruse? If we had then made decisions, there was no or there was a clear strategy for the development of energy in Bulgaria, today one of the blocks would have become operational in 2016 - 2017, colleagues. When there is no long-term strategy, when there is no consistent policy, there is no continuity and there is no national responsible position, there are laws that we need to support today. I remember I had a fellow construction engineer, he was sick. I asked him to see a doctor. He said, "When I know what kind of engineer I am, I'm afraid to go to the doctor." With such constructors who today teach in different schools and train our children, and then we come to the conclusion that the sites were not fit... It's nobody's fault! Dear colleagues, GERB should clearly declare from this tribune will we develop nuclear energy in Bulgaria? After that 402 million. I ask myself the question: do you have a sense of responsibility to stand up and say from this tribune that we will pay more? Guys, are we gonna pay more?! We'll pay! We ask ourselves: if all MPs were so responsible, this room would now be full and everyone with responsibility would think why today we are giving NEC 402 million euros of taxpayers' money and where will NEK pay them? Once again, I say to you: the lack of clarity, the declaration of all political powers how and how we will develop energy in Bulgaria, brings us to these discussions, to these thoughtless speeches from this platform. Colleagues, energy is not the part of the economic development of Bulgaria where you can make a decision today, but tomorrow to give up this decision. The solutions must be consistent, based on those capacities that are necessary for the development of Bulgaria's economy. The decisions must be based on the economic growth that Bulgaria expects should be nationally responsible. Therefore, colleagues, we must support this bill, so that we do not accumulate any further funds that we will not have to pay. If you were forward-looking, if you were governors, you would have predicted that with those claps of certain nuclear power producers, that today we would get to the point that we have to pay these funds. We should have prepared in advance, paid them and then we would not need to discuss today the question: whether the European Union will ratify this document, whether we will accumulate more interest in three days, four days, five days or so. I call on you, colleagues, first of all, to conclude with this Bill, then I propose that the Council of Ministers or the Energy Commission in the National Assembly should sit down and, within this month, come up with a clear strategy, a clear vision for the development of energy in Bulgaria and apropo, precisely and clearly GERB to say to each other, to declare clearly what they intend to do with nuclear energy in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u122	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! When someone says that everyone is guilty and everyone has sinned and become unnecessary, usually the presumption is that he is the most guilty and therefore has no little responsibility for what is happening. I will make a statement not as global as all other colleagues, as we have a specific bill, we are outside the topic of debate, the good and evil forces in foreign policy. In this spirit, I would like to ask the Minister a few questions. Undoubtedly, NEK needs support because of its poor financial situation. Undoubtedly, this poor financial condition is the result of numerous management decisions that have been taken at political level. The State has a direct responsibility through the governments they have managed, it is absolutely normal for such aid to be granted to NEK. It is perfectly normal for her to be requited as well. However, the question I would like to ask is: why does the State not investigate the possibility that this compensation is not in the form of State aid but in the form of payment of those costs which NEC has incurred in favour of the State? I remind you that the project, which officially made the millionaire the then leader of the DPS and now candidate for President Mr. Ahmed Dogan, where the sums, to note, for public infrastructure, are comparable to those we pay today for Belene. I would be delighted if the Minister of Finance is here, because this is not just a matter of energy. This Law we are looking at is equally related to the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, the Ministry of Finance is a party to it in the Law itself. The question to which I would like to hear an answer and possibly make similar proposals between first and second reading is: whether the Ministry of Energy, respectively the Ministry of Finance, by the way, with Mr. Karakachanov, we have just such an submitted inquiry into parliamentary control, the time has not come for us to be answered by the Minister of Finance, whether the State is being investigated the possibility of simply paying back this public infrastructure which NEK has built, and thus avoiding the debate on State aid, the need for negotiations with the European Commission and so on? That's my statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor.]] Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I propose a roll call procedure. Given the importance of the vote, I would like to establish the existing quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Name check. Aidoan Mutalib Ali - absent Ayhan Ahmed Etem - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Hristov Metodiev - absent Aliosman Ibraim Imamov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Ana Georgieva Barakova - absent Angel Petrov Naydenov - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Angelov Dolapchiev - here Antony Antonyev Trenchev - absent Atanas Zafirov Zafirov - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Atanasov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Atanas Todorov Merdjanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Boyka Grozeva Marinska - absent Boris Borisov Stanimirov - absent Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Lyubenov Velikov - here Borislav Mihailov Borisov - absent Borislav Raychov Milanov - here Borislav Sabinov Iglev - absent Bunyamin Hussein Hassan - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Lubenov Pavlov - here Valentin Nikolov Ivanov - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Velizar Penkov Enchev - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Ventsislav Yordanov Kaimakanov - absent Vili Mladenov Lilkov - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Simeonova Georgieva - here Georg Danielov Georgiev - here Georgi Alexandrov Kovachev - absent Georgi Ivanov Andonov - absent Georgi Nedkov Kuchukov - here Georgi Nikolov Nedev - here Georgi Stoyanov Kadiev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Todorov Bozhinov - here Georgi Chavdarov Anastasov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - here Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Grozdan Spasov Karadzhov - here Gunay Hewesmen Hughesmen - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Yordanova Panayotova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dimitar Angelov Gorov - absent Dimitar Andreev Delchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Grigorov Shishkov - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Kirilov Bajraktarov - here Dimitar Krumov Tanev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Spasov Dimitrov - absent Dimitar Stoyanov Dubov - absent Dimitar Tanev Tanev - here Dobrin Nenov Danev - here Dobromir Prodanov Prodanov - here Doncho Spasov Baxanov - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Durhan Mehmed Mustafa - here Evgeni Dimitrov Stoev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Emil Dimitrov Raynov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Erdingh Ismail Hajrula - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimitrov Stoynov - here Ivan Kirilov Ivanov - here Ivan Kostadinov Stankov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Penkov Ivanov - here Ivan Slavov Ivanov - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Stoev Cholakov - here Ivan Todorov Dimitrov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ilian Sashov Todorov - here Iliya Yankov Iliev - absent Irena Lubenova Sokolova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Yordan Georgiev Andonov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalina Petrova Balabanova - here Kamen Kostov Kostadinov - absent Katya Nikolaeva Popova - absent Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kiril Dobrev Dobrev - here Kiril Nikolaev Dobrev - absent Kiril Petrov Tsochev - here Kircho Georgiev Karagyov - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Korman Yakubov Ismailov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Kostadin Ivanov Markov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Donchev Karakachanov - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Petrov Petrov - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimira Arangelova Kovachka - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Kancho Yanev Filipov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lachezar Stamenov Nikiforov - here Lyubomir Vladimirov Vladimirov - absent Lutvi Ahmed Mestan - absent Magdalena Lambova Tasheva - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Mariana Vasileva Georgieva-Bencheva - absent Mariana Georgieva Todorova - here Mariana Radeva Boyadjieva - here Maria Shtereva Belova - here Martin Dimitrov Dimitrov - absent Martin Stoyanov Ivanov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Method Borisov Andreev - absent Mehmed Umer Ataman - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Mithat Sabri Metin - here Mikhail Parashkev Todorov - here Mikhail Raykov Mikov - absent Miho Dimitrov Mihov - here Musa Cemal Palev - absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mustafa Fahri Ahmed - absent Nayden Marinov Zelenogorski - here Nastimir Ananiev Ananiev - here Nevin Halil Hassan - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Neno Hristov Vlaikov - here Nikola Peichev Hadzhiyski - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Petar Vladislavov Slavov - here Petar Georgiev Kadiev - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Ivanov Petrov - absent Petar Kostadinov Petrov - here Petar Pandushev Chobanov - absent Peter Hristov Bekov - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - absent Plamen Veselinov Yordanov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Polina Krasteva Karastoyanova - here Radan Milenov Kanev - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Ralitsa Todorova Angelova - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Petrov Petrov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Dimitrov Hristov - here Rumen Dinev Zhelev - absent Rumen Ivanov Ivanov - absent Rumen Marinov Yonchev - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Ruchen Mehmet Riza - absent Saliha Hakif Emin - absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetlin Dimitrov Tanchev - here Svetoslav Dimitrov Belemezov - here Svilen Filipov Ivanov here. Additionally recorded: Altimir Adamov, Boris Stanimirov, Georgi Andonov, Volen Siderov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Borislav Iglev, Petar Petrov from Pf and Lachezar Ivanov. We can continue, and the continuation is expressed in voting on the Bill. The leading Commission has unanimously decided to adopt the Bill. In the Energy Committee, there are 1 vote, abstention, and with 12 votes in favour, also with a proposal for a plenary to vote for the proposed draft. We are voting for a bill for granting assistance for payment of debts to the National Electricity Company, No 602-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2016. 140 MPs voted: 132, against 2, abstention 6. The bill was adopted in the first vote
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u126	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u127	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure for proposals between first and second readings to be five days, i.e. it expires on Monday. On Tuesday, the Budget Committee will have an extraordinary meeting at 2:00 p.m. to see the Draft as early as Wednesday at second reading in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. We are voting on a proposal for a fixed period of five days for proposals between first and second readings. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We vote. Vote 148 MPs: 146 against 1, abstention 1. The deadline for proposals between the first and second votes is set at five days. We move on to the next item on the agenda, and it is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS, No 602-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 February 2015, adopted at the first vote on 3 June 2016. There's a report from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am proposing admission to the Chamber in relation to art. 46, para. 2 of the Rules for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of the following persons: Krasimir Tsipov, Deputy Minister, Petar Toshkov, State Expert in the Department of Regional Affairs and Law of the European Union
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u131	We are voting on the proposal made. Do you want a reverse proposal for other people? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u132	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Tsvetanov, I personally expected the Interior Minister to attend the debate on the second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Ministry of Interior Act, and not what you suggest, Mr. Tsvetanov to attend experts, Head of Sector, was the third person a junior expert? In addition to the Deputy Minister, I propose that no expert or technical person be allowed into the Chamber and that the Minister of Interior be invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u133	Consider it an invitation from the Home Secretary. Mr. Tsvetanov, would you like to add something to your proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u134	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u135	We are voting on the proposal made by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Those who do not want to be allowed to vote accordingly. They voted 101 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 9. The proposal is accepted..........................then invite the persons in the Chamber. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u136	The Law on the Ministry of the Interior is amended and supplemented by the Act on the Ministry of the Interior. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u137	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of the Law, as well as the texts of the importer for § 1 and § 2 "all are fully supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 92, none, abstention 5. The name of the Law, as did § 1 and § 2 of the Commission's report, were adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u138	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it: (a) in the text before t. 1 at the end of the year, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (3) of the (b) points 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." prepared, committed or completed crimes; 2. threats to national security and violations of public policy; (c) c. 3 the words of the search party are deleted; (d) c. 4 the words (e) points 5 and 6 are repealed. 2. The creation of para. 2: A request may also be made by: 1. the authorities of pre-trial proceedings and the court; 2. another state or organisation under international treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u139	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u140	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I see no reason to change the texts of art. 9 from the current Act on the Ministry of Interior. Since the majority of those present have also supported the presence of experts from the Ministry, please take note. I will ask the head of the sector to take into account what it requires to be refined the texts of art. 9, after the current Law was adopted in the National Assembly of this term? What changed in the situation and what the change in art. Nine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u141	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't either.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u142	Aren't the experts gonna take credit for that?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u143	I'm asking for order in the court, Mr. Iankov. I shall put to the vote the text supported in principle by the importer for § 3, which is edited by the Commission and finds the appropriate place in its report. We are voting § 3 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u144	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u145	And it's § 4 to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u146	Paragraph 4 is to be dismissed.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u147	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal thus made to reject this paragraph is no coincidence. We were impressed that the proposal was trying to narrow the scope of the so-called operational and search activity. Clearly, this thing has raised our concerns for several reasons. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 138 of the Law is written that it works on certain principles, operational and search activities must be subject to certain principles. First of all, the existence of a well-developed system of legal norms, which in this case we see is being violated. Legality of the acts applied and the actions of officials, unconditional respect for those rules by officials, strict responsibility and so on, principles of respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens and their dignity. Unfortunately, the proposed texts make it clear that some of these principles disappear and are not respected. We do not know why we need to reduce the scope of operational and search activities, why certain activities have to disappear. At the same time, an element of opaqueness is created regarding the work of the Ministry of Interior services, which would to a large extent provoke the distrust of citizens. For this reason, we wanted the Commission, too, in the Chamber, if the importers could explain why this narrowing of the scope of the activities entering the operational search activity is necessary, I regret the tautology, but so we need to, and understand how it will contribute to improving the work of the Ministry of Interior's staff in carrying out their duties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 11 against 55, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u151	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which is fully supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 4 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u152	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u153	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5 supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 75, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u154	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following information is available in the 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: In the context of their voluntary cooperation, data may be provided by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office only after written consent of the assistants, in relation to specific criminal proceedings and subject to the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u155	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am making a concrete proposal to remove the text referred to in Paragraph I propose an al. 4 drop out because this text is unclear and could result in damage to operational work. What does "Danni" mean for individuals, on the occasion of their voluntary cooperation, can be provided by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office? What data will be provided "that this man is a collaborator of the services? Or: the authorities of pre-trial proceedings shall be interviewed by persons who are witnesses of certain facts and circumstances in the appropriate order in the PPC and shall not need to be known to the authorities of the investigation that these persons are collaborators of the services! In this way, they will be enlightened, regardless of the conditions here... their written consent. In my opinion, this text is dangerous to operational work. Very please, fellow Members, take a look at what I'm offering you - let this text be dismissed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u157	As a matter of fact, you're suggesting dropping out of para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u158	Yeah, on Al. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u159	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov to drop para. 4 of § 6. Vote 81 MPs: 13 against 14, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6 which has been edited by the Commission and found place in its report. We are voting § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 80 MPs: 76, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u160	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs: A new § 6a is being created: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created a new t. 10: ..10. training in vocational training and in initial vocational training of fire safety and population protection authorities. 2. A new paragraph 9 shall be inserted: The activities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 2, p. 10 are carried out at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u161	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u162	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we have made for the creation of a new § 6a concerns Section V of the Ministry of Interior Act, namely the provision of fire safety and fire protection, disasters and emergencies. In fact, in art. 17, para. 1 are listed: the activities of ensuring fire safety and fire protection, disasters and emergencies are carried out by the fire safety and population protection authorities under the terms and conditions of this Law and the Law on the Protection of Disasters. What we have proposed since in para. 2 which treats the activity under para. 1 takes place in nine points, we believe that vocational training must be laid down as a method of activities related to protecting the population from fires, disasters and so on. In this regard, I ask the Members of the National Assembly to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u163	Thank you, Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. The next proposal is identical with this, only it was made by Mr. Atanas Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u164	Proposal by the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs: To create § 6a: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 is created t. 10: ..10. training in vocational training and in initial vocational training of fire safety and population protection authorities. 2. The creation of para. 9. The activities referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 2, p. 10 are carried out at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u165	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote both proposals which are identical and not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 18, Against 34, abstention 30. The proposals have not been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u166	Proposal of the National Representative Haytov. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in points 1 and 3. The proposal under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall be read in conjunction with the proposal The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the 1. In para. 2 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." State fire control; 2. In para. 7 the word "Instructions" is replaced by "Instruction."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u167	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with its corresponding content on its report. Vote 80 MPs: 78, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u168	Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetanov, made in accordance with the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 The order and the organization for the implementation of the activity under para. 1 shall be determined by the Minister of Interior's instructions.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u169	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Belemezov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, examining the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Ministry of Interior Act, was held last Wednesday. In the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly were made a number of proposals which were not reasoned in the Commission and were not motivated as to why they were proposed. Accordingly, no maximum consensus on their adoption is sought. In accordance with these proposals, as this is the first of them, we would like to receive detailed information and reasons for the adoption of such a proposal so that each of the Members of the National Assembly in this House, which is not fully aware of the report, can be informed and be able to take an informed decision on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Belemezov. - What's the line? Come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I think that the logic of our proposal to get the text proposed by the importer, and it has never become clear who the importer is after all, is extremely sustained. To my surprise, Mr. Tsvetanov, as President of the Commission, submitted a proposal which largely discourages proposals from the Ministry, of course, to our delight, because this whole reform was contained in these texts here, i.e. the structure of the Ministry of Interior. To our surprise, we see that again the thesis is being maintained to disappear from the structure of the Ministry of Interior. Indeed, we believe that the need for such a service has not dropped out of the structure of the Ministry of Interior at all, because security of information can best be protected precisely from the existing structures of the Ministry. Even more serious is the question of what will happen to those employees who will cease to be under contract with the Ministry of Interior. It is evident that they are intended in some way to be either reassigned or transferred, but to a large extent the danger of compromising the information exists because the transfer from one office to another creates, of course, the corresponding difficulties. The main thing in this case, and most importantly, is that, if I can call it that, this is the case with the texts that are being adopted. I am proposing accordingly. The last words of Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 8 shall be dropped:....... Special courier service.................................................................................. and the Special courier service........................................................................................................................................................... [[Heckling]] Paragraph 8. We're looking at §8 right now, aren't we?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u173	But not by importer. There is a Commission proposal to create a new paragraph...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u174	I'm speaking on all the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u175	And you're also speaking about future texts. That's good.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u176	Not for futures under §8...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u177	We haven't reached §8 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u178	Our proposal is...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u179	So, okay, you're talking about the next paragraph. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u180	It is also § 8, Mr. Chairman. Our proposal and the offer of the importer to drop out...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u181	Are you following the Commission report?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u182	The committee has adopted...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u183	There's no such proposal. There is a proposal to create a new § 8 as a result of Mr. Tsvetanov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u184	We have a proposal from MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs § 8 to drop out. So I don't take the word twice...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u185	That's exactly what I told you, so speak now on this future paragraph, no problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u186	Of course, that's what I'm doing right now. At the very least, save the people's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u187	Yes, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u188	If you want me to stop speaking so I can go out again.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u189	Yes, you are!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u190	Yeah, that's really what I'm gonna do. Thanks for the note. I'll go out one more time. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u191	On the proposal to create a new § 8? [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] You don't have that kind of offer here. [[Heckling]] Please follow the Commission report and what is being debated! Please, really. We didn't get to that paragraph. [[The National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] We didn't get to that paragraph. In the way of leading for what?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u192	I'm using the ability to conduct a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u193	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u194	Mr. Glauchev, you do not allow a colleague who takes the floor on the specific texts of the report to develop...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u195	What happens in the next paragraph?! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u196	...to develop his vision. [[Laughter and lines.]] I take a procedure in the manner of conduct, and you are again on what I am talking about, using the possibility of more force in the microphone that you have, creating a bad atmosphere for the way you conduct the debates. [[The President laughs.]] Mr. Glauchev, we have had many claims to you, please respect...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u197	That one more or less, what's the big deal?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u198	...and give everyone a chance to say what they have to say, share it.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u199	Oh, there are rules. Sorry. Everyone has anything to say, if you want to say what they want to say, excuse me...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u200	Now, do you want me to remind you of how you have broken the Rules and only thanks to the majority you have, you are still in charge of plenary. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u201	Yes, thank you, Mr. Iankov, but I have a request to you by speaking, to keep track of which paragraph the debate is under. [[Applause from GERB.]] If you want, take a look at this: Create a new §8. It's Mr. Tsvetanov's offer, and you're talking about the next Paragraph 8. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's vote on the creation of a new §8 proposed by Mr. Tsvetanov and then you can say whatever you want, as you say, but I won't let you say whatever you want. We are voting § 8 on the Commission report. This is a Commission proposal to create a new paragraph. We are voting on the Commission's proposal. Vote 85 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 4. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u202	He's already spoken.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u203	It was a procedure in the manner of conduct. It wasn't really a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u204	Explain the Rules of Procedure to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u205	There's a lot of things I need to explain to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u206	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against it because the proposal made again is for the Ministry of Interior Act to have instructions from the Minister of Interior, which is not clear what parameters it will be and it is a legislative act which can actually distort the very philosophy of the Law and the texts in it. During the meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Deputy Minister, who clearly explained some of Mr. Haytov's texts, explained that he currently has over 100 orders and it is better to lead the Ministry by instruction. I am against regulations which Minister Rumyana Bachvarova will issue and this leadership.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u207	This is not the subject of our meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u208	This time it's on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u209	And this Law should be sufficiently comprehensive and regulate the work of the Ministry and not allow, including other management of the Ministry, to change instructions and regulations. To my surprise, this was proposed by Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who understands perfectly the possibilities of such a text in the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u210	Thank you, Mr. Yankov, and for quickly returning to the text we are discussing. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsvetanov, for § 7 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u211	Paragraph 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u212	Are there any speeches? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u213	What's the number?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u214	Which becomes Paragraph 9 of the Commission's report. Next is the paragraph you spoke about. Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Iankov, under §7 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u215	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take note of the change of the Law and the dropping of the Law is the first text that makes it clear that the Special Courier Service will no longer be in the Ministry of Interior. We have received an explanation, which is very trivial in view of the better work, the seat of the Special Courier Service is in the State Commission DXI. What does the Special Courier Service have to do with DXI is unclear. What exactly are we gonna... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Yeah, yeah! I have explained to you why I am taking this paragraph. [[Strong noise and calls from GERB.]] And please listen to what I have to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u216	As long as it's §7 by importer, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u217	It was clarified by the importers from the Ministry of Interior, in view of the upcoming Presidency in the following year, that better synchronization of the work of this courier service, only that in the texts of this Draft Amendment and Supplement is proposed and a little later you will see the creation of a state enterprise, which gives a prerequisite for more commitment to the task force. As set out in the Law, handling personal data and information specific to the work of the Ministry of Interior, it is not clear how it will lead to better interaction between the units and the exchange of information without the Special Courier Service being within the Ministry of Interior. She was, of course, in the Ministry of Transport, now how effective her work will be in the new office. Rather, the Minister of Interior is trying to ease his work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u218	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there lines? Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u219	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Iankov, please, let us stick to the Commission report, because we are currently at § 7, and you are talking about § 17. The time will come when you will have the opportunity to actually take an attitude, and my request is that we still adhere to the principles that we have built in plenary when there is a report, to speak essentially on the texts we adopt, and every single parliamentary group with its representatives in the relevant committees has had the opportunity to take an attitude when looking at the second reading report. And let me just remind my fellow MPs that when the report at second reading was seen in the Commission, colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria left and they did not really participate in the debate. Perhaps now they want to do exactly what they missed then, but you simply had to attend the Commission so that we could actually move faster and more effectively today on the texts that we should adopt in the Ministry of Interior Act at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u220	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Will you use your right to the back? No. It was more of a way of keeping it, but you threatened to ask me for my resignation, and I'm already letting you talk whatever you want. [[Radio.]] Paragraph 7 of the importing text is fully supported and becomes § 9 in the Commission's report. Please vote § 9 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted. Next is § 8 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u221	According to § 8.. a proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The main structures of the Ministry of Interior are: 1. the main directorates; 2. the district directorates; 3. Specialized Counter-Terrorism Task Force; 4. Homeland Security Directorate; 5. Migration Directorate; 6. Directorate of International Operational Cooperation 7. the Directorates of the General and Specialized Administration; 8. The Academy of the Ministry of Interior; 9. The Medical Institute of the Ministry of Interior; 10. the research and research-appliances. 2. In para. 2 after the word "Activities" is added "Communication and Information Systems" and the words "Special Courier Service" and the comma after them are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u222	You have the floor to speak. [[Noise and lines.]] Assuming you said that then, yes, well, thank you. Are there any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. [[Heckling]] The same is the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. We are voting on both proposals as they are identical. Vote 88 MPs: 16 against 62, abstention 10. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8 which is generally supported by the Commission and becomes § 10 after its amendment. We are voting § 10 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 5. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted. Next is § 9 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u223	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u224	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting on § 9 by importer, fully supported by the Commission and becoming § 11 in its report. We are voting § 11 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 3. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u225	According to § 10 the proposal of the MP Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and § 10 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u226	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u227	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The vote on this paragraph is extremely important because of all the parliamentary groups it is proposed that § 10 be rejected. This is an extremely important vote because it shows how we are dealing here today with legitimizing the failure of a bill that aimed at reforming the Ministry of Interior, but in fact created huge chaos. It is important that MPs who have not understood so far know that the Ministry of Interior's proposal, which we are dealing with today and was wasting our time, aimed at creating inevitable chaos in the Ministry of Interior. It is joyous and cheerful, at least I so rely on it, that the President of the Commission and his parliamentary group have understood what is intended to be done, namely to destroy the system of the Ministry of Interior. The vote on this paragraph is the beginning of a series of votes showing the bankruptcy of the entire reform that has been proposed. Dear colleagues, everything we are doing today is the result of an infertile job, unknown to whom. It was never clear in the Commission who wrote this. In the end, the mind prevailed. I use the tribune to welcome that the reason in the MPs has prevailed and today all the texts that have created turmoil and chaos in this system will be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u229	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Ivanov, I can't agree with you, so I'm using the line to tell you that I don't think we're wasting our time. I do not think that the chaos created by the MPs with the proposals they have made under this paragraph helps it to be thorough. Yes, you do. Please explain exactly what you mean by using the term "reform." What reform do you see in this paragraph? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. You have three minutes to clarify the term "reform."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u231	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Iankov, unfortunately I have to admit that you are extremely right. [[Laughter at GERB.]] There is no reform today. On the contrary, there is currently a waste of the time of the MPs with the rejection of texts that destroyed the Ministry of Interior system. I wonder why we're dealing with this bill today. It had to be rejected and reasonable proposals were made to be drawn up by specialists who knew the subtleties of the system and the problems that plague it to date. You're very right, Mr. Yankov, when you ask the question what are we doing here today? At the moment, I said it and at the beginning, we cover with a fig leaf the failure of the management of the Ministry of Interior. My request is that no such experiments be conducted from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u232	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u233	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues from BSP left Bulgaria, your speeches have their value, however, for first reading. We're in second reading now. Let us stick to the report adopted by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. Let us not remind ourselves who did what in the security system, because we know how you adopted the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act in 2013, and not by the Internal Commission, but by the Temporary Commission, which was tasked with drafting the Rules of Organization and Activity of the Forty-second Parliament. There was no debate then, no one asked experts or politicians. You see, at the moment, we have made sure that there is really a consensus.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u234	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u235	The procedure is to be able to speak on the substance of the bill that we are looking at at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u236	So you're suggesting an end to the debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u237	Yeah, drop the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u238	That's having a vice-president...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u239	A reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting for an end to the debate on paragraph - § 10 by importer. Vote 89 MPs: 85 against 4, no abstentions. The debate is closed. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal to reject § 10 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Paragraph 10 is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u240	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal by Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs: In § 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 point (b) shall be amended as follows: (b) (i.e. 6 after the word the company is comma and the transfer across the state border of individuals or groups of people, as well as unauthorised assistance of migrants to cross the territory of the country or to remain in it, shall be added; The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, supported in principle by the Commission. Proposal by Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of Parliament in § 11 concerning art. 39, point 3, drop it. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 11: 2. A t is created. 4. "4." Paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be inserted: The Directorate-General for Fire Safety and Population Protection shall establish a Directorate for National System 112 and a structure for ensuring continuous, rapid and free access to emergency services for emergency services. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 et c. 2 concerning para. 7 and does not support it by t. 2 concerning para. 6. Proposal by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, made according to the order of art. 80, para. 4 t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "organised criminal activity' and the comma in front of them shall be deleted. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the text before t. 1 the words of local and transnational criminal entities shall be deleted; (b) c. 6 after the word the company is comma and the transfer across the border of individual persons or groups of people is added, as well as helping foreigners to reside or pass through the country; 3. In para. The second sentence is created: "The territorial units of the Directorate-General for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population" are legal entities. 4. The creation of para. 6: Other than those referred to in paragraph 1 (a) (i) and (ii) of this Article, the following shall be added: 2 DGBOP shall carry out the activities under art. 6, para. 1, t. 1-3, 6-9 independently and in interaction with other state authorities and with regard to corruption in state authorities and money laundering, computer crimes or crimes committed in or through computer networks and systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u241	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 10, Against 14, 70 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: for 3, against 58, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the part of the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Stefan Kenov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 2, para. 6 of the offer. We are voting for an unsupported proposal by Stefan Kenov. Vote 89 MPs: 5 against 34, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 11 by importer, edited by the Commission, which shall become § 12 in its report. We are voting § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 5. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u242	Under § 12, there is a proposal of the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov § 12 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 41 The Minister of Interior may order an official from the main directorates to perform the functions under art. 34b, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u243	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote proposals made by the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, as well as by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov, who are not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 8 against 53, abstention 23. The proposals have not been accepted. We are voting § 13 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u244	According to § 13 there is a proposal of the MP Krasimir Karakachanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Svetoslav Belemezov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs: In § 13, Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the following paragraphs shall be added: 41b, para. 6 After the words: the words are added: the representatives of industry organizations. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u245	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 13 against 12, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 13. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Paragraph 13 by importer is unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u246	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the National Representative Atanas Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Atanas Atanasov § 14 to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 43 The Minister of Interior may order an official from the Regional Directorates to perform the functions under art. 34b, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u247	Statements? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's one of the few rejected proposals I've made. I just want to fix your attention. In practice, this and another text create about 35 new administrative states at the Ministry of Interior, which are absolutely unnecessary. Take what you want. However, we are talking about cutting administrative numbers. On the contrary, new ones are being created here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u250	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, new staff are not created here, but only functions are assigned by order of the Minister of the Interior. Let's make a difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u251	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Merdjanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take the floor for a line. Colleague Atanasov, essentially you are right, but you should give what you need and thank Mr. Tsvetanov because he practically saved this Project of Law from a complete disaster because 90% of the texts have dropped out of the social package as well as the planned administrative reform. Here you can not not be given due to Mr. Tsvetanov, with his experience as Minister of the Ministry of Interior [[noise and lines]] because he actually managed to deliver the employees of the Ministry of Interior from an extremely shameful and unfavorable situation. If it were to be correct and honest the importers in the face of Mrs. Bachvarova, the most reasonable way was to withdraw this bill. Further on, there are a number of texts that rather suggest that there has been a deal about creating necessary structures to take on certain types of activities for certain personal or group interests. In this sense Mr. Atanasov, Mr. Tsvetanov's proposal was a lifeline, aware of the danger of creating new administrative posts which would have further aggravated the financial situation of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u253	Thank you, dear Mr. Merdjanov. Is there a third line? No. You're not going to use your right to dodge, Mr. Atanasov. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Merdjanov and a group of MPs, as well as the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov. The two proposals are the same and are not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 10, Against 41, abstention 37. The proposals have not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission for § 14 on the Commission report. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u254	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Merdjanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u255	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Merdjanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 13 against 49, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 15, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 1. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u256	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words 37, para. 1, t. 4-7s and the word "R' is replaced by "Administrative'. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: Their functions and activities in the Directorates under art. 37, para. 1, t. 4-6 and the directorates of the specialized administration can create territorial units, departments and sectors, and departments and sectors in the directorates of the general administration can create departments and sectors. 3. The creation of para. 5. The general administration's guidelines shall include the sections of art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Administration Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u257	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 16 on the Commission report. Vote 92 MPs: 87, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 16 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u258	Under § 17 there is a proposal of the MP Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1, in the text before t. 1 the words 37, para. 1, t. Four-seven-seven. 2. In para. 4 the words "Destination" "Special Courier Service" are replaced by "Communication and Information Systems."
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u259	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 17 on the Commission report. 86 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 6. Paragraph 17 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u260	Under § 18, there is a proposal by the National Representative Atanas Atanasov to drop § 18. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u261	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Atanas Atanasov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 22, against 39, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 18, which is supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 8. Paragraph 18 has been accepted. It's 2:00. Due to the running out of time scheduled for today's plenary day, I'm adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-21.u262	The next meeting was on 28 September 2016, Wednesday at 9.00 p.m. I thank Mr. Iankov for quickly entering the text and we were going well. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
