ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u1	Dear MPs, good afternoon! Please register. I shall open the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Visible from the adopted programme for the work of the National Assembly on points 6, 7 and 8 the reports have a different security mark, and according to art. 47 of our Rules, para. 1, t. 2 the meetings of the National Assembly are closed when documents classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information are discussed. This requires that we adopt a decision to hold a closed session. I shall put the proposal to the vote under paragraph 1. 6, 7 and 8 on the agenda for today to be under closed session conditions. Please vote. Vote 142 MPs: for 141, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Quaestors, report whether the conditions for a closed meeting have been met. That means no cameras, no national media microphones, no outsiders on the balconies. [[The Quaestor reports that everything has been brought into line with the requirements of the Rules. The sitting continues in closed session mode.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u2	Dear Members of the Parliament, the meeting continues with a next item in our weekly programme: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT AN ANNUAL REPORT ON THE SITUATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2015 Importer is the Council of Ministers. Reports have been received from the Committees to which the Annual Report in question has been allocated. We will first hear the report from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. He will introduce us to Mr. Plamen Tachev. Here you go, Mr. Tachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u3	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Let me introduce you to "COMMODITY" on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At a regular meeting held on 29 June 2016, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. In his exhibition Mr. Krastev stressed that the preparation of an annual report is an established practice to acquaint society and citizens with the state of national security. Notes that the adoption of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System introduces a regulatory basis for the preparation of a report on the state of national security, on the actions taken by state institutions, the expected trends in the development of risks, hazards and threats to policies that should be implemented by state institutions; The report is important for information and interaction between public institutions and civil society organisations and also for NATO and European Union structures. The Annual Report examines in detail different areas with assessment of risks and threats to national security, policies for protection, prevention and countering risks. The conclusions on the state of national security and development guidelines are set out in a separate section. The report takes into account the growing international terrorist activity, migration pressure as long-term risk, the need for reform of the Ministry of Interior system, increasing the capacity of the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs, Border Police and the intelligence authorities. In view of the terrorist activity in the region and close to our country, it should be actively opposed to turning into extremist formations. The priorities in the work of the Ministry of Interior for optimization of the structure and activity, increasing professional training, promoting preventive action in the fight against terrorism and radicalisation, crime in all its forms, limiting the damage from the smuggling of excise goods, VAT fraud, abuse of EU funds, ensuring security and public order, as well as effective protection of the population and infrastructure in the event of disasters, fires and other emergency situations are described. The report recommends the development of a Strategy for Countering the hybrid model of war, adopting an effective system for crisis management at national level, building personnel and organizational capacity of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. In conclusion, it is noted that in 2015 the Republic of Bulgaria carried out the necessary risk management activities in the field of national security. The transformation of the dangers of refugee and migration processes, from the acute geopolitical opposition to threats to national and international security, is not allowed. The Republic of Bulgaria performs its obligations to protect collective security within NATO and the EU. People's representatives Atanas Merdjanov, Krasimir Yankov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Atanas Atanasov took part in the debates. In the course of the discussion, the people's representative Mr. Merdjanov noted that the inconvenient work of the Ministry of Interior is part of the risks to national security. Mr. Iankov raised the issue of the late submission in mid-2016 of the Annual Report, which reports 2015. Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov analyzed the data on the structure and dynamics of crime. Mr. Atanasov pointed out the lack of motivation of the employees and adequate funding of the structures. Mr. Krastev explained that there is no legal deadline for submitting a report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 7 votes for the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. In view of the vote taken, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee proposes to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u4	Thank you, Mr. Tachev. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Before that, the clearance procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u5	Mr. Georgi Milenkov, Vice-President of the State Agency for Intelligence and Brigadier General Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Military Information Service, Mr. Krastev, we voted him; Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency for National Security and Mr. Borislav Garkov, Director of the Directorate of the State Agency for National Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u6	We are voting on Mr. Lazarov's proposal for admission into the Chamber of the relevant gentlemen who have a bearing on this point. We vote. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. External Commission.. Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u7	Madam President, colleagues! "COMMODITY" on Draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At a regular meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Decision on the adoption of a Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by the Secretary of the Security Council to the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev. The part "External Security Policy" was presented by Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov and the Permanent Secretary of the Foreign Ministry Vasily Takev. The report was prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and in implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 25 February 2011. The main objective of the report is to present the assessment of the state of national security and the actions taken by state institutions to address security threats. The trends for the development of national security risks and the policies that should be taken by state institutions to deal with them are outlined. The report contains assessments of domestic political events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict zones beyond our borders. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests. The work in sectoral policies to combat risks and threats to national security is presented. On the basis of conclusions drawn, national security prospects for 2016. The Republic of Bulgaria conducts a consistent policy to protect its national interests using the instruments of bilateral and multilateral cooperation, realizing the opportunities of active membership in the European Union, NATO, UN, OSCE and other international organisations. The report presents the actions and measures taken by the Bulgarian State to address the risks to national security of a foreign policy nature. In 2015, these challenges and threats arise mainly from the war in Syria and the instability in other regions of the world and some African countries that generated refugee and migration pressure on the countries of the European Union; the crisis in Ukraine and the change of the strategic security environment in Europe and in particular the Black Sea region. The increase of threats to the security of the Republic of Bulgaria and Europe with a terrorist and unconventional nature has been reported. The results related to the completion of the process for legal settlement of the existence and functioning of the intelligence and security services of the Republic of Bulgaria and in general of the system for protection of national security are indicated. The main tasks in implementing the adopted laws in the context of limited financial resources and accompanying measures to counter threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria are outlined. With regard to the conclusions and trends in the field of foreign security policy, the risks, threats and measures to deal with them internationally, regional and national are clearly identified. During the discussion recommendations were made on the scope and degree of analyticalness of the Report. The Members of the National Assembly expressed their views on specific texts of the Report. The expressed opinions and positions will be taken into account when preparing the next annual reports on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion held, given that the report achieves the objective of the Council of Ministers for objective awareness of the National Assembly and society of the results of the security policy carried out, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes abstentions proposed by the National Assembly to adopt by decision the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. A report from the Defence Committee. We will be introduced by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Miho Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u9	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dear Directors and Chiefs of Special Services! ♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At a regular meeting held on 9 June 2016, the Defence Committee discussed the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The meeting was attended by 16 MPs. The meeting was attended by Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers Georgi Krastev and Parliamentary Secretary Laura Kendova. The report and the reasons for it were presented by the Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev. Supplement to the exhibition made the Secretary of the Security Council Georgi Krastev. In the discussion of the bill took part the MPs Plamen Manushev, Miho Mihov, Hristo Gadzhev, Yanko Yankov, Atanas Zafirov, Milen Mihov and Korman Ismailov. The Minister of Defence and the Secretary of the Security Council also answered questions. In their speeches, the MPs united around the following. The Annual Report on the State of National Security very closely addresses aspects of the main elements of the national security system, as well as existing and emerging risks, dangers and threats to the country. The external security environment, both globally and regionally, has been analysed in depth. The risks and dangers to the national security of the country and the defence as a result of the change of the strategic environment in Europe and the Black Sea basin, caused by the increasing military capabilities of Russia, destabilization of Eastern Ukraine and countries of the Caucasus region. The response measures of NATO and the European Union to increase security along the eastern borders are also analysed. The impact on national security of the unprecedented migration pressure that Europe and the Balkans are subject to, the risks of disintegrating statehood in Middle East and North Africa, the increase of the dangers of terrorism and radicalism in all countries. The report contains assessments of domestic political events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict areas and in other countries. Complex and contradictory internal and external processes have been analysed which have had a significant impact on the state of national security. The activities carried out by ministries and departments in accordance with their functional obligations in connection with the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and sectoral strategies are basically presented. It is of the opinion that the report is not limited by assessments and actions in 2015, but also reflects the results of action taken at the beginning of May 2016, which is positive. The report estimates that the likelihood of a military conflict in Southeast Europe is limited, which is a signal that it is not impossible and suggests caution to the country's defence aspects. In this context, the report provides sufficient space for the implementation of the National Security Strategy in the field of defence, which is implemented through the National Defence Strategy, which has been updated in accordance with the changed Euro-Atlantic security environment and the new challenges. The importance and readiness of the government to implement the Program for the Development of Defence Powers of the Armed Forces adopted by the National Assembly 2020 (Program 2020) and the Plan for the Development of Armed Forces adopted by the Council of Ministers by 2020. The strategic objective of defence policy is to build within the available and estimated financial resources of a single set of interoperable armed forces capable of successfully carrying out their tasks on the three missions of the armed forces. As confirmation of these intentions in the National Security Status Report, The annual report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, adopted by the National Assembly on 20 May 2016, sets out the main positions and assessments given in the Annual Report on the state of defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. The negative trend of the defence ministry's budget cuts in recent years has been reversed, with the same being held at 1.35% of gross domestic product equal to the 2014 budget, which is a requirement of Programme 2020 and the NATO summit in Wales. The structure and composition of the armed forces within 37-40 thousand people were preserved, the construction of the first headquarters elements for the integration of NATO forces was launched, an intensive program for multinational exercises and trainings was implemented, and a strategic plan for the action of the country's armed forces for the protection of crises was developed. At the same time, it is taken into account that the planned 55 capacity targets 2013 and the preparation of the planned 50 formations due to insufficient funding and retention of the re-arming and modernisation process are not implemented under the schedule. The necessary useability of the forces has not been achieved and the ability to participate in joint operations with the Air and Naval Forces has been maintained, and the requirements of these basic criteria are approached only in the Ground Forces. The armed forces participated in NATO response forces, in the construction of multinational battle groups of the European Union, conducted 266 exercises and trainings, participated in 14 missions and operations abroad and in 182 operations in support of the population. The projects for modernisation according to needs and resources were prioritized, and the first two of the first (highest) priority projects were launched to acquire a new fighter plane and a new patrol ship. In the course of the speeches, critical remarks were also made by some MPs, which boil down to the exceptional constantity and unsatisfactory analyticalness of the report. It is proposed that the structure of the report should follow that of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, which would focus the findings on conclusions, generalizations and proposals to improve the level of national security resulting from the protection of the vital interests of the country and citizens. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 is comprehensive, full of alarming findings on the state of the elements of the national security system and realistic regarding the policies for improving the state of security of the country. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Defence Committee with 13 votes in favour, 3 votes in opposition, without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. I've reported it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u10	Thank you, General. Mihov. Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The report will introduce to you the President of the Commission the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov. Following is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u11	♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At its meeting held on 16 June 2016, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the reasons for the draft decision to adopt the annual report. The report was drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System and in implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by a decision of the National Assembly on 25 February 2011. It aims to present the state of national security, the main trends in risks, dangers and threats, as well as the actions taken by the government of the country to prevent, control and overcome the consequences of them. The report presents activities in sectoral policies regarding the external security environment, hybrid wars and other violations against the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria, the national security protection system, the financial security and defence sector and the management and activities of the security system structures. With the adoption in 2015 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, the Law on the State Intelligence Agency, the Law on the National Security Service and the Military Intelligence Act, the process of regulatory regulation of the activities of intelligence and security services has been completed, which lasted for more than 25 years. The necessary legal basis has been established for the future activities for strengthening and development of the institutions by the system for protection of national security in the context of the emergence of new ones, along with the existing dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Based on an assessment and conclusions from the state of the security environment, the report outlines the expectations and prospects for 2016. It indicates the need to develop a strategy for countering the hybrid model of war and to be harmonised with NATO and European Union documents in this area, as well as the construction of organizational, personnel and technical capacity for the functioning of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers and its secretariat, which are also entrusted with the functions of a national situation centre. The discussion of the report was attended by the MPs Miho Mihov, Atanas Merdjanov, Atanas Atanasov, Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. During the discussion the MPs made recommendations on the level of analyticalness of the report and the proposed countermeasures. They expressed their views and positions on specific activities in sectoral policies on the state of national security and the majority of the MPs supported the report. Following the discussion, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence funds and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 12 votes..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. There is no report from the Budget and Finance Committee. Following is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The report will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission, National Representative Daniela Saveklieva. Following is the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to your attention: "COMMODITY" under the Project Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee at its meeting, held on 6 July 2016, discussed and discussed the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13. The meeting was attended by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers, who presented the report. The report has been developed in three main sections. The first of them evaluates the risks, dangers and threats to our national security. Reasonably, as the most important in this section, our financial and economic security has been shown. Our banking system has stability, superliquidity, profit growth and low credit activity. On the Bulgarian capital market there is a trend of more active demand and strengthening its role in the development of our economy. The programmes co-financed by the European Union remain a significant source of funds for economic development and administrative capacity. In 2015, it continued maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability as a necessary condition against the negative effects of the uncertain external economic environment. GDP growth of 3% was reported. The average annual inflation rate was 1.1%. The total number of employees increased by 0.4% and labour productivity by 2.6%. Direct foreign investment reached 1,580 million. Euros. In the field of communications, risks of loss of significant European funds have been identified due to delays in key projects. In agriculture, a major risk to food security creates a reduction in the volume of agricultural production. A source of risk in environmental legislation is negative practices in separate collection and recycling of waste, soil pollution with persistent organic pollutants, illegal mining of underground riches. Factors with a lasting negative impact on social security, which continued to operate in 2015 are: negative demographic processes, poor education of a large percentage of the Bulgarian population, increasing the number of socially excluded persons and diversification of marginalized groups, problems in traditional religions. A major problem in health is the growing imbalance between the increasing needs of the population and the available resources of the health system. A serious problem is the poor collection of health contributions and the high percentage of non-participants in the insurance process. The increased migration pressure is a major risk to the country's security and therefore a major priority in the activities of the competent state authorities. The risks and threats to our country's energy security are caused by the high degree of dependence on one supplier of energy resources, the lack of interconnection between Bulgaria and neighbouring countries, the high inter-company debt in the energy sector. Security in internal order is violated by tax fraud and smuggling; investment of suspicious capital; organised crime; drug trafficking; counterfeiting of electronic payment instruments; the use of non-real identity documents; significant domestic crime. The second main section of the report covers the policies for protection of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the sector of financial and economic security, the most important place is the prevention and countering corruption. In all sectors, measures have been taken against corruption practices. As regards financial stability, a number of measures have been taken in 2015 to improve supervision, legislation and return to confidence in the banking sector. In relation to fiscal stability, structural and functional reform programmes have been developed. Measures were taken to prevent and combat customs, tax and insurance fraud, which led to higher collection of duties, taxes and compulsory social security contributions. The implementation of economic security, as part of the country's national security, is carried out with the implementation of the government's common programme priority for achieving growth and modernisation of the economy. Work is being done to build a competitive economy that will ensure the country's growth and development, promoting and accelerating investment and effective external economic cooperation. The third main section of the report draws conclusions on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and sets out the guidelines for development under sectoral policies. The main tasks in the individual sectors are outlined to protect national security in the implementation of the adopted laws under the conditions of limited financial resources. In particular, in the field of financial and economic security is expected in 2016 growth of the Bulgarian economy of 2.1%; employment growth to 0.5%; unemployment reduction to 8.6%. The current account balance to remain positive within 1,5-2% of GDP and the flow of foreign direct investments to stabilize as a share of GDP around 3.7%. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Offers the National Assembly to take the following ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 87, para. 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u14	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. The report will introduce you to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u15	Mr. President, honourable Members: "COMMODITY" on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At its meeting held on 8 June 2016, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The draft decision to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The annual report examines in depth the state of national security in various areas. The report notes in the section "Justice" that in 2015 a number of legislative amendments were initiated and adopted to create conditions for the implementation of judicial reform, indicating the amendments adopted by the National Assembly in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In line with the adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the government has decided to establish a Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing judicial reform as a permanent advisory body of the Council of Ministers. The establishment of this Council is expected to bring together the efforts of the judiciary and executive authorities, the academic community and the non-governmental sector to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy. The report takes into account the preservation of a negative trend in corruption in the executive, local and judiciary, which has a negative impact on living conditions as well as democracy. In conclusion, it is noted that the necessary national security risk management activities were carried out in 2015 both in terms of collective security within NATO and the European Union and in terms of preserving internal stability. In the course of the discussion Mr. Haytov noted that the Security Council of the Council of Ministers has done serious work. He asked for clarification on the period within which the Council of Ministers should submit the report, pointing out that it is incorrect to submit a report in the middle of the year, which presents a report for the past year, as it limits the possibility of MPs making findings, recommendations, as well as legislative initiatives to improve the functioning of the entire security system in the country. In response, Mr. Krastev pointed out that there is no time limit in the law and that the delay actually led to a positive result because the data presented in the report is final, not forecast. He noted that the work on the next report has already begun. Mr. Haytov proposed an editorial addition to the draft decision, namely: after the word. The proposal was not supported by the MPs. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 10 votes for the National Security in 2015, No 602-03-13, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016, supported the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. In view of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes to the National Assembly the following: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy follows. The report will be presented to you by the Vice-President of the Commission Svetlana Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u17	♪ I can't believe on a draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting held on 8 June 2016 discussed and discussed a draft decision to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. In the matter of scope of competence of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is information on certain aspects of social security. In the first Section of the National Security Assessment of the Risks, Threats and Threats of the Republic of Bulgaria there are summarised findings on the factors with long-term negative impact on social security, among which are negative demographic processes, low education among a high percentage of the population, the pressure of the economic crisis and its impact on the situation of marginalized communities, the migration crisis, the increasing number of socially excluded persons, an increase in people with difficulty in implementing the labour market. The report stresses that the demographic crisis leads to significant regional economic imbalances. As a result, the territorial distribution of the population is uneven, which has an adverse impact on the economic development of the country. Ageing of the population affects the annual coefficient of age dependence, which shows how many people in active age per person of dependent ages (less than 15 years and above 65 years). A worrying trend of a steady increase in the annual age dependency ratio (2005 was 44,5 percent, increased to 51.2 percent in 2014). The demographic replacement factor, which shows the ratio between the number of working age and the number of working age, shows another alarming trend in reducing the reproduction of the working population. During In 2001, every 100 persons coming from a working age were replaced by 124 persons entering a working age, while in 2014, those entering a working age were 64 per 100 going out. The report quotes the forecasts of the World Bank, the European Commission, Eurostat and the National Statistical Institute, which point to persistent worrying trends for the country's population. According to a World Bank report by 2050, one in three Bulgarians is expected to be older than 65 years and only one in two will be at a working age, which is a contraction of the workforce by nearly 40 percent. This will lead to an increase in public expenditure as a share of gross domestic product. The second section of the National Security Protection Policy contains information on employment policies, the improvement of qualification and demographic issues held in 2015. Active labour market policy during the accounting year is aimed at supporting sustainable economic growth and job creation. It is implemented through the implementation of the National Employment Promotion Plan by means of the European Structural and Investment Funds. Changes have been adopted in the Employment Promotion Act for improving employment policy regulations in three main areas: increasing efficiency in working with unemployed persons; increasing the budget for active policies and more effective targeting of funds towards disadvantaged groups; reforming public employment services in order to improve the services provided. The third section outlines the policy guidelines in the following directions for the following period: increasing the quality of the workforce; limiting unemployment and involvement in employment of representatives of the unequal groups on the labour market; developing social dialogue; continuing implementation of the reform of the pension system and ensuring its financial sustainability; improving the quality and effectiveness of control of compliance with labour legislation; speeding up the process of deinstitutionalisation in specialized institutions for elderly people with disabilities; improving the situation of Roma. Particular attention is paid to the need to implement an integrated approach and cross-sectoral cooperation to achieve the objectives of the updated demographic development strategy for the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030. In the subsequent discussion, the People's Representative Mariana Todorova of the Parliamentary Group of "ABV" expressed the opinion that the report is comprehensive and comprehensive, but it lacks an assessment and analysis of poverty and inequality as key issues for national security. Mrs. Todorova believes that the report should contain an analysis of the trends for possible radicalisation of minorities as a result of poverty and inequality and that it should be sought to overcome this correlation not only with social policy. People's representative from the Parliamentary Group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" Dr. Hasan Ademov noted as a positive fact the serious analysis of demographic challenges for national security, which are a very important element of the activities of all governments because of the specifics of demographic policy. Demographic policy is a horizontal policy requiring complex action to address comprehensive challenges. According to the MP, solving social challenges would ensure higher gross domestic product, stability, higher employment levels, better incomes and possible reduction of migration processes. People's representative from the Parliamentary Group "Patriotic Front" Dimitar Bajraktarov believes that the report lacks information about the process of Roma integration, which is an important element of national security. According to Mr. Bajraktarov, administrative monitoring reports on Roma for 2014 and 2015 show an alarming trend for disturbing unemployment among ethnic groups due to low qualifications. In response Mr. Georgi Krastev explained that the annual report on the state of national security is generalising and contains references to the other reports on individual policies. After the end of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Labour and Social Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u18	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. A report from the Energy Commission is following. It will be introduced to the President of the Commission by the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. The next report belongs to the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u19	♪ I can't believe On the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Energy: Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, Mr. Zhecho Stankov and Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, Deputy Energy Ministers. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The content of the report in relation to the sector............................................................................................. The actions taken by the government in 2015 are indicated and the steps will be taken in the coming periods. The main risk identified is Bulgaria's dependence on only one source of supply of energy resources at the moment. Another risk is the inter-company debt and the financial destabilisation of the sector. In terms of covering the first risk, the government has taken a series of measures relating to diversification of natural gas sources and routes. One of Bulgaria's most serious problems in this direction is the lack of interconnection between Bulgaria and neighbouring countries. At the moment, efforts are being made to build this infrastructure. These interconnections will enable diversification of natural gas sources and routes. These are the interconnectors: with Greece, Romania, Serbia and Turkey. The report noted the modernisation and rehabilitation of the transit transmission network. Four compressor stations were upgraded: Ihtiman, Strandzha, Lozenets and Petrich. With regard to inter-company debt, financial problems and financial imbalances in the sector, changes in legislation aimed at reducing the deficit in the system have been made. The process of full liberalisation of the electricity market remains a priority. On the basis of the discussion and voting on the following results, the Committee on Energy proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Following is a report from the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u21	♪ I can't believe on the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At its regular meeting on 15 June 2016, the Education and Science Committee examined the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers, Mr. Dian Stamatov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science and Mrs. Evgenia Kostadinova, Director of the Educational Programs and Educational Content Department at the Ministry of Education and Science. The annual report on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The report shall be submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. It has been developed in accordance with the National Security Strategy and follows its structure and priorities outlined therein. The aim of the Annual Report is to present an assessment of the general state of national security, policies that have been conducted and summarised conclusions and guidelines on the priority areas outlined. Mr. Krastev noted that the report does not represent a report on the implementation of the activities of individual institutions. The texts concerning education provide basic findings on the situation in the sector, the activities carried out and the measures taken. The report refers to the adoption of the Pre-school and School Education Act as a major point in the sector of Education. During the discussion, the MPs noted that the inclusion of education in the report on the state of our country's national security shows that it is an important element of this security. The policies aimed at Bulgarians abroad and in particular working with Bulgarian schools abroad were discussed. A recommendation was made for greater specificity and precision in the preparation of the report, as well as the identification of concrete future steps to overcome negative findings. After a vote with results: the National Assembly proposed to adopt the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 June 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u22	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. With the report of the Committee on Health we will be acquainted with its President, the national representative Daniela Daritkova. Following that report by the Environment and Water Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At its regular meeting on 23 June 2016, the Health Commission examined the draft decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health, Dr. Adam Persenski, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient and non-governmental organizations. The report is drawn up in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System (promise, SG No. 61 of 11.08.2015, in force from 01.11.2015) and in the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by a decision of the National Assembly on 25 February 2011. Its main aim is to present the assessment of the risks, dangers and threats of the executive power, the effectiveness and effectiveness of the national security policy in 2015 and the actions that the institutions plan to take in the next period. Information on certain health aspects falls within the competence of the Committee on Health. In the first Section, an assessment of the risks, dangers and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report shows that in recent years the Republic of Bulgaria has seen regression trends in the field of public health. Analysis of the data on the main health-demographic indicators shows that our country is currently facing serious national security challenges related to a high level of common and premature mortality, high maternal and infant mortality, high level of disability and long-term disability and low life expectancy in years, as well as in years of good health. The main causes of poor health performance are chronic non-infected diseases with the greatest relative proportion of cardiovascular diseases and malignancies and conditions occurring during pregnancy, birth and postpartum. Another serious problem is the poor collection of health insurance contributions and the high percentage of non-participants in the insurance process. The second Section of the Bulgarian National Security Protection Policy contains information on health policies. It is said that the Ministry of Health has taken measures to conduct a policy to ensure accessible and quality health by establishing rules for improving the quality of medical care, the control of medical activities and the effective use of the funds of the National Health Insurance Fund and making it an active funding and control body on behalf of the insured citizens. In 2015 the management of the Ministry of Health has taken targeted action to implement the priorities and measures of the Government's Programme for Sustainable Development of the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 "2018 in the field of health." In this regard, a package of strategic documents has been developed that reflect the vision and concrete steps by 2020 to reform the health system. In the third Section, the main conclusions on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the guidelines for development in the field of health are aimed at carrying out adequate changes in the system as an objectively necessary and urgent process in order to end the negative trends while minimizing the medical and social and economic risks so as to achieve higher stability and sustainable development of the national health system and fully meeting the health needs of the population. In the subsequent discussion, the public representative Dr. Daniela Daritkova raised questions about the procedure for preparing and coordinating the report in his part of health care and the participation of the portfolio ministry. There have been criticisms regarding factual inaccuracies in the report, a deficit of information on the readiness of emergency aid and other health structures directly related to national security. The lack of data on the activity of the surveillance of infectious diseases, the protection of the country against the import and spread of infections, the restriction of the occurrence of epidemics, the level of the immunization range of the population was highlighted. The Ministry of Health agreed with the comments and assurance that the opinions and positions expressed will be taken into account in the preparation of the next annual reports on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u24	Thank you, dear Dr. Daritkova. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water will introduce us to the people representative Zhivko Martinov. Here you go, Mr. Martinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u25	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on the Environment and Water, No 653-11-7 of 10 June 2016 on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At its regular meeting on 9 June 2016, the Environment and Water Commission examined the Draft Decision adopting the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. The annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 shall be proposed for adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 7, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The environmental security risks in 2015 are referred to as the damage to ecosystems and the services they provide to food, fuels, medical plants, genetic material, drinking water and others. The need to put the circular economy at the centre of efforts to make efficient use of resources is noted. The pressure caused by human activity on biodiversity is also indicated as a risk in the report. The main risks include climate change, emphasising the need for prevention. In 2015, pollution of the environment continued by industrial entities using insufficiently efficient treatment facilities, the use of solid fuels and increased road traffic in settlements causing increased air pollution. The failure to comply with environmental legislation leading to accidents as well as the problems with hydrotechnical facilities and the delay in projects related to the water cycle of settlements is also indicated. As a risk to the environment and human health also take into account the problems with waste, soil pollution and illegal mining of underground wealth. Last but not least, there is also the risk of investment interests for construction within the protected areas of parks and Natura 2000. The report attempts to achieve a higher level of awareness of citizens, their organisations and society as a whole for the implementation of the Security Strategy during the reporting and subsequent years. After the debates held, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting the Annual National Security Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u26	Thank you, Mr. Martinov. Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Vice-President of the Commission Irena Sokolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman: ♪ I can't believe on the draft Decision adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 30 June 2016, the Draft Decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015. The meeting was attended by Boyl Banov "Deputy Minister of Culture," and Georgi Krastev "Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers." The draft decision for the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. The annual report shall consist of three sections. The first section evaluates the security environment through the prism of defined national interests. The second section presents activities in sectoral policies to counter the risks and threats to national security. The third section gives the main conclusions on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the guidelines of development. It was noted that in the Annual Report there are different aspects that specifically concern the policy in the field of culture, but are not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, but from that of the Ministry of Education and Science, the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, which contribute with their activities to the strengthening of Bulgarian national culture both within the territory of the country and among the communities outside the country. The Deputy Minister of Culture Boel Banov took part in the policy of the Ministry of Culture for the Development of Culture and the Conservation of Cultural and Historical Heritage. Highlights the fight against illicit trafficking of values and the preservation of cultural heritage of states in war conflict areas with targeted and barbaric destruction of sites, as well as the cooperation with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the prosecution to strengthen administrative capacity and exchange of information. He also noted the interaction with municipalities and museums with an assignment for plans for the conservation and management of cultural sites of national and global importance. During the discussion, the MPs from BSP left Bulgaria raised questions about the period of submission of the annual report; about the legislative activity in the field of culture, the financing of the sector. Mr. Georgi Krastev and Mr. Boyl Banov took the matter in question. After a discussion, the Committee on Culture and Media with 8 votes for the National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015, No 602 03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u28	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sokolova. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government is final. Vice-President Petya Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe On the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 16 June 2016, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Draft Decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 602-03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 May 2016. Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the report and the draft decision took part in the Commission meeting. The report was prepared in implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by a decision of the National Assembly and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The report presents assessments of the risks, hazards and threats to the executive for the effectiveness and efficiency of national security policies and the actions taken by state institutions to address security threats. Analyses are also presented on the trends in the development of national security risks and the actions that state institutions plan to take in the next period to deal with them. The report contains assessments of domestic political and foreign policy events, processes of implementation of international projects and events in conflict zones outside the country's borders. The security environment is assessed in accordance with defined national interests, presenting the activities in sectoral policies to counter the risks and threats to national security. The results related to the completion of the process for legal settlement of the existence and functioning of the intelligence and security services of the Republic of Bulgaria and in general of the system for protection of national security are presented. The main tasks in implementing the adopted laws in the context of limited financial resources and accompanying measures to counter threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria are outlined. Based on the conclusions, the prospects for national security for 2016. In the course of the discussion, recommendations were made in the preparation of the next annual reports to analyse security policies in a regional and local aspect, paying attention to the structure and activity of local authorities and its impact in the area of security, examining the specific threats to individual municipalities and regions which are not covered by this report. The representative of the importer agreed with the comments and assurance that the opinions and positions expressed will be taken into account in the preparation of the next annual reports on the state of national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 8 votes for the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 602 03-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for adoption of the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015, No 602 03-13.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, from morning till night we are talking about national security and the challenges of our country. In view of the whole situation we are in, we are witnessing a debate on perhaps the most important report in this area without any representative of the Council of Ministers who is the importer of this Report. I think, Mr. Chairman, this is highly disrespectful to the National Assembly. I will allow myself to talk about the Report only in its part concerning economics and finance, and I can say that the National Security Report is anything else, but not what is expected in this area - statistics, the usual commitments and activities done by ministries that are secure in this area, including the Bulgarian National Bank and the Financial Supervision Commission, and of course certain intentions that are in the National Reform Programme. I would therefore like to ask who in the security sector has read this report in its part of finance and economic security? Apart from the nonsense it contains in this area, it is also full of contradictions and mutually exclusive conclusions and findings. I can give you a few examples. If it opens page five, you will see, and I quote, "For the last four years, there has been a trend reported........................................................................................................................................ Companies are increasing, which for the first time are offering their shares on the capital market and seeking funding from that company. Literally, the next paragraph says another: The total market capitalization of the Bulgarian financial exchange at the end of 2015 reached 8.6 billion, or 10.2% of the gross product by decreasing compared to 2014, which was 9.8 billion, or 11.7 of the gross domestic product. The development of the market during the year was mainly in a downward direction. Trade has been carried out in very low market liquidity, with this trend in the last few years deepening in 2015.. In one paragraph we report activity, growth, in the next paragraph we outline a negative trend. Which of the two findings in this report is true? With regard to banking security, the report reports that there is no significant risk and threats to the financial sector as well..banking and non-banking because the banking system, I quote, is in an enviable state.. stable and over-liquid and with sustainable growing profits. Possible liquidity problems of some banks, note, are due to rumors and targeted media attacks. In this regard, however, it is said that active action has been taken by the Financial Supervision Commission. Colleagues, we all know that the Financial Supervision Commission has no commitments regarding the banking sector and the regulation of banks in the country. The report reports an extremely low level of government debt and favourable prospects for economic growth in the medium term. Not a word about the country's growing foreign debt, both state and private. All decisions and legislative initiatives of the executive and legislative authorities are described in detail, but there is not a single word for the huge loan that was taken within 2015 and voted by the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly. I can also give an example of the situation in the funds received from the European programmes and the findings... Since I don't have much time, I will leave it for my colleagues, I will not give it up, but there the findings are radically different from the Prime Minister's claims on the huge successes the country has achieved at the end of the 2015 reporting period of the absorption of these funds. Read the findings. I think the Council of Ministers has accepted them and no one has bothered to read them. They're totally different from anything that's publicly claimed. Or, in general, the part of the Financial Sector is reported as risk-free. And since we are representatives of the opposition, you will say that this is our role to talk, to comment, I have taken the liberty of taking the report from the European Commission. You know that a warning mechanism has been adopted within the community for monitoring economic trends in countries. On the basis of this macroeconomic imbalances procedure in the country and the 2011 report, what did the European Commission say about our country? There are certain significant differences between banks, with a quarter of them at a loss, and for a third the return on assets is below the average for the whole system. There are deficiencies in the activities of the Bank's supervision. The situation of the non-banking sector is similar to the banking situation in which pension funds have a concentration of investments in groups of related parties, i.e. credit risk, and 50% of the insurance sector is practically concentrated in about 13% of all insurers. There is a very high financial indebtedness of businesses. A third of them are in danger of bankruptcy. It's the same for households. In other words, the financial sector is at increased risk and one of the main reasons for the deterioration of economic imbalances. A report and a finding by the European Commission, which is very different from the conclusions presented to us in the National Security Report. And so, quite naturally, we come to a decree of the Council of Ministers from the summer of this year on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, in which it is proposed, note that the sector "Financials" to fall from the list of strategic sites and activities relevant to national security, payment services, banking and insurance services, and the reason is that these activities are carried out by independent legal entities "BNB," the FSC with a view to protecting the public interest and so on. Needless to say, we have seen the capacity of the Ministry of Finance, BNB and the Financial Supervision Commission in the crisis 2014 and that they cannot protect the vital and important interests and functions in this sector. So the financial system is of no less importance to the national resource than everyone else, and you are proposing that it be excluded from the scope from now on. The only conclusion I can make is that someone is worried that special services have the opportunity to observe what is happening in this system. I expected to see a much more serious and thorough view of the social sphere. The increased risk of social collapse as a whole affects our society and Bulgaria, in my opinion, is facing total public chaos. The reason for this is the unmanageable processes of growing marginalization. The social exclusion of increasing groups of people affects more and more areas of our country and we are witnessing a number of conflicts in which both Garmen and Stara Zagora, if you want the civil arrests that took place in the country, and all this is based on reason for losing confidence in the institutions and the management resource that has power as a whole. In a word, the report in the part of the "Financials" and "Economics" is untenable and completely empty of content. In my opinion, he should return to work to meet the purpose and title he has placed before being discussed in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, reading it, the only conclusion I am making and which remains in me after this report is that it is the greatest risk to our country and stability is the very functioning and functioning of our own institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u32	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are.. People's representative Atanas Zafirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u33	If you could extend the time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u34	You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable gentlemen of special services! It's September 1st. Two thirds of the year have expired and we are debating and will adopt a document which aims to assess and draw conclusions on the state of the security environment and sectoral policies, to outline expectations and prospects for 2016. The logical question is: who needs this document at the end of the year for which it should serve? And if we do find some enthusiasts from society, because I will quote again, in the report the Council of Ministers informs the public about the risks and threats, the results of the security policy being conducted, so if such enthusiasts are found to try to read it, I am not talking about the experts here, because there is nothing familiar about the experts in this report, but I can bet that this so-called community will give up as soon as it sees the volume of the report. It is apparent that this material is of a volume far beyond the National Security Strategy itself. It contains a significant degree of analytical and I would even say doctrinal developments that make it at times difficult to read and difficult to perceive, and most likely and partly not quite accessible to the wide audience for which it should be intended. The risk and threat analysis, and for a period up to 2020, has also been carried out before the Strategy. It is hardly necessary to expand and develop to such an extent. It should be refined and pointed out what are the main risks to our national security, mainly those that appeared in 2015, and should be addressed. There should hardly be a contradiction here and another view that these are predominantly the severe symptoms of the crisis, whether it can be reported as financial, such as economic, such as recession, such as depression, whether it is global, or regional, and especially its impact on society, individual and state. Instead, the National Security Report deals mainly with the prism of foreign policy, foreign relations, where Russia is directly or indirectly referred to as one of the main threats to Bulgaria's national security. Unfortunately, colleagues, reading this document, we are somehow returning to the Cold War times, to bipolar block opposition. A major focus is placed on the hybrid war. With this hybrid war, I feel that some officials at the Council of Ministers could already defend dissertations. But unfortunately, hybrid war is like aliens. Everyone knows they exist, but no one has seen them. Next, the report would have more merit if it were at least a little more realistic and, above all, more critical. Some vital issues and the causes of these issues are clearly affected. The growth of unemployment, the reduction of investment in the economy. The last, unprestigious place in a number of rankings, such as by the level of income of the population, marginalization of significant groups of social strata of our society and so on. The analysis of the problems in education, in some ways in health care, especially the alarming symptoms of the demographic crisis and so on are not thorough enough. The report at first glance misleads with a very specific pseudoanalyticity. In fact, there is sliding over the problems of national security and our accumulation with laws and regulations, especially in the section on specific policies that should occur according to the authors. That seems to be the end of the government's efforts. Except these things don't happen. Unfortunately, we're witnessing them just on paper. More attention needs to be paid to identifying and identifying risks and threats, because this is the practical and useful approach that can build a base on which to build. The Strategy itself reported new realities and a new security environment, along with the classic National Security Support Army, police, special services. In the foreground, especially in the current crisis situation, people's lives have come to light, which includes their right to a decent life, to accessible and quality education, to work and decent income, to a secure and healthy living environment, to the right to feel decent people in a democratic state. In order for the report not to be universal, i.e. with small changes it will be up-to-date, both the previous and the next, and this year it must be closer to the individual, to his problems, which together determine the agenda of society. Here, of course, a state strategic approach must be taken into account and applied in the long-term arrangement of priorities. The confirmation of this reasoning is also contained in the National Security Strategy itself in point 19, in which, in the first place, among the vital interests are mentioned, I quote: the guarantee of the rights, freedoms, security and welfare of the citizen, society and state. Last but not least, the identification of specific risks and threats next year, i.e. what it will differ from the current one, from the reporting one. I will now focus on several aspects that I have also addressed in the Defence Committee. They concern two of the main guidelines for national security policy action, namely the fight against organised crime and the development and modernisation of the Armed Forces. For the first, for explained reasons and lack of time, I will quote only one sentence from the Report. Listen carefully: General crime is decreasing by increasing disclosure rates. Colleagues from the ruling coalition, go with this statement in any Bulgarian town or village and I guarantee you will be cruelly ridiculed and banished. A country where domestic crime has acquired a pandemic character. The shootings and killings in the streets are everyday, corruption and abuse of public finances passed the third world countries... [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] It's also said in the report. Why do you react like that? This finding, fellow Members, is not simply false. She's cynical and offensively ugly. In terms of defense. The report does not essentially analyse and give no idea of institutional and government policy in this sector. Things are reduced to a presentation of the actions carried out by the Ministry of Defence in a period of one year, such as spending resources, and politics is developed as cliches, and rather as some kind of theory in a lecturing option to some audience or to listeners. Formations and reports on defence policy and the Armed Forces shall not give a clear idea of the appropriateness and direction of the activities carried out. Developed these, such as management views and priorities in defence policy, are presented as a new beginning under the motto "Everything starts from us" so far nothing has been done. The changes presented as a priority in the Defence and Armed Forces Act prove that, and we have said this many times, and we have proved it, rather an attempt to party the defence policy rather than to be a condition for introducing management approaches to defence processes. The implementation of budget programmes based on the Integrated Defence Resources Management System under the four main policies has established practice and is not a discovery of the current leadership of the Ministry of Defence. The development of abilities is rather theoretical development, not analytical wordings of what has been achieved and how far it has been achieved. The analysis of capacity development focuses on the implementation of the so-called powers targets, expressed in the commitments made to NATO and does not follow the logic of the complex approach. The limitation of the costs of combat preparation of the types of Armed Forces is one of the main indicators of capacity formation, talking about the bankruptcy of policy and approach. Despite the cliché of transparency, there is no clear and open analysis of how budget funds have been spent in the types of Armed Forces and what abilities have been developed on the basis of these spending funds. No account shall be taken of the need to balance needs with regard to capabilities and new developments in the development of technologies and weapons in the modernisation of the Armed Forces. The analysis of the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian Army does not give an idea of priority in the implementation and need for funding with a view to achieving priority tasks. The analysis is a purely technical sum of numbers and repeats the thesis that the previous government is responsible for everything. The report gives statistical data on the participation of the Armed Forces in various operations, without the necessary conclusions, tasks and lessons from this. In conclusion, we can say that the set priorities for 2016 are clichéd intentions that do not reflect a realistic approach to implementing an active policy based on a national identity combined with the positive realities of the country's membership in NATO and the European Union. There is no clear framework for developing complex capabilities adequate to the risks and threats with priority of forces and means of already stated commitments. There is no balance between the needs and resources to continue the modernization of the Bulgarian Army and the formation of an active policy on priorities in the field of modernization and defence as a guarantor of the necessary effect in the construction of the Armed Forces. The affirmation of a new model for defence management is also lacking, with the question being reduced to submission to the military-professional capacity of political leadership. The policy for the formation of conditions for spiritual progress, the development of culture, education and social standards, i.e. increasing the quality of life of servicemen and the motivation for work in the national institution, such as the army, is also missing. All this, honourable Members, gives us reason not to support the report in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u36	Thank you, Mr. Zafirov. Replices to Mr. Zafirov? I won't. Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u37	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the special services! The ABB Parliamentary Group will support the 2015 National Security Status Report. As a Member of the National Assembly, I think it is useful for this debate to emphasise that the report has the task and role of a bridge between the security situation over two years to a third. This is why it is not so fatal that the report has not been dealt with in some way § 157 of the March Strategy "May" month, and the fact that we are now looking at it, it refreshes our preparation and responsibility for the construction of the state budget, so all services in the coming months, as well as we in the committees, must work precisely for the budget and state budget in the field of national security. I think it is appropriate, on behalf of the ABB Parliamentary Group, to highlight at some points the Report, which may also acquire a better quality assessment next year when it will be considered for 2016. Firstly, in the Defence Committee, and I am convinced that the report has, above all, a constructive part and lacks its analyticalness in depth. Personally, I lack a section on foreign policy analysis of military threats. Therefore, our parliamentary group's proposal is for the future to build the report, not on the elements of the national security system, but on the structure of the National Security Strategy, in order to give a more accurate analysis and response to the far-sightedness of our strategy, whether it needs refreshment, there are already such discussions, whether it responds to the threats, because it did not respond to what happened in the Black Sea region. She couldn't predict it! I therefore believe that in the future the proposal is to build the report on the structure of the National Security Strategy. Makes a good impression that the report respects a fundamental approach, namely from the security of citizens to the security of the state. This thread in the Report sees. I am very impressed by the fact that the obstacles to Bulgaria's economic growth are being answered. The three percent gross domestic product that we report for last year, and now the question of whether we will have 3%, is given in the report as a reason. The first reason, the very important "low entrepreneurial activity of business in domestic and international terms." Many businessmen, companies do not have entrepreneurial activity to develop reproduction on an extended scale. The second reason for the country's growth, as indicated in the report, is weak investment activity for both domestic investment and external investment. We're reading 1 billion. 600 million. Euros last year. And now? This investment activity is now the responsibility of the government and, of course, part of the National Assembly. And last but not least, as a moral assessment for our people, we take into account in the report, which is important and correct, that unemployment is 9.1 percent, and at the same time the third reason for the lack of growth is the low productivity of the population, of the workers, of the peasants along with the great epidemiological hazard for the animals in agriculture. Here are these at least three things, for us as MPs, are reflected in the report and we must have a certain bias to develop them for this bridge in the coming years, which I have shared. And last but not least, the huge shock of the demographic collapse is disappearing from Bulgaria. Forty-three thousand two hundred people, and above, disappear every year from our people. A very good impression makes the evolution of immigrant pressure as an assessment in the Report. We have gone from accepting the refugees with a good heart in Bulgaria and Europe - it is still a trend, we have gone through the stage of the European Union's enclosures and our enclosures, and now is the most important stage for which many countries and political parties are criticising the government, but this is the approach, namely the third stage of political determination and solution of the crisis in the Middle East and North Africa. It depends on our country too. And this stage in the report is strongly highlighted as a military political, foreign policy assessment of the outcome of this crisis. I've criticized the issue of the fight against crime before. And here I criticise in the Report.. Note what is said: The partnership between the police, private sector and civil society is a key factor for a successful fight against crime. I've never loved that word, and we don't love it, because countering the police with the crime of the civil sector and so on. The objectives must also be set in this report and, of course, in the Law that we have adopted. In the end, a few words about defence policy, as this has been reflected more than enough in the reports. There is a vacuum that is filled with operational-strategic documents, including this report after White Paper No 2 adopted by the previous Parliament. Yes, but the more important vacuum is the lack of preparation. There is a vacuum in the capabilities of the armed forces, which we must plan in the next budget as a decisive achievement of modernisation and re-arming of the types of armed forces. It is unacceptable to the ABC the calmness of the Ministry of Defence and the lack of concern, as the Minister of Defence said, by the fact that the Bulgarian air force alone cannot perform the air security of the Bulgarian sky. This lack of concern in the Ministry of Defence is very disturbing, and I believe that the fact of 9 September, which is about to happen, should not be reassuring, but, on the contrary, it must give a strong signal for the modernisation of troops and the return of our abilities. However, I welcome cross-border operations. We welcome them! Such agreements we have with Greece, with Romania, also coming to Turkey, which is not like erpolising with other forces and with other Union forces, but cross-border operations to increase efforts. Anxiety, in conclusion, also causes the dangerously low nads of the pilots, which can lead to severe crashes with the loss of the last planes and the life of the last prepared pilots, as well as programs that are realized with the restoration of old battle planes, such as L-39 in the Bulgarian Army. In conclusion, the aims of the Bulgarian Army's abilities are dangerously close as time to fail to fulfil them. The Middle Horizon is 2019 for the implementation of 55 objectives. The deadline is very far away, but it costs more than 2 billion. leva, which we should be thinking about, too. I can make a few conclusions: the bad in defence policy is that we have a personnel collapse in the Bulgarian army. She's incomplete. The flexibility is 87% for the permanent composition and 21% for the reserve, which is dangerously low. The whiff of military university is low. Out of 260 seats this year, only 180 were filled, and only 85 officers came. This approach also implies a more normal attitude towards our defence industry. In order to be able to carry out the modernization and re-arming of the armed forces ourselves in the coming years, we must restore it and actually obtain a more solid military policy and military security for the country, which is only a small part of national security, which has come out of so many reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u38	A line to Mr. Mihov? None Any other MPs? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u39	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Houses, thank you very much! Our parliamentary group will also support the 2015 National Security Status Report. I will try very briefly to say a few arguments in this direction why we will do so. Honourable Members, the report basically has two parts. One is a constructive part, showing high expertise, detailed awareness of our services. The report also has an analytical part that relates to certain forecasts, which we should perhaps look at in more detail. Perhaps, honourable gentlemen of the services, you missed in detail in the Report to note the role of the political system in the problems created for national security, because this is an extremely serious and important problem for Bulgaria. This problem of the state of the political system and the problems created by political opposition seriously suffers our national security and the opportunities for timely countermeasure, and especially for preventing threats to our country. My fellow Members, in all these years I have been in the National Assembly for 10 years, in the Committee on Defence, I have been Vice-President, President of the Commission, we have not been able to secure, I have also said it in my previous speech, a continuity with regard to the main mechanisms that make our security system effective, especially with regard to the modernisation of the armed forces, the opportunities to be provided to our military for timely action in case of need, nor with regard to motivation. You know how many problems we had related to removing certain social benefits they had, with certain benefits for their families, with regard to their pay, retirement and so on. And then we're wondering why there's an incomplete set at the end of the day. My fellow Members, I think that just when we discussed these laws, over 3,000 military forces left the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, I think more. After all, I have said it before, now I will say it again: only last year we have started to look at the sector differently quality. And maybe we did it a little late, but it's still important that we did it at this point. Dear colleagues, the Bulgarian Armed Forces have serious problems with the assembly. This is an extremely important issue. Unfortunately, this leads to a serious demotivation of the people who serve in the Armed Forces of Bulgaria. We need a very serious strategy and it must become the number one for the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in terms of current threats. These threats will not end soon and we must very clearly focus on two things: external threats and internal threats. Dear colleagues, the public finances of our country are at a critical level. They cannot serve not only the security sector, but also other policies. The state of Bulgaria's economy is extremely worrying. We are talking about unemployment, but perhaps here we should emphasise that 2 million. Three hundred thousand. Bulgarians work in Bulgaria, colleagues. Two million and five hundred thousand work outside. Over 1 million there are those that are not covered by the social statistical system. To have a higher quality of life in Bulgaria, a significantly larger gross domestic product is needed. And when I said about the political system, we must at all costs do our best to deal with and adopt the Law on Combating Corruption, accept everything that effectively serves the Bulgarian economy and Bulgarian entrepreneurs. The generation of crime within the Republic of Bulgaria, honourable Members, at this stage cannot in any way be stopped only with the potential of the Ministry of Interior and the Services. We need to be clear about this. It is a big mistake on our part that we are constantly making the Ministry of Interior guilty. That's not true at all. You remember the conditions under which Border Patrol, Ministry of the Interior, Armed Forces officers, in what misery they were guarding the border. This is also our fault of politicians. Therefore, now that the time is coming for adoption of the budget, we must develop a clear strategy and make severe compromises perhaps with other policies, but to provide the necessary financial resources for the security of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian borders, the Bulgarian economy, the Bulgarian education, the Bulgarian health care, because otherwise the existence of our country is extremely threatened. We here also need to provide the necessary support specifically for the prime minister in this direction, which recently has a very active position and we believe that it must be supported by a serious parliamentary majority in terms of threats related to the refugee flow. Dear colleagues, a very serious refugee invasion could put our country to the test to destroy it. That should be clear to us as MPs. Therefore, by adopting this Report, we hope that our services and all those who have commitments regarding national security, much more effectively, much more dynamically, much more strategically implement actions that ultimately guarantee the security of every Bulgarian citizen. This has been said by colleagues before me and I believe that this is our primary objective, but this is not just about security in terms of his life, but also security in terms of quality of life, about the ability to feel calm in his country and to feel the state behind him as a friend and as an assistant, not as an enemy. So hopefully, honourable Members, with everything we have done as legislative changes lately, we have taken a serious step forward and all of this will finally start happening in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u40	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I don't see any MPs wishing to make a line. For a statement? Here you go. To speak, the people representative Velizar Enchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u41	In previous speeches, this was briefly affected, but it is time to say something that is politically incorrect, but is the truth itself. The report barely speaks, or rather does not speak at all and does not use this vocabulary, and it is as follows. Whole areas of the country are victims of Gypsy crime. I am not talking about the honourable representatives of the Roma community in Bulgaria, which are a majority. It's about these raging gangs that put our fathers, mothers, grandparents and grandmothers in terrible condition, who fall asleep at night thinking whether their property and their lives will survive by tomorrow. I am making this statement because I believe that political correctness does not preclude the possibility of telling the truth as it is and not as we like it or as we think it will not appeal to our European partners and non-governmental organisations in the face of the Helsinki Observer and the others they defend, to say it directly, although the Commission of Discrimination is already bringing a case against me on this issue, these Roma gangs who terrorize entire areas of the country. I ask myself: what has the so-called collective security system also done in its personal elements? Of course, I'm in no way referring to Foreign Intelligence, Military Intelligence and DANS, but I'm talking about the internal security system in the face of the Ministry of Interior. What has been done about this, and we, as a National Assembly, as a legislative body, what will we propose? Not to appease the citizens, not to reassure our compatriots and voters, as on the left side of the House was affected this topic, but to take radical measures - both during the time of Stambolov and also in Stamboliiski. Radical measures, because I understand that elections are coming, and each of the political forces needs the Roma votes. All political forces, parliamentary parties, need the votes of the Bulgarian Roma, but this need should not close our mouths and eyes. I do not know if this will affect at all, as it is politically incorrect, the Bulgarian citizen in the villages, in the small towns where police and gendarmerie are present symbolically, is only interested in this, at least I have information from the Trojan region, where in separate villages they live in fear of how they will rise up. I guess it's the same in a lot of other areas. I therefore propose, when we accept this Report, that we do not forget this introspective need for the National Assembly not to close its eyes, but to recognise a specific Balkan phenomenon - Bulgaria is the only country in the Balkans and perhaps in Europe where Gypsy crime is impunity. Here, that's my speech, and I hope they'll support me. However, where are the Members of the Party of Ataka, who have always been quite noisy on this topic, not to say loud, but apparently now their political correctness is beneficial on the eve of the upcoming presidential campaign, where on the principle.............................. the cancer and pike... a coalition took place? But this coalition shouldn't make them forget their election promises. I appeal to my colleagues from NFSB, from IMRO, from IMRO to take this tone that I am now giving and to give their opinion: what will they do, what do they offer on this issue? The elections will pass and go, but the Bulgarian citizens in the small settlements where we have not even seen a policeman, not to talk about a cataclyser, will remain with this problem if they will steal their chicken, whether they will harm their property, whether they will survive in the morning, whether they will be alive. Here, this is the big problem of Bulgarian citizens, without, of course, belittle the topics that we touched on at the closed session, and now, which many of our colleagues have affected, and quite seriously and thoroughly. This, in my opinion, is the big question of the Bulgarian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u42	Thank you, Mr. Enchev. - What's the line? I do not see any MPs wishing to make a replica of Mr. Enchev's speech. To speak, the People's Representative from the Group of the Reformation Block Gen. Atanasov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally will not support the report. Not because he's badly written, but because he's absent, and incorrect, of course, very important risk threats to national security. Since the subject is very extensive, everything is national security, starting from life, health, education, social status of people and so on, there is not enough time to dwell on all these elements. With regard to economic security, I will say only one sentence, I do not want to repeat things that have been said in this House, but the most serious risk in the area of economic security is not at all noted in the Report. In Bulgaria there is a poor investment environment, for the main reason there is a lack of fair justice and severe corruption schemes in the distribution of the public product. During the distribution of the budget funds there is a distribution of the portions, there are closed public contracts and all this prevents foreign investors from putting their funds into the Bulgarian economy. This is a very serious risk to the Bulgarian national economy and the fact is not mentioned at all in the report, it is not discussed what are the reasons for it. The reason is one thing, and this is a bad government policy related precisely to the reasons I have given you. In this regard, the Bulgarian National Assembly has its responsibility because it was not at its height to adopt amendments to the Constitution for Radical Judicial Reform. This is first in terms of economics. Government policy as a whole in the field of national security does not deserve support because of other severe failures. First of all, I would like to point out the problem that we discussed at the closed session at the adoption of intelligence reports. This is not financing the security system as a whole. National security requires serious financial investments for technical provision, including the provision of such specific activities as work with the agency. With regard to the internal security and public order services, for the Ministry of Interior, I think I am not far from the public assessment because there is sociology in this regard that the Bulgarian society considers that the internal security and public order policy is a severe failure. See what sociology says: less than 10% of society's support for this crime-fighting policy, and especially for the fight against organised crime. What are the reasons why the results are so bad? There is a phenomenon that I call a trade in which there is absolute continuity between governments, because one of the pre-speakers said that there is no continuity between governments in this sector. I would like to tell you that in this area there is a solid continuity between the Bulgarian governments regarding the courtship of the behind-the-scenes of narrow oligarchic circles and certain economic monopolies. There is absolute continuity in this regard! There's a lot of heavy demo in the employees who work in the security units, and that affects the non-completion. In general, the camera failure in the different security units is between 35 and 40%. Here you should look for the causes of this failure. Why do people, young experts, well-trained specialists, do not want to work in these units, and why do people with experience who would be useful leave this system? Because the law in the field of personnel policy is being rudely violated, it's being circumvented. Last year, when we amended the Act on the Ministry of Interior, the National Assembly adopted texts imposing the principle of competition. In the Act on the Ministry of Interior, this principle is severely violated, honourable Members, by regulations. This severely disincentives conscious, honest and honest people in this system because they do not see the prospect of their personnel development, as it is clear to them that in order to ascend into the system, you must have an uncle master in power. In some sense, I would say that here with the government of Boyko Borisov there is a strong continuation of the policy since Oresharski's time to concession certain activities in the field of national security and it is for the benefit of such circles as the Sarai-library group. Sometimes it causes smiles, but it is a serious problem that certain behind-the-scenes corporate groups have an interest not to be monitored and not to develop certain activities. This is guaranteed by people appointed to nodes who are comfortable and close their eyes to what is happening in this area. Of course, there are other very important elements related to healthcare, to education, which are elements of national security. I don't have time to dwell on them. I want to finish with what I started with, that first of all, we must have a healthy economy that will generate enough economic resources for the well-being of the Bulgarian people. The bad investment climate in the country, which has been breached by unfair justice and heavy corruption schemes in the distribution of portions, does not give a good perspective in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u44	Thank you, General. Atanasov. - What's the line? I do not see any MPs wishing to make a replica of the speech of the MP Atanasov. To speak, the People's Representative Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u45	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It must be clear that we are living in an environment of personal and global uncertainty. Between these two orientations lies our national uncertainty. This is the starting point that should make us appreciate the risks and threats facing the country. In my opinion, if in the coming years this report bets no more on the width but on the deepening of the analysis, it will win. It is true that in each area, directly or indirectly, factors are acting that affect security. I prefer to concentrate to a greater extent on financial, energy stability, military, foreign policy factors, on key economic or as in the Bulgarian case is the serious demographic situation, rather than describing the whole spectrum and thus to get in most cases a practical result that leads us to proposals for action. I believe that even in the economic area, the biggest threat is that there are sectors, and they are not mentioned, where what is said to be prejudiced, there are state-directed economic groups, which must be tolerated, is not an exception, but a rule. Therefore, an overall economic atmosphere is created. We should also point out that in certain places the report uses half-tons, and they cannot help but sound like half-truths. I will give just two examples: there is talk of the crumbling statehood in the Middle East and North Africa. Why do we not use the term "disrupting statehood" because where, intentionally, where, due to short-sightedness, the influence of different external forces has greatly accelerated these processes, so that they are not only due to their own development, to some occurrence of accidental circumstances, or where challenges are being talked about instead of threats, because today international terrorism and religiously motivated violence are no longer just a challenge, they are the biggest real threat that weighs on humanity and potentially, including Bulgarian citizens. I believe that today we need to alert the security services, alone or in partner relations, to seek out the truths, and this is a matter of capacity and courage. We have two very bitter historical examples of the war against Yugoslavia and in Iraq, which were based on deliberate misconceptions. They have waged today's crisis and instability in the Western Balkans and in the Middle East. We do not always have our own opportunities to come to the conclusions, but it is also a signal for politicians not to parrot, not to accept the convenient wordings, and then to fight the consequences. This is indeed a very big requirement and a challenge for ourselves. I will conclude, Mr President, with the fact that we already have, I have also had the opportunity to see the European Union's new Global Strategy for Foreign and Security Policy this year. There are also true statements in it, in my opinion, and some idealized statements. The second, for example, refers to the fact that there is no contradiction between national and European interests. Today, this is not always the case. We need to pay attention to two key regions of the Western Balkans as well, because they really pose significant risks to Bulgaria's national security. It is good that the European Union is aware, I quote, that it will engage Russia...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u46	More than a minute, Mr. Stoilov. Please navigate...
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u47	... to discuss disagreements and cooperation if and when interests coincide. And I will finally allow myself to make a proposal for us to discuss the issue of Bulgaria giving a clear signal to Europe and to the areas of uncertainty that we will only accept migrants through the officially designated places at the border. The one who goes wherever he wants and in whatever way he wants, if he's not a refugee, he won't be able to benefit from any status. This will enable us to ask for the return of many of these individuals and to respect, including the use of the eligible means, of measures to increase our security. And as the European report also says, the soft power in this unstable world is no longer enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. - What's the line? I don't see anyone asking for a line. For speech the People's Representative, Assoc. Milen Mihov of the Parliamentary Group of the Patriotic Front. Until the speaker comes to the stand, honourable presidents and chiefs of special services, the Secretary of the Security Council, you have the right to take the attitude. If you wish, give me a sign by raising your hand. Mr. Mihov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! From the Patriotic Front, we will support this report because there are many important things that are said, perhaps for the first time so frankly. Any such document can always say two assessments: either that something is missing or that everything is reflected in it. I will try to find a balance between these two positions and say that it says little about education as an element of national security. The report lists only five points from 96 to 100, dedicated to education. If we remove several texts that have a purely statistical and informative character, we can only sow two important elements that are indicated in it. The first one is very eloquent and he sounds like a reproach to all the rulers until today. One of the main reasons for the problems in education, as an element of national security, is the multitude, I quote, incoherent and non-transparent reforms, which lead to low funding, depreciated material base and crisis, we can say financial and material for Bulgarian education. From the Patriotic Front we find this assessment somewhat particularly up-to-date in view of the current state and management of the Ministry of Education and Science today. We ask ourselves: after the entry of the new Law on preschool and school education how the Ministry performs the imperative order of the Law in art. 5, para. 1, t. 2, namely, the purpose of Bulgarian education is the preservation and validation of the Bulgarian national identity? Adopted and published for discussion state-educational standards command us to build many valuable and necessary qualities of the Bulgarian youth, but they seem to miss the requirement of the Law of the Bulgarian Education, I stress, to preserve and validate the Bulgarian national identity. Without going into details, I will only recall a maxim of Bismarck, spoken at the end of the 19th century: The war was won in the classrooms. The implementation of this mandate, of this legal norm, is directly related to national security and we are waiting for the Ministry of Education to implement it in life. Next, it is very important to note what the change report says, and I quote the values that lead to a low priority of education in the life path. Values, dear friends and colleagues are being formed. They are formed by the political elite, by the media, by education. In this respect, we must find that a public, media environment is formed, which is teeming with negative assessments of Bulgarian education. I will only recall some of them:..a muddled education.....................of elite foreign education;. professors per kilogram and teachers.. are only some of the epithets that we read daily in the newspapers. This value system must be changed and it is a task of us, of the National Assembly, of the executive power and of the media to tell the truth that in the context of a crisis the Bulgarian education remains one of the Stojeers of national security. I will tell the second part what this report says very importantly. Often and very long they have convinced us that collective security, membership in the European Union and NATO is sufficient and full guarantee for our own national security, for the ethnic peace and prosperity of the country. But it is this report that says something very important. Point 71: The national security risk is the ongoing "Pay attention" and new claims of countries for national minorities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Next, it is noted that the systematic policy of assimilation of Bulgarian communities in the region continues and the violation of basic civil rights of Bulgarians in our neighbours. The report does not say who these countries are in the region, and if we ask the question who they are, that would be a rhetorical question. Which countries in the region do not claim national minorities in Bulgaria? Which countries in the region suppress and restrict the civil rights of the Bulgarians? These questions sound rhetorical, and we all know that. Next, it says something important. 584 et seq. 585, as a need for an active policy of the Bulgarian state for the protection of Bulgarians abroad, for Bulgarians in Southeast Europe and the Western Balkans, which should be aimed both at active and consistent bilateral policy and towards a policy aimed at our allies in the European Union and NATO, which should be engaged in the protection of fundamental civil rights and the rights of Bulgarian minorities in the region. And thirdly, a very important place, a financially secured policy in support of the Bulgarian communities in the region. In this sense, we will support this report because it gives clear messages about a qualitative change of Bulgarian policy towards Bulgarian minorities and Bulgarian citizens abroad, both in the European Union, but so above all in the region, as an element of our national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support this report, which we have debated today. Yes, the report in its main part has findings on individual sectoral policies. These findings have made some of them point-blank without reading the report. As a result of these findings that have been made, the relevant legislative initiatives and the government's respective actions for aeroplanes and ships have been taken in this year, are they not the result of the findings in the report? A new Public Procurement Act, which we have been discussing and debating here, is it not the result of the findings in the report? Are the amendments to insurance and pension legislation not due to the findings in the ageing report? I'm not going to remind you of the ratio right now, 69:100, and a hundred forty-something to a hundred in 2001. Yes, but some of those who spoke here about these supporting precises voted against these laws. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the National Security Status Report if anyone has forgotten, has not been present or has not paid attention, I will remind you that in May, if I am not mistaken, a review has been adopted, an analysis of the state of defence and the armed forces. So we will support the report. I don't want to go back, say what's missing. Maybe this report is missing that there are stopped funds. They're missing, yes, because there aren't any. We will support this report. I don't want to debate anymore so I don't bother.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u52	A line to Mr. Lazarov? I won't. Any other MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to. The debate is closed. I would like to remind you: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2015 Voting mode. Vote 113 MPs: 97, Against 2, abstention 14. The decision has been adopted and thus the Annual Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2015. Thank you for the participation of the invited chiefs and staff of the services concerned with the report under discussion. We move on to the next point, and this is from yesterday: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE CONVERSATION OF THE COMMISSION'S CONVERSION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENCE OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY; THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ACCESS AND DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE CONVERSATION OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE DECTION OF THE BULGARIAN ARMY AND THE LAW FOR THE ARCHIVE OF THE ARCHIVES OF THE PUBLIC SECURITY AND OF THE INNING OFFICES OF THE BULGARIAN ARMY We started the discussions on three drafts reported by importers after we heard the reports of the committees. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to take part in the debate? I recall that yesterday on behalf of the importers last Mr. Angel Naydenov a few seconds, a minute entered the time of the debates, so we are currently a mode of debate. Anyone? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor of speech with the clear awareness that the proposed bill by the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not be adopted by you. He will not be accepted not because he is bad, not because he is, I would say, against the interests of the state. On the contrary, what we offer protects precisely the interests of the state, national security, the past, dignity and honor of those who served in the authorities that have provided national security during the time we are talking about. The Bill will not be adopted because you are not sensitive to national security and you have put on your finger that the one who once belonged to these bodies is almost leper. Colleagues, unfortunately, that's not true. First of all, I would like to remind you that the report of one of the committees has already found that the existing Law, I will call it, for short, the Law on Files, is imperfect. We propose that this Law be repealed, because for its almost nine-year existence this Law and the authority that we created by this Law, apart from bringing additional dividing lines into society, cause scandals with mixed, conflicting, often mutually exclusive information, did not achieve anything else. You remember very well that the idea of this Law was to come to light the names of the snitches. Well, I ask all of you: how many names have you learned from this Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u54	We know, we know!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u55	You've learned the names of officers and people who served national security. The names of the snitches, the deeds of the snitches were hidden even before the adoption of this Law, because these snitches and now there are somewhere among us here, hidden and destroyed cases, dependent and voting dependent! For this reason, it is we who propose that this Law be repealed because, among other things, the practice of selective and purposeful announcement of data by the Commission will be stopped for those who are inconvenient at the moment and for hiding data for those who are convenient. They're accusing us of wanting to limit the volume of checks by this Law. In fact, if you look deeply at what we are proposing, you will see that on the contrary: we propose to the relevant organizations, parties, NGOs and associations to check everyone who wants to be their member, who believes that they should be checked. Yeah, right, they're gonna want his consent, but if they don't get it, then they're gonna figure out if this guy's worth being a member. In this way, first of all, we guarantee democracy of the process; second time, we give the right to those who lead the respective organisations to make their decisions.......................................................................................... Otherwise, we will continue, as there is a proposal here in one of the bills, to expand the volume today with deputy mayors, tomorrow with department heads, the day after tomorrow with the cleaners. Why not check them out when they work in a state institution and could, for example, find something in the trash can and depend on someone if they belonged to the authorities, according to your logic, they can carry that information out.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u56	Don't tell them!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u57	There's something else I'd like to highlight. With what we propose, we channel and the way we prove belonging to these organs. Colleagues, at the moment, what's in most cases is that if you have a card, you belong to those organs. That's not true! That's not true, and I'm gonna tell you from my personal practice as a military intelligence officer. When we understood that someone would travel abroad because the people who were sent abroad were not lame and crippled, as they are today, but were sent people selected, fit, prepared, and they were not so much, each one of the services was looking for such a person to be mapped without even warning him. We were running a card to block it as a service. And when we needed this guy further along, we could turn to him because there was coordination between the services. So many people who have cards don't even know they exist, and we blame them for belonging to the national security services at the time. For this reason, we want to protect people from such unfair treatment. Among other things, we want to do what this Law failed to do: distinguish informants from those who served the State. Today, after 27 years of changes, to keep trying to throw folders at each other is a little retrograde! Today, 27 years after the changes, it is high time to understand that the history of Bulgaria is not a series, from one to the next! Since we don't like it from one date to another, we won't be watching this series, we'll be watching the next series. We need to understand that the state of the Republic of Bulgaria is the successor of the State of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. Those who honestly and conscientiously worked for the national security of the People's Republic of Bulgaria have to some extent contributed to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria today. Some of them continue to contribute to this thing. Instead of being subjected to undeserved acuteism, as we are currently trying to do, to humiliation and to be distinguished from snitches, we are trying to put everyone on the same level so that we can, as in criminal novels, hide in the many piles of information that should really be public. It is time to realize that the state's device is irrelevant to the valor, honor and risk that everyone has worked under, whether it was before 1989 or after this year. To understand that today, faced with the risk of external asymmetric hazards, work, including undercover, including agential, is extremely important. This Law, which we currently have, is counterproductive in this area because it disproves people to serve the state; because those who have served are now undeservedly blamed. Today we should listen to the voice of reason and finally turn an institution from a political bat into a sufficiently valuable archive, as we suggest, so that with this information we can work historians and researchers and not be dirty by politicians. I say it again with the awareness that you will not vote on our bill, but we are obliged to tell you so that we are not accused tomorrow why we did not warn you when you yourself will come to the conclusion that the Law we currently have is anti-State, anti-social, I would call it unconstitutional from the point of view of democratic principles, finally............................ is acting against the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u58	Any lines to Mr. Ermenkov? Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I think it is incorrect to look at such an important bill relating to snitches in the absence of the party of snitches. I don't see any DPS here. Almost all of them are snitches. Please call the snitches here with the bell. [[Applause from GERB, RB and PF.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u60	All Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups shall be required to attend the plenary session, with the exception of those who, for respectable reasons, have stated in advance that they will not participate in today's plenary session. I invite all MPs who are in the parliament building to be in plenary. To speak the word has Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor on the submitted bill from BSP left Bulgaria. I declare that I will not support it and I will vote against it. I also take occasion from talking to one of the negotiators that this bill has been submitted with the awareness that it will not be accepted. This is a learned, very commonly used PR approach to outline the victim's image. That's why the pre-election move was made, and it's not the first time this thing's been used. During my speech during the closed session I marked this fact, I will say it again.. There are several MPs in this National Assembly, there were also in front of the National Assembly, who as officers of the totalitarian services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria are MPs named because of this PR approach. Because they are playing on the string of nostalgia: See how serious a security system Bulgaria has had, and now the Democrats have come, it has been broken down by this system and we, who have worked honestly for the People's Republic of Bulgaria, have on top of that they have announced to us the names. Thus mobilized a small protest vote from among the former low, medium and higher nomenclature and their families and relatives. These are not at all few people who are going to vote with conviction for these officers who had worked for the security of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. But here I want to remind you of something extremely important. There is an instruction of the Politburo of the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party for the work in the field of State Security and it is explicitly stated that only persons who are irrevocably faithful to the Bulgarian Communist Party and to the friendship with the Soviet Union can be appointed as officers of the State Security. The class-party approach to the selection of these people is missing from everywhere in these documents and now, at some point, these people were victims. There was talk about how those who traveled then were chosen in the second direction, as they expressed themselves. I don't want to ruin the debate, but there was a very famous anecdote about how one of those seconded when he came back from the West the neighbors asked him what he saw there and he said, "Well, I didn't have much time, but I found out that all the shops were Koreans." So for the Koreans to remind you, this is very important. And only certain people, well-chosen in this principle, could see the Koreans. And something about the dividing lines in Bulgarian society. There were dividing lines in the announcement of those who were employees, collaborators, snitches, whatever you like to call them, of totalitarian services. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a very important dividing line from the beginning of the Bulgarian transition and this dividing line in this area was about the destruction of documents. Because there is an archive in this regard, there are documents in which it is explicitly written: absolutely to destroy all documents for those agents who have been loyal to the policy of the BCP and can be promising when changing the political situation. Some of them were destroyed and sent to Rakovski (No 134) to establish the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u62	Any lines to Mr. Atanasov? Mr. Ermenkov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u63	Dear Mr. Atanasov, there are no casualties here. There are people here who are proud of what we've done, so on the contrary, we don't complain. I'd even say this Law made it possible for people to understand what I was doing. Otherwise, I couldn't have done it. What I want to ask is: and the students from military schools, when they accepted them, did they respond to the class-party approach when they were supposed to be students, or did they take them without verification, without a characteristic of at least two members of the BCP and so walked without being checked out? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u64	Second line? Mr. Slavov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u65	Mrs. Chairman! Dear colleague Atanasov, I took a line because you said a lot of right things, but you missed something very important, I want to pay attention to you. You have noted that the bill tabled from the left has been tabled following our Law on the extension of the activity and strengthening the activities of the so-called............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think you just called it a PR or an election event or an event, but in fact more importantly, what you missed is that they imported this Bill to close the Commission when we on the right offered the Commission to check out the so-called new credit millionaires, i.e. those people we read on the CCB lists that they had received the unsecured loans, that probably the huge blame for the money of this bank is there, that these are the persons who drained it and we asked: "Aren't these the same persons who 1996 And why shouldn't this thing be checked again at least to know, since obviously responsibility for the moment can't stand it, then they brought in this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u66	Third line? A hole, Mr. Atanasov? You're not gonna use the back. To speak, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, I believe that this topic was up to date in the 1990s and it had to end in the first years of democracy. Unfortunately, we are now taking part in a debate in which BSP left Bulgaria and representatives from the then ODS are currently passing on who is responsible for this and why should the Commission be closed or should not be closed? Dear colleagues, if there was political will in the intentions at the beginning of democracy by the ODS to reveal the files and transmit the informational arrays in the Commission, everything would be a closed topic. Because today those kids who were born in the '90s don't know what they're talking about and they can't understand. Unfortunately, all these parties on the left and on the right at the beginning of democracy were transferring the ball, making political PR, but nothing really did. Thanks to the establishment and establishment of the Political Party GERB and its entry into power 2009 into the executive power and 2009 into the legislative power, in 2010, we submitted all the information units from the Ministry of Interior to the Committee on Files. And today we can say that we have fulfilled the commitment, which was the energy of democratic processes in Bulgaria. When we talk today whether or not to close down, I think there is more to be done and you know that at this time,... Military information.. has not yet transmitted all its information units. Why? We're asking the question. And we're going to ask that to the Defence Minister who's from the Reformation Block because we want to find out if there's a sabotage of this process. [[Applause from GERB.]] Do you understand that GERB should now stand as an arbitrator? I can make a commitment from GERB's Parliamentary Group that we will continue to read this whole story so that we can, when we close the page, know that we have fulfilled our moral commitment to these democratic thinking Bulgarian citizens who gave their support in 1997. When we made our preparations for the forty-two and forty-third parliament, then actually Metodi Andreev, going out in the studios, said: "GERB is the only political formation that fulfilled the swords of the real Democrats in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u68	- What's the line? Mr. Atanasov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tsvetanov, if those born in 1990 do not know, we, the previous generation, are obliged to do everything necessary to understand. I'm not going to miss here to give you a line on the suggestion you've made a few times, about the fact that during the management of the ODS, the files were not revealed, and so on and so forth. And your MP, Metodi Andreev, from what political power was then elected President of the Commission on the files to ask me? And then who shut down this Commission? There's something else I want to tell you, very important, because it's being heard in public. There is a very famous speaker, a Democrat, with or without quotes, as you wish, since the beginning of the transition, whom you often invite to your events in that great hall to speak, who, with his voice in the Constitutional Court, has failed the Law on Files adopted in the autumn of 1997. The Constitutional Court has cancelled the texts to check the filing with the voice of this gentleman a famous lawyer. He is one of the most frequent speakers in your activities, and you should know this and not miss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u70	Second line, Mr. Metodi Andreev.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u71	I hesitated whether to get a line or a personal explanation, but I solved a line. In fact, what was said on the left and on the right is the truth. Indeed, during the ODS the first step was taken and the first Law was passed, but the truth is that during the ODS we did not do this work because of the lack of sufficient political will, and we all know it. This is where I have to commend Gen. Atanasov was one of the few people from the generality then who said that this Law does not endanger national security! The truth is that when GERB was established, for the first time during two mandates a centre-right party had a consistent policy on this issue! The truth is, for the first time, a central archive was created! That is why I tell my colleagues from BSP that their Law is unnecessary, as it is intended to have such a centralized archive! He's built! For the first time, this Commission has two mandates. For the first time! And in this Parliament you see that with the majority of GERB, the majority of the Reformist bloc, the centre-right majority regularly this topic is put in the focus of political attention! We always want to check the empathy of the important figures in the country in relation to the former services of the People's Republic of Bulgaria. However, the truth is that there is still no political hygiene in terms of new jobs. Only the will to do checks is not enough. We should really be as politicians who follow a policy, it should also be in terms of specific appointments. Since a specific person is what he is, and it has been proven that he was, we should avoid putting them in important places, which, unfortunately, is now having a relapse in certain services. This bill must by no means serve to oppose the centre-right majority on the contrary, it must unite it against the left! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Against those who want the truth about State Security to remain covered. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u72	Third line, Mr. Yanaki Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u73	Madam Chairman, Mr. Tsvetanov! Indeed GERB, as a party with a smaller political biography, may to some extent monitor the process and assess it. But I think there is also an important sociopsychological reason why you relatively consistently adhere to the application of this Law. The very retructuring of this party has links with the Ministry of Interior in this she sees a kind of rematch to the structures of State Security, which stood in a higher way. I think somehow part of this rematch needs to be completed, too, so that we can deal with the current problems of national security. Thank you. [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u74	That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u75	A hole, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I just want to make one clarification of Mr. Atanasov's line. I didn't say that at the time of the ODS were closed and there was no such desire. I said that the only political formation that really transmitted the information units from the structures of the Ministry of Interior in the Commission was in the management of GERB 2010. Over 1 million units! That's what we've done. To Mr. Yanaki Stoilov. I think what you said was wrong, but it's your political assessment. It is more important to me that since the very establishment of the Political Party GERB has been politically stated that this will be a consistent policy. Indeed, we have received public support for being principled and consistent in our political actions in every sector policy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u77	Mr. Velizar Enchev to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! At the very beginning, I will not declare a conflict of interest, as my belonging to the foreign intelligence of Bulgaria brings me only harm, not benefits, so I do not need to make this declaration. The closed session, honourable Members and honourable representatives of the Bulgarian media, at which you were not present, is the strongest argument in support of my Bill for closing the Commission on Files. I cannot say any more, but I can only say that this closed session fully confirmed my claims, which I have always made, and now I will repeat them again, that the Law on Files has caused irreparable consequences on the external intelligence network of Bulgarian intelligence in the Middle East, without entering into the specifics, and on the Balkans. The fact is that representatives of foreign intelligence, civilian and military, refused to answer my specific questions with the names of countries, regions, cases, to tell if I am lying, whether I am telling the truth, whether I am being misled, whether someone has deceived me by the information I have from former retired employees of NRS and military information. They didn't get up to say "no" or "no" or "no," or to disprove me directly and confirm that I am exporting false information and misleading the Members of the National Assembly at a closed session. So much for that. Here, honourable Members of GERB Party, with all due respect to you I say this, as you are not burdened by the left and right parts of the adoption of this Law on the Files of 2007, in your parliamentary group there are plenty of people, representatives of the secret services of two or three, there are investigators, there are from the right part of former junior prosecutors, and I am astonished that you of the GERB Party, who have the unique opportunity to correct this disaster for national security and to close down the Commission on the files by transferring its functions, as I said yesterday, to the three intelligence services of DANS, NRS and Military information, do not do so. You have the unique opportunity to continue the work of the Committee on Files, but under the strict control of the Bulgarian State and not of this Commission, which, once again, is traded in files, gives certain information to certain politicalists who come out in the media to compromise certain people. The first victim I said yesterday, I will say it today, was the former MP of the Union of Democratic Forces Asen Agov, who had nothing to do with the Bulgarian secret services, but in the case of information submitted by the Committee on Files, by the Director's Office, he was disgraced, or, more precisely, an attempt was made to be disgraced. This is called the file trade and is one of the arguments for the closure of the Commission on the files. I appeal to you, honourable colleagues from GERB, and I say once again: I rely on your discretion and on the opportunity to make a historic move by correcting this fatal error of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, which is the initiator of the Law and, of course, on the right part of the Chamber, which aclamated them in 2007. Over 50%, I say it most responsiblely, I did not say it during the closed session, so I do not export classified information, more than 50% of the current agents, secret and special, or open links of Bulgarian intelligence abroad are links of the intelligence officers before 1989. The information I have from retired officers, personnel of the NRS and Military Information. Then I ask: on what grounds do you open the files of personnel officers from intelligence, when the opening of their files understands the names of their agents? That's unreasonable! I do not use the term "treasonous betrayal" or any old phrases, as we have listened to these words and sometimes they have been lightened by content. What we are doing is madness that you have committed by the Bulgarian Socialist Party with this Law. Here I immediately replicate Mr. Angel Naydenov, who told me yesterday, addressing me that they have adopted this Law so that there would be no lustration, because if there were lustration, we would not be in this parliament. Yes, you are! In lustration, you can respond on a judicial basis and challenge the withdrawal of your rights, and in the current disgrace, a declaration of your name as a personnel officer, counterintelligence, intelligence, not to forget counterintelligence, you have no right to appeal, neither informed in advance, nor have the right to react in advance, nor post-factum can you react on a judicial basis. They've been taken from you, Mr. Naydenov, all civil rights! So Mr. Angel Naydenov is not right at all. And while BSP, in the face of the current leadership, does not pour ashes on its head for this criminal law, I will continue to claim that they are the chief responsible for breaking national security and not so much the right side of the room, which are supposedly anti-communist and believe that everything that comes from the left is bad. By the way, I would like to highlight something very important: more than 60% of the revealed officers from the Bulgarian Foreign Intelligence [[the President signals that time has run out]] They weren't in Soviet schools. This is particularly important. I'm talking to facts. Thank you for your attention. I had more to say, but apparently time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u79	Sorry, time's up. Any lines to Mr. Enchev? I won't. The word for speech is Mr. Rosen Petrov, after him Mr. Belemezov, after him Mr. Metodi Andreev. Probably not enough time today.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. I think there were a lot of true things on the left and on the right. Were there any patriots in Homeland Security? Of course, there were patriots who worked in the interests of Bulgaria. Were our services under Soviet authority? Of course they worked under Soviet services. Is it time for national reconciliation? It's been a long time for national reconciliation. Is the National Reconciliation Society ready? It's not ready. We live with our ghosts from the past and, unfortunately, some of these ghosts are quite real. As they say, a career is done with both brains and brains, but with a father, a general from DHS, even easier. In other words, there are still certain dependencies in our society. I believe from the BDS group that we do not support this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u81	Which one is it because we're discussing three in a joint debate?
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u82	Mr. Merdjanov's law. The bitter cup must be the final test, and only then will it be time for national reconciliation.
ParlaMint-BG_2016-09-01.u83	Any lines to Mr. Petrov? I won't. Colleagues, since there are several other MPs scheduled for a speech and we are in the final of today's plenary session, we will continue the debate on the draft laws discussed tomorrow. Now Parliamentary Control Message on September 2nd 2016 Friday 11:00 p.m.: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Kristian Vigenin. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva will answer two questions from the MPs Mariana Boyadjieva and Stoyan Mirchev; and Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova will answer five questions from the MPs Saliha Emin; Dimitar Delchev; Ivan Slavov Ivanov; Borislav Iglev; and Yavor Haytov. 4. The Minister of Health Petar Moskov will answer eight questions from the MPs Kiril Dobrev and Radoslav Stoychev; Villa Lilkov; Georgi Svilenski and Emil Raynov; Yavor Haytov two questions; Dimitar Tanev, Daniela Saveklieva and Yordan Andonov; Emil Raynov; and Sultanka Petrova and one question from the MPs Tuncher Kardzhaliev and Hasan Ademov. 5. The Minister of Culture Vejdi Rashidov will answer a question from the MPs Metodi Andreev, Petar Slavov and Martin Dimitrov and a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev. 6. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer three questions from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva and Georg Georgiev; Vasil Antonov; and Yavor Haytov. 7. The Minister of Defence Nikolay Nenchev will answer four questions from the MPs Yavor Haytov; Atanas Zafirov; Kancho Filipov; and Zhelyo Boychev. On the basis of art. 92, para. Art. 3 and Art. 95, para. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the MP Kiril Dobrev; - Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetoslav Belemezov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from MP Mithat Metin; - Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - three questions from the National Representative Georgi Kadiev to the Minister of Foreign Affairs Daniel Mitov two questions; and to the Minister of Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva; - a question from the MP Chavdar Georgiev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Lilyana Pavlova; - a question from the National Representative Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; - three questions from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov to the Minister of Health Petar Moskov; and to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Zornitsa Rusinova two questions; - a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Coordination of European Policies and Institutional Affairs and Minister of Education and Science Meglena Kuneva. Due to the lack of the country, the Parliamentary Control Meeting will not participate in the meeting. The Deputy Prime Minister for Coalition Policy and State Administration and Interior Minister Rumyana Bachvarova; the Foreign Minister Daniel Mitov; the Minister for Agriculture and Food Desislava Taneva. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for European Funds and Economic Policy Tomislav Donchev; the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and the Minister of Economy Bozhidar Lukarski will not participate. Due to prior commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. Due to participation in an international meeting, the Minister for Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Tomorrow a regular meeting will be held at 9:00 p.m. I'm shutting down the plenary day. [[PHONE RINGING]]
