tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we begin the negotiations, I'd like to pass along a brief piece of information on the rules we're going to follow today. In budget talks, you know, each group has a promise of 70 minutes. According to Article 60, I will meet the demands of the members of the group after each group's speech is completed. I'd like to ask the members of the group to understand. Otherwise, the group's speech integrity is also damaged, and the time is getting too long. I will again meet the demands of lawmakers from political party groups and MPs from parties who do not have a group by promising a minute to a member of parliament at the end of each section. If, of course, there is a demand for taunting, I will also evaluate it according to Article 69. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the seventh round today. In the seventh round, the Ministry of Industry and Technology, Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration, Regional Development Administration of the East Anatolian Project, Regional Development Administration, East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman, Small and Middle Scale Management Management Administration, Institute of Turkish Standards, Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency, Turkish Academy of Sciences, Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of the European Union, the Ministry of the European Union, and the budget of Turkey's Ministry for Development, and its exact accounts. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account Commission? He's in position. Members of parliament, according to the decision made, the duration of the talks on the tour will be five minutes each, given the promise to conduct to the political party groups and to express their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. For your information. In the seventh round, I take turns reading the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who took the words: Iİ PARTI: Ankara MP Koray Aydın, Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi, Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Fitz, Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli, Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel, Tripoli MP Hüseyin Örs, İstanbul MP İş Eriz, Ankara MP Ayhan Alttaş, Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Bursa MP Ahmet Kamil Erozan. AK PARTI: Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koçer, Denizli MP Şahin Tin, Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Ali Cevheri, Mus MP Mehmet Emin Simsek, Konya MP Ahmet Küçün, Samsun MP Fuat Koktaş, Shelley MP Radiye Sezer Kadircıoğlu, Mersin MP Hacı Özkan, Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak, İstanbul MP Şirin Ünal, Kilis MP Ahmet Salih Dal, Kayseri MP İsmail Emrah Karayel, İstanbul MP Ahmet Berat Köral, Gaza MP Mehmet Berat Körtoğlu, Gaza MP Mehmet Kirazoğlu. HDP: İstanbul MP Dilşat Canbaz Kaya, Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Taşçıer, Diyarbakır MP İmam Taşçıer, Adana MP Tulay Hatimoğlu Oruç, Şanlıurfa MP Nusrettin Maçin, Şanlıurfa MP Nimmetullah Erdoğmiş, Diyarbakır MP Hişyar Özsoy. CHP: Konya MP Abdulatif Sener, Denizli MP Kazım Arslan, Koneeli MP Tahsin Tarhan, Elazığ MP Gürsel Erol, Sivas MP Çatsu, Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üver, Tripoli MP Ahmet Kaya, Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek, Kayseri MP Çetin Arık, İzmir MP Ednan Arslan, Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, İstanbul MP sibel Özdemir. MHP: İstanbul MP İzzet Ulvi Gölter, Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz, Bursa MP Mustafa Hidayet Wahapoğlu, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın, Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir, İstanbul MP Cemal Çetin, İstanbul MP Arzur Erdem. Subjects: Lehte, İstanbul MP Zafer Kışkaya, against Manisa MP Free Special. Now, the first word is good PARTI Ankara MP Koray Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0002par0067	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Fine Party of the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. On this occasion, I salute your high council with respect. Dear friends, we have learned once again by accident that technology is important to human life as well as to the development of the country. In that terrible accident, we lost a very valuable scientist, who I knew very well, who had achieved worldwide. Professor Dr. Berahiddin Colonelrak, former Vice President of Ankara University, died in a high-speed train accident in Ankara with our other citizens, and we have many injured. I pray for the mercy of the Lord God to our citizens who died in the accident, and for the immediate healing of our wounded. It is also the political institution's duty to examine, investigate, analyze, and take preventive measures to investigate the causes of all these accidents. Let us not forget that train accidents are not natural disasters. So this must be done immediately by the administrative and judicial side. By the way, our Minister, our Minister, has made a statement that the system of signalation is not essential for the railway system. He said that the signalization system does not exist. Later, we read about it in the papers at the weekend, and this time I may have forgotten to change the scissors that were on duty at the time of the accident. Now, we have to warn you, dear friends, that the job of executives who take responsibility for this job is to build a system that will prevent accidents from happening, even if the scissor forgets to change. This is a duty for the rulers. If you're a high-tech high-speed train operator, you can't use the methods from a hundred years ago. The responsibility of this disaster cannot be closed by cutting into a temp who forgot to switch scissors. There is a need for understanding to assume political responsibility for this disaster because it has now become a fundamental problem for Turkey. In 2004, there was an accident, and we lost 51 people, and the engineer was responsible for it, and the case was closed. Likewise, in July, when we left, we had an accident in Chorus, where we lost 25 people. The rain was shown to be responsible for this, and they were told that the track had been empty and that there had been an accident. Meanwhile, the Chamber of Civil Engineers has done extensive research. It is not the rain that is responsible for this study, but those who have done it, those who have done it, and those who later caused this disaster by not setting up the mechanisms of control. So we have to ask from here, dear friends, what more does it take for a minister to resign when all this is going on, or a general manager to resign, what's going to happen, what's going to happen, and what's going to happen, and what's going to happen is that we're going to witness a day when they resign? It turns out that this political government is not in the habit of taking on political responsibility for everything. Remember, there was a co-operation with all of the country's institutions, all of its courts, all of its armies, and at the end of it, they were handed over so far that they were given power, power, support, all the doors were opened to this organization, and we didn't give them what they wanted, and we brought the country to July 15th. On the 15th of July, this great nation paid a heavy price, picked up the government that fell on the street, pulled it out of the street, and gave us 256 martyrs. So again, our nation has paid the price, the families of the martyrs, the relatives, but the political power has paid no price. We've seen a similar one before. With the so-called process of dissemination, the warning of everyone will be bad, look, Turkey is going to go to great trouble. Even though it is said, the solution process was filled with six bombs of Turkey's cities, and then our army, our military, took action, a battle was waged there with our police, and we gave hundreds of martyrs in the struggle to take it back for six or seven months, and they paid the price. Can you imagine, my dear friends, that we are faced with a political power that escapes from paying the political price, saying, "We have been deceived, we have been deceived, we have been deceived." What we're experiencing today is a work of understanding. Look, just one more reminder. Just last month, there have been new developments, and a new so - called solution process has begun? It brings to mind the question. Last month, a delegation headed by the ruling party in November went to Germany. They've made their own statement that they've been trading views on the federal system. Soon after, the wise men performed in Oslo. Oslo, as you know, is the first leg of the so-called solution process by the AKP government with the terrorist organisation Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). On February 28, 2015, Imralı, Kandil, finally reached the Dolmabahçe Covenant, and under the ten-point agreement prepared by Ocalan. Now, to the new Oslo talks, some of the names of the Smart People Committee, which the government commissioned to convince our nation of the so-called solution, met in Oslo in November last month. Can a solution process be started here after the election? These people discussed their talks there as guests of a terrorist organization in Oslo. Now, all of this brings to people's minds a question: Will power again return to understanding a solution process with the PKK after the election? Our people have the right to ask this question because the AK PARTI government has a very bad report card for cooperation with the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and has very bad impressions left behind. Mr. President, I've told you that in the age of science and technology, we need a series of progressive technical support to prevent high-speed train accidents, which I mentioned at the outset. The Ministry of Industry and Technology must be regulatory, controlling, guiding and supportive in all these areas. The only way for Turkey to capture high technology is for it to allocate resources to research and development, enough budgets. With the results of OECD in terms of GDP in terms of G.R.G.E.S. GDP GDP in countries such as Israel, Japan, Korea, America, while Turkey has not achieved even 1% in this regard. Every increase in RD spending increases the gross domestic revenue. In contrast, the decline in RD spending reduces GDP. The equation is that simple. Turkey must continue to support RD projects and make these projects widespread throughout the country, and its way is to manage strategic institutions such as TÜBITAK, ASELSAN, HAVELSAN, with a more transparent, more biased mentality. This and such institutions, particularly the pupil of the country's defence industry, need to be governed by a method based on expertise, not on solidarity, because these institutions are the future of the country. Politicalization of scientific institutions will only undermine the science of the country. Dear friends, in view of my deadline, I would like to conclude that you cannot build technology and industry without research, without development. You can't produce without industry, you can't create employment, you can't export without employment, you can't grow without exports, you can't achieve the level of modern civilization without growth. The knot of our country's problems today lies in these words. As I end my words with these feelings and thoughts, he wishes the budget of 2019 to be good luck and good luck to our country and our nation, and on behalf of the Good PARTI Group, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0003par0080	Thank you, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0004par0081	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0003par0082	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0004par0083	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to answer some of the Hatib's accusations from my position according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0003par0084	Mr. Turan, I didn't see any bullying, but he used words that demanded an explanation. You have the right to say so according to 60, but as I have stated in the beginning, I will meet your right after the speech of the Good PARTY Group is completed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0004par0085	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0003par0086	Thank you. Anthalya MP Feridun Bahshi. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0005par0091	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. I salute you all. On Thursday, as the Penal and Execution Institutions and the Prisons Business Institution budget was being discussed, I had expressed the demands of the execution guard's rights from this platform, and had not been able to mention the legal staff due to the time limit, and since I have been coming from within the profession, I have been heavily reproached and requested. That's why I've been promised to address the difficulties of the court staff today. Law and justice are essential to societies. In a country where there is no justice system or in which it is malfunctioning, there is no talk of development or development. Justice is the only value that can sustain our country during this difficult time of our country. The removal of merit in public institutions has led our country to the July 15th betrayal process. Every year, the openings of the judicial year bring up the shortcomings of our justice system, but justice workers, the essential elements of justice's operation, are forgotten in these statements. The heavy workload, the lack of staff and lack of economic and social rights, demoralizes employees. Editors, clerks, clerks, bailiffs, technical services class and other assistant services classes, which have been often remembered by the Ministry of Justice, who shouldered a large portion of the workload of low wages and workloads in dusty archives without looking for overtime. The Ministry of Justice must fully address the problems of the judicial system, make improvements and arrangements for all employees. I'm going to share with you and the public some of the problems that the judicial staff has been complaining very heavily about and expecting us to solve. Before we get into any problems, I have to say in the first place that under State Officers Act 657, the class of justice services must and all court officials must be included in this class. Again, all of the clerks should be given a data preparation and control management staff under the supervision of computers, allowing these staffs to pass without exams. The improvements before the class of justice services are always temporary, and so far they haven't been able to come up with a solution. Dear lawmakers, employees outside the executive managers of the courthouses are launched without service training, and they are not subject to any vocational training for their profession while they are working. None of the employees of the court have any training of their own, and there is no way to advance on a reasonable mission. Again, in the same way, the editors who won the in-house upgrade exam are not given post-assignment training. This application must be changed and the forensic staff must first be trained, then started with job descriptions, and should not be employed outside of any staff work, and should be again trained after appointment. In addition, in the periodic periodic period of service training, the staff in the country must establish unity in the implementation and have quick briefing meetings after the amendments to the legislation. Dear friends, if it's possible to rank a salary among officers in our country, court employees are now at the lowest level of this ranking because neither court clerks nor prosecutors or editors are paid very little because they have no expertise or titles. Legal personnel whose title and adjectives are not defined are responsible for cases and investigation files that are of value that cannot be measured with any material value. Employees who work at such a risk are not paid to pay labor risk compensation, as are other professions, which must be paid. The additional indicators of managers working at other institutions were 3,000, while the additional indicators of the chief editors of the court are 2,200. Our request is that the additional indicator be corrected at 3,600 for the editors, 3,000 for the clerks, and 2200 for all other courthouse employees, including the bailiff. The overtime paid at other institutions must be made clear and made a rule on whether or not the duty fee should be paid to court employees. The court staff are entering the courthouses with potential criminals, and there is no safety at all. Therefore, employment risk compensation should definitely be included in the rights of equity. There are many dangers during the foreclosures they are forced to perform, and there is no limit to their disbelief, threats, and insults. Adding to the work density of the apartments, there's nothing more natural than the loss of their share of work and their job risk compensation. As it is known, investigations into crimes stemming from the duties of state officials are carried out according to Law 4483. According to this, in order for a criminal investigation of the officer to be conducted, the relevant superiors must give the consent. There's only one exception, and he's the editor-in-chief, executive director, clerk-in-chief and bailiff who works at the Justice Department. It is possible to conduct a direct criminal investigation of these without permission, which is more likely that these personnel will be investigated as well as any other officers, because they are subject to general procedure as to the procedure of the editor-in-chief, executive director, clerk-in-chief, clerk-in-chief's rights of 657, as part of the State Officers Act. It must be abandoned. The bailiffs who work at the courthouses are also in the assistant service class. This situation must be changed and the bailiffs must be taken into the general administrative service class immediately. Officials serving at public institutions in Turkey have the right to get a green passport by coming to the third degree, while some of the court staff are unable to get a green passport because they are unable to get a third degree. This problem must also be resolved. Court employees do not have a standard ID card. These identity cards should be standardized by justice commissions or by the Ministry of Justice and distributed to all personnel. Dear lawmakers, court staff are constantly seeking alternatives because there are no regulations for their rights, and as soon as they have the opportunity and opportunity, they go to institutional change. In order to prevent this, justice services and the legal staff's situation must be improved to an adequate extent. As a result, it should be known that the fulfillment of the issues mentioned above will be the basis for the work that will provide for the future development of the judiciary, the age and the ministry. The ability to run justice services within a regular system can be carried out by economic and social-enhanced court staff.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0006par0106	What budget is that?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0005par0107	Is something wrong? ▪ Justice is not justice at the time. All employees acting on the slogan must be given the title of data preparation control management and remove these outdated titles. In short, we want justice for the workers of justice. I hereby salute the great Turkish nation, our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0007par0111	Thank you, Mr. Bahshi. Now, it's time for Gaziantep MP Imam Hussein Flitz. Here you go, Mr. Flitz. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0008par0116	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on the budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration of the Central Management Budget Law 2019. My compliments to the General Assembly. The GAP project, launched in 1976 in Southeast Anatolia; Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak, is the most comprehensive, costly project in our Republic history. It is the most effective of regional development programmes ever prepared. This project aims to address inter-state differences at a national level of economic development, with a regional development approach. Dear MPs, when you say GAP, the architect of this project comes to mind, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, our 9th President. I cherish him. I thank all the politicians who have worked so hard for this project over the years, but especially our engineers and other employees, and I wish the dead mercy and the living health. When 22 dams, 12 hydropower plants, and the GAP, all spread out into a large area like 10 per cent of our country, it is estimated that 1.82 million hectares will be irrigated, that 27 billion kilowatts/hour hydroelectric energy will be produced annually and that it will meet much of our country's energy needs. So far, an important portion of the dams that have been included in the Gap has been completed. In Adıyaman, construction of Cetintepe, Koçali, and Gömuk dams appears to be under way. The Ilisu Dam in Hasankeyf is not yet complete. By the way, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to convey the problem with Ardil Dam. The dam cannot be watered yet because there is no rain; the villagers, the farmers there have complaints, and I want the authorities to consider it. It is also expected by your car, the Chalt Strait Dam, your car, and the villagers of the region who have returned to the story of the snake in Caran district. If this dam is built, 130,000 acres of land will be watered. Currently, 503,000 hectares have been watered, but some 1,300,000 hectares are still expected to be watered in the GAP region. Although there has been good energy production progress, the irrigation has been far behind the plan -- in other words, only 25 per cent of the waterable land available is watered. Unemployment continues as a problem in the GAP region. Although the GAP was also scheduled to provide jobs for 3.8 million people when it was finished, unfortunately, according to TİİİK (TİK) labour force statistics in 2017, employment rate is 28.2 per cent in Mardin, Batman, Şırnak and Siirt. The unemployment rate is 26.9 per cent. And if you bring the Syrians into this, it'll tell you how bad it is. Local cities are unhappy with tradesmen, peasants, farmers and small-income citizens. Fertilizer, fuel prices, the lack of goods, increased inflation, and the cost of living has made people tired of living, livestock is regressed. Unplanned agriculture continues. There is no sustainable plan. Grandpa's understanding is that if one year is too much for one product, the next year, everyone goes into bankruptcy on the same crop, when supply is more than demand, and without paying for it. The most typical example of this is that there are 30,000 acres of garlic planted in our district of Carman, and the garlic produced at 2 kilograms per kilo has not been sold to 1 TL. It has been left to rot in the hands of the farmer. As a result, even though the payment period came this year, garlic manufacturers were unable to pay their debts to the Agriculture Bank. This shouldn't be the fate of our people. The government must be a guide, develop new production models, and most importantly, RD studies. Two days ago, when I was talking about colleges, I said colleges should have a mission. The University of Haran, located at the heart of the GAP, should, for example, do RD studies that will lead agriculture in the GAP, and help develop agriculture-related industry. The same is true of other universities in the region. That's the way it is in the developed countries of the world. There are universities that have a master's degree and a master's degree, training for the agriculture and service sector. They teach by doing boots on teachers' feet, by wearing aprons on their backs, by applying them personally.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0009par0127	Here, complete it, Mr. Flitz.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0008par0128	We can do the same thing, but not with the farmers who keep flowers in their room. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share a statement with you. Many years ago, we went to a factory in Şanlıurfa, where they built agricultural equipment. There was nothing missing from the factory. Tornado countertops, freze countertops, presses, even painthouses. The painthouse was the same as the painthouses in TOFAŞ, but only water tankers were made in this factory. So that the press doesn't work, and the tops are covered, and the sledges of the tornadoes and the freze counters don't move because they haven't been cleaned and the painthouse doesn't work. Here's a good example of how you can't get anywhere with people with no sense of responsibility, no conscience. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0010par0132	I'll give you one more minute to make your commitment, and then I won't be able to extend it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0008par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Over. Dear lawmakers, the Netherlands's 100-square-square-mile measurement in agriculture is only 41,000 square miles, and the land to be watered in the GAP is 18,200 square miles. The Dutch exports in 2017 are $100 billion, and Turkey's exports of agricultural products are $14 billion. The Netherlands' success in agriculture is caused by long-term sustainable agricultural policies, efficient production model, R-E, cooperativeisation, marketing, market control. Congressmans, this project, which is of great importance to our country, unfortunately, has not seen the necessary gratitude from power, and has not been completed for it. The budget in 2019 is 88 million TL, 78 million of these 88 million were placed in the dwelling and community service pen; it appears that the GAP is still on its way, but with an ant speed. I'm done with my promises. I wish this budget to our nation, to our country, to the best of it, to the best of it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0011par0138	Thank you, Mr. Flitz. It is now time for Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0012par0143	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2019 of the President of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration. I salute you. The purpose of the DAP Regional Development Administration's presidency can be defined as the planning and implementation of public investments. There are 15 municipalities in the scope of the administration's activities. The administration was established on a five-year deadline with a KHK released in 2011, and its mandate was extended until the end of 2019 because it did not reach its goals. Despite its extension, are the goals set to be fulfilled? I don't think so. Because the administration's budget for $200 million has been reduced to $90 million. With this budget, our region's development policies are unsustainable. I'd like to point out that the unfinished administration has not carried out enough of its activities. The Court report said there were co-ordination problems between the DAP Administration and development agencies in the region, such as the East Anatolia Development Agency. That is because there is no clear legal legislation that regulates the responsibilities of the administration and the agency. Agencys make regional plans, the administration co-ordinates public investments, but since authority and responsibilities are not organised, both institutions provide financial support for similar projects in this complex structure. As a result, low efficiency is evident, with the waste of resources. It slows down heavy bureaucratic construction processes that still haven't even entered the digital system in broad geography. In Erzurum, my hometown, which is the capital of Eastern Anatolia, my countrymen are concerned about their future. Erzurum, who has been leading the leading cities in Turkish history, is unfortunately unable to repay the sacrifice he has made. The adoption of eastern Anatolian provinces, primarily Erzurum, may result in difficult and dire consequences. I'm afraid that tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, the immigration issue will be a national security issue. People don't leave their land and their homes because of the opportunities in which they migrate, but because of the poverty and misfortune in their own homes, they leave their eyes behind. The economic and social cost-resistant areas in areas of migration are far higher than the cost of development. It will be both healthier and more economical to solve the problem in the region, which gives us an exodus instead of an expensive way to solve the problem in the area that is migrating. In terms of our country's security and unity, differences in inter-state development should be reduced to minimal. It is an important economic centre, but Erzurum, the heart of East Anatolia, receives less than 1% of the national income. Public investments in Erzurum have been significantly lower than the total investment average in Turkey. Erzurum, the most tax-paying province in the Eastern Anatolian region, has no way of explaining how low it has been for public investments in the past 15 years. If Erzurum is like this, think about other Anatolian provinces. The facilities, such as the unfinished dams in Eastern Anatolia, must be restored to the national economy at once. Special discounts should be applied to prevent migration in the East Anatolian region, primarily Erzurum, and in natural gas. With the wrong policies in recent years, the livestock sector in Kars, Erzurum and the East Anatolian region is uncertain. Small enterprises, which are the source of the living animal, must be supported, and the development of animal infrastructure must be weighted as soon as possible. Rich mera fields providing important input in the area's animalism need to be reformed. The vocational training institutions of agriculture and animalism must be used actively. The people of the region must be trained. Attractive means must be given to return to the land that people have abandoned. Then look, will you need to import animals and red meat to be ashamed of? Dear lawmakers, supporting the plant of food produced along with them contributes to the development of the region's economy. Sugar factories in the region have been brutally sold, completely ignoring animalism and general employment as well as life benefits. This is the final betrayal of the region. Let's prioritize investments in the genetic code of our cities in the region. Actions such as culture, health, congress, winter tourism should be encouraged. The opportunities for regional youth to engage in their skills in science, culture, art and sports should be given. In Erzurum and East Anatolia, the young population above the Turkish average is unhappy and desperate.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0013par0154	Tie up your vows, Mr. Cinisli. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0012par0156	Thank you. When I ask my young brothers who have studied or graduated from college about their goals, their answer is, "I want to go out of the country." The young man in Erzurum is targeting Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir, not directly abroad. When I asked him why, the answer I got was: "We are unhappy and desperate, we are tired. This point is sad. It's a shame about youth and country. There's no need to say more after this sample. Sixteen years of governments have never done anything to make the region happy and the young people of our future happy. I'll tell you what they've done: it's nothing more than exploiting the precious, national and spiritual values of our youth. The only thing expected in return are the votes they'll vote for. In this framework, rather than discussing the budget that has been divided into institutions and unfortunately reduced, I would recommend changing the mentality of the region, rehabilitating it. I hope that the Eastern Anatolian region will be addressed in a collective manner, with a rational state policy, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0014par0160	Thank you, Mr. Cinisli. Dear lawmakers, the other word for the PARTI Group now belongs to Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0015par0165	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on behalf of the budget of the Council of Ministers, the precious Commission, the valued MPs, the great Turkish nation; the Office of the Plains of Iconium, the Chairman of the Regional Development Administration. I salute you all. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have been established to develop areas covered by these projects, provided that investments in the KOP region of Kırşehir, Kırşehir, Kökşehir, Kop Aksaray, Karaman, Konya, Niğde, Nevşehir, Kırşehir districts are covered by research, planning, programming, projecting, monitoring, evaluation and co-ordination services. It's called KOP in the region, and it's a need for agriculture, farms, and water. However, when we look at the activities of the KOP, we see that he has not done anything but help a few schools, a couple of agricultural training programmes, and a recent nation's workshop. The region, on the other hand, has the greatest expectation of resolving the problems of watering agriculture. The province of Aksaray, as in the Central Anatolian Region, has much of its livelihood from agriculture. In the region of Aksaray, which we call the desert in particular, Eskil, Eşmekkaya, Sultanhani, Yenikent, Yeşiltepe, Yeşilova, Ulukış, and around it, citizens meet the need for water from underground water in agriculture. After years of unconscious and brutal irrigation, underground water supply is now running out. The underground water that has been removed from 50 metres before is no longer more than 500 feet [50 m], and the water that comes out is saltwater. In the areas where water is poured out to water the field, the saltwaters of the Salt Lake come, and when the citizen draws water, the saltwaters of the Salt Lake face irrigation of his field, so this region is in danger of being desert and barren in the future. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers were being brought to the site of what we call the Baysaray submersible from the Mamasun Dam, with open channels used in agriculture, the government tried to turn them into closed systems, but it succeeded in a 1,600-metre area, and since it failed to do so in the remaining areas, there is uncertainty about whether it could be given water to this region during the next farming season in the Bayırray. Topakkaya, Teklıkaya, Ağpınar, Sapmaz, Baymiş, Yeşiltepe, Ulukış, Sarayhan, Altınkaya, Yeşilova, and their villages in this region, were having second thoughts about whether to plant or not. More sunflowers, corn, clover, and beets are produced in this area. These agricultural products are impossible to grow without water. We expect KOP to solve the water problem until we deliver cakes, deliver tea, and deal with linoleum. KOP has to solve these problems by serving its purpose. The only way to quench the thirst in the region is to quench the thirst in agriculture: According to us, there is the Hirfanite Dam, which is 100km away from Aksaray, which is the easiest and most economic solution to bringing water from here to the region by pipes. Because the Chinese in our Sultanhanı district have brought water from the Hirfanlı Dam with their pipes to the natural gas storage area. We think the state of the Republic of Turkey -- stronger, stronger -- is able to bring more water from the lake where a Chinese company brings water. Again, Aksaray has natural caves in the Ekecik mountains, especially the village of the baby, and at the foot of Hasandaku. If access to these caves is facilitated, it will become a natural storage facility. Thus, our citizens' onions, potatoes, citruses will be economically preserved here. But, as I said in the beginning, the apartment we call KOP, instead of solving these things, is on the way to building three national forgeries in Aksaray. As the dwelling of the righteous, the righteous, and the righteous, Aksaray are called the land of the good, the land of the righteous, the land of the righteous. So if its resources, natural, of course, are well-used, its cultural heritage will get enough of tourism. Although serving tourism is one of the purposes of KOP.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0016par0172	Here, complete it, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0015par0173	...we haven't been able to see the contribution of KOP (KOP) to Aksaray tourism until today. But I'm saying that even if the investments in the beautiful land and the valley of Selima and the valley of Ihlara had been made, the necessary arrangements would have become the apple of the eye of Turkey and of the world at Aksaray tourism. I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0016par0176	Thank you, Mr. Erel. In order to speak, the Republican MP is Hüseyin Öres. Here you go, Mr. Anres. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0017par0181	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have made a pledge on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group to speak briefly on the budget of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration, and I salute you all with my deepest respect. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to start by saying the last thing I'm going to say in advance. Turkey has only one regional development project, and its name is the GAP Project of Southeast Anatolia. The East Anatolia Project, established in 2011 with the KHK, is literally far from regional development management, compared to the DAP, the KoP, the East Black Sea Project, the DOKAP regional development administration. They're meant to take the hearts of the region, so to speak. I'd like to draw your attention to the following findings in SWOT Analysis, which are part of the 2017-2021 Regional Development Administration strategic plan. In this analysis, it is said that the ability to employ experienced staff is limited. The institution's budget is insufficient to meet regional needs and envisioned actions. The capacity and sanction power required to carry out tasks given by KHK No. 624 is not at the required level. The current monitoring and evaluation system does not have a technological-based, efficient control structure. The position of the presidency within the bureaucratic structure in the region has not been explicitly defined. The activities of the DOCAP Action Plan are not clear as part of some actions. The institution does not have the authority, personnel and institutional capacity to carry out these tasks, despite duties imposed on the institution in its assessment of its own. The agency will plan and project, but it doesn't have anyone to plan and project. In that sense, the institution is a fuzuli chagil, which means it's in unnecessary busyness; it's a cashew, which means the engine is spinning for nothing. AS the most important project in the DOKAP strategic plan, the Green Path Project is shown to connect Samsun to Artvin. The route will be planned, the crooked construction will be prevented, and the environment will be protected. However, this goal of the DOCAP Regional Development Administration has lost meaning, given that the government has made all sorts of distorted structures legal with the Imar Affi. The government's implementation of environmental protection and the objectives of the DOC Regional Administration are seriously conflicted. Therefore, no matter what goals are set, the institution has little chance of doing so. Dear lawmakers, let me tell you this: Does the President of the DOKAP Regional Development Administration's appointment as General Manager before this mission, and then the nomination for the mayor of Sakarya in this local elections also bring to mind the question, "Is there a political warehouse, authority by the government?" I salute you all with the utmost respect.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0018par0188	Thank you, Mr. Anvil. Next is the speech of Manisa MP Tamer Akkal. Here you go, Mr. Akkal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0019par0193	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the well-being party, under the plans and budget talks of the year 2019. At the beginning of my words, I wish this budget to be good for our country, our nation, and our state. In this period of our country's severe economic crisis, we speak for our nation in the 2019 budget. But when we look at the pages, the lines of this budget, we can't see our hard-earned citizens, the Turkish people who can't pay their rent, their bills, their credits, our tradesmen who shut down their shop without paying. Again, when we look at the pages of this budget, we don't see pensioners, pensioners, civil servants, and their problems. Teachers, minimum wagers, students, workers, and public servants can't hear their own problems in the talks here; they don't believe it's for them, unfortunately, anymore. Our farmer, whose harvest remains in the field, who cannot pay off his debt to harvest, is not able to hear the echoing sound in this House. He talked about many oratories, numbers, institutions, examples that spoke before me. Let's put aside the statistics for a moment and see what the citizen has to say. Last week, a citizen asked me to bring up the electricity bill he couldn't pay in Manisa. This bill, which is worth 51 liras of energy, goes up to over 90 liras with a TRT share, with a TRT share. If this Parliament is for our nation, if we are paid here to solve our nation's problems, let us immediately remove the disgrace of distribution price, the TRT share; let us not take the VAT from the minimum-payers, pensioners; let our people bring more bread to their homes with this 40 lira added to the $50 bill. Let's not see too much of this for the people we represent, the people we're responsible for serving. Let's talk about the budget of our people. Honourable lawmakers, I'm sure the ruling ranks feel that this heavy tax burden on our people must be lifted. But people didn't send you here to think, they sent you here to do things. Everywhere we go, we see the helplessness of our unemployed young people, the hope that their families put on them. Our young people, who have read with great difficulty, who have graduated with great hard work, are looking for work, looking for food, looking for bread. Our universities -- I'm sorry to say -- are now back in the unemployment storage facility. We live in a country that exceeds 5 million young unemployment. If a young person wants to become an academic, he has to find some strings from the dean or dean, if he wants to become an officer, he has to get some strings from the mayor or the MP, and if he's looking for a job at the factory, he has to bring a letter of recommendation from the head of the EC PARTI district. There's no justice and rights in the private sector, there's not enough employment. Why steal the most important years of these brothers' lives if we can't open up jobs for them, if we can't create new sectors with qualified growth? Why are we wasting the efforts of these brothers and sisters and their families? Our young are precious, they are our children. It is our responsibility to build a country where they will live in peace, where they will look to the future with confidence. We must carry out this mission without delay, starting now, building a prosperous Turkey, a country where our young people look to the future with confidence. Respected lawmakers, another matter I've been focusing on so far, and I'm going to continue to stop after that, Soma. Look, all of the dozens of mines operating in this county are inadequate, all of which have security weaknesses. There's been an accident recently at the Soma Coal Company Light mine, and we have wounded. The same companies that run the Eynez Mining Room, where the cave-in took place are the same ones, the same ones who are responsible. The questions we made about the mining accidents here weren't answered yesterday, and today, unfortunately, they're not. In the latest incident, neither the victims nor the unions were able to speak, but the facts of money and threats were suppressed again. The fact is that the gallery where the accident took place is a gallery where people work before it's finished. The chimney is not fully complete, and the water leak from the top floor has crushed its support foot from the center and prepared a possible disaster as a result of a leak of water and coal mud called "slam" inside.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0020par0200	Go ahead and finish, Mr. Akkal.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0019par0201	This is just one chain of neglects that exist in almost all of the mines in Soma. I'm warning you from here that if any of our fellow miners get a nosebleed as a result of these neglects, we owe it to us to answer for it from this bench. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0020par0204	Thank you, Mr. Akkal. Next is Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin. Here you go, Mr. Sezgin. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0021par0209	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a promise on behalf of the good PARTI Group on behalf of the National Department of Defense budget. At the very beginning of my speech, I must point out that our national defense is an area where our party is highly sensitive, and Turkey's national security is our top priority. Therefore, we are carefully and carefully committed to the understanding that our national defense should be kept away from any kind of political polarity. We voted in favour of the National Ministry of Defense budget in the Plan and Budget Commission, and we hold that position. However, we also see and criticize the grave errors and shortcomings of power in these matters, and as they happen, we will continue our warnings and criticisms, and we will continue to express them. What is the status of our national security at this point in 16 years of EC PARTY power? Mr. President's daily statements, statements from the power bloc's spokes, national Security Council statements and observations of plain citizens say that we are exposed from east to west, north to south, and within our country against our national security interests, we are under heavy risk and threat. During the Republic of Turkey, there were no such constant, dynamic and grave dangers, except for the very special conditions of World War II. It is irresponsible to place responsibility solely on international developments, hostile foreign forces and inside collaborators. A state's primary duty is to protect the country's security interests and to minimize the dangers. And if that doesn't work, then the people who run that state are either a danger, or the driver's license is weak, or he doesn't have the power to deter. We believe that the risks and threats surrounding Turkey stem from 16 years of AK PARTI power from our own mentalism and mistakes. We think the lack of democracy deepens it, and we are deeply concerned that the one-man regime will make it worse. Today's threats are the result of yesterday's mistakes and a mindset that is far from the truth. If power now has the will to pursue a sound and stable national security policy, it must first acknowledge and declare this causal relationship in the order. At the time of Mr. Bulali Yıldırım's government, some government spokesmen are inconclusive and insincere that a mistake has been made in Syria to bring responsibility to a single person by criticizing the decisions of previous governments. It must be admitted that the mistake is the collective responsibility of power. Those who drove Turkey into the Syrian crisis are the ones who ruled Turkey; they did not listen to those who opposed it. The power that ruled Turkey that day is the same power that rules today. So today, some of the questions about Syria, which poses the greatest threat in short, medium, and long-term damage to our country's security interests, need to be able to give credible answers. It is the Parliament's right to ask these questions, and it is the power's duty to answer them. Answering these questions properly is also necessary in terms of mitigating the damage we face, limiting risks and threats. For example, on what merits and goals were it taken to side with the Syrian crisis? Why has the ear been blocked by persistent suggestion and warnings that we should change attitudes from the fall of 2012, otherwise we would face great threats? They were both voiced in Turkey and from the countries of the United States, Russia and the European Union. Why were predictions of Iran's dangerous influence, that terrorist Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) had different plans, that a second Afghanistan could take place on our border? In order to fight, we need people who are at war. Why did they cooperate with unfavorable organizations on the Syrian floor? What issues have been discussed in the May talks of Washington of 2013 by Prime Minister Erdogan? What is Turkey's share in the settlement of such different and rival foreign forces to Syria? We have, of course, supported the Battle of Firat and the Battle of Afrin, which our heroic army has made in order to eliminate threats from the failures of power and contribute to peace, and we are proud of the success that has been achieved. Members of parliament, the position and approach of the United States in the northeast of Syria is wrong and unacceptable, and should no longer be shadowed. The terrorist is Menbic versus PYD/YPG, east of Fırat, and we will surely support the action and actions necessary for our national security, which is already delayed. This is a black op, and we wish our soldiers well and well. We await the return of Suleiman Shah Temple to the land of the Republic of Turkey, its original and eternal place. But we need to know how and why we came to these points, and we need to hear it from power. Moreover, real answers to these and some other questions contribute to such actions before each election. However, even when danger bells are ringing again in Idlib, there are still no satisfying answers to the questions of terrorists, violent radical groups, where heavy weapons will go and what inventory will be recorded. I want to thank the Minister for the seriousness of his written answers to some of the questions I asked in the Commission. In one reply, the NATO Treaty stated that it contains a valuable security guarantee for Turkey, that our NATO membership is part of our international identity. How, though, does it seem to us to be so important to our safety, that we have contributed so much, so important to us, that such tensions may or may have been experienced with certain members of NATO (e.g. NATO) who care so much about us? Some of the EC PARTY's representatives, ideological devices, media, are able to present Turkey in constant and structural conflict with both these countries and NATO. Using the term the Minister used, does he not have an identity tent? Or are some of them playing a game here? I would also like to address our military relations with our neighbor Russia directly or indirectly, north of us, east and south of us. Russia is a big and serious state, and friendship is important. We must also keep our relations with this country open to the horizon of moving forward by consolidating our relations with it on the basis of mutual national interests, but Turkey should not give the impression that it is a country that is not a country that is subject to Russia. This should apply in terms of our relations in all geography. In some circles, unpleasant comments are made, which is hurtful. On the other hand, the restoration of the balance of power in the Black Sea and the possible tensions between Russia and Ukraine as a result of the recent crisis are crucial. Speaking of Russia, I also have to mention the S-400 project. The issues discussed were that the S-400 would not be compatible with NATO's inclusive position in our air defence system, and the possibility that this system would affect NATO-compatible air and missile defence project with EUROSAM. And the problem with the delivery of F35 planes, which we are third-level partners with the S-400. This is unfair, but there are grave implications in the public summary of the Pentagon's report for the U.S. Congress on this issue. They're going to be able to affect our capacity in many ways and at the front.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0022par0219	Here, make your promises, Mr. Sezgin. Here, I'll give you a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0021par0221	I don't want to make a claim here about the choice of the S-400 project and its possible outcome, but I can't help but think about it again. Members of parliament, we will, of course, side with the will to show the highest level of determination towards concrete projects and developments against our rights and interests in the Aegean Sea and the East Mediterranean, which have been expressed in the latest MGK declaration. In the same statement, it is of course important that no development will be allowed against the interests of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. However, as in all areas that concern our national security interests, we remind power once again that it is a duty to evaluate these issues with the opposition closer to consultation and national consensus, that the steps in the field of national security should be taken through delusions and internal policy concerns, and that we trust the institutional mind, experience, and equipment of our Armed Forces in this framework.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0022par0224	Here, put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0021par0225	Of course, I'd like to address the destruction of the AKP in Turkey and our Armed Forces, the closure of a number of educational institutions, and then I can't do that because of the lack of time between our military system and the distinction between martyr families and veterans that can't be made fair and permanent. On the contrary, I'll have the Minister and the Ministry take care of these matters again. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0022par0228	Thank you, Mr. Sezgin. Now it's time for Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş. Here you go, Mr. Goldstone. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0023par0233	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to talk to you about the provisions of the budget law and the Turkish Academy of Sciences. The Turkish Academy of Sciences has a small budget. Basically, it supports young scientists, gives awards, encourages them. In this respect, I must say, the TUBA-GEBIP program was particularly successful. Inflation is expected between 20 per cent and 40 per cent, however, in an environment where the exchange rate increases by about 50 per cent, raising the TUBA budget by only 2 per cent means that the government reduces its support for the scientific work of the TÜBA by at least 20 per cent. Therefore, the budget of TUBA 2019 is insufficient. TÜBITAK was founded in 1963, especially in natural sciences, to encourage basic and applied academic research. On July 7, 2005, the name of Law 5376 was changed to "Technological" (Technology), which was adopted, adding industrial support to its mission in order to develop technology. In addition, social and human sciences were included in the institution's field of duty. TUBITAK has a special place in me. I met TÜBITAK in 1972, when I was 14. Forty-six years have continued in my relationship with work, such as the scholarship clerk, the project referee, the project manager, the Defense Technologies Research Group member, the Science Awards Juror until I ran for Congress. I regret to see that TÜBITAK's budget for 2019 was envisioned for a 6 per cent reduction, not an increase according to the budget for 2018. With science and technological developments getting faster and faster today, the reduction of the TUBITAK budget is the best proof of the economic crisis. TÜBITAK is still a project-sponsored and carried out by both projects and institutions within it. With the establishment of new institutions over time, about 40 per cent of the TÜBITAK budget is used in institutions. Projects need to be given in competitive and equal conditions for everyone. I think it would be more appropriate for institutions to go to a structure such as the Fraunhofer Institute in Germany, outside TÜBITAK, to ensure this environment. I also think it would be better if the annual performance of these institutes and their three-year strategy were evaluated by an independent advisory committee from outside the institution. UNIVERSE-industrial cooperation -- one of TÜBITAK's main goals -- has not fully matured in our country. The university finds the industrialist's job description academically inadequate, and the industrialist thinks the university is far from the truth. You know, there are ten degrees of technology preparation definitions in technology development. The universities are doing research at the first two or three digits of these levels, and the industry is interested in making the product ready for market, starting at level 7. Our institutions, tests and calligraphy labs, which will shut down levels four, five, six, and six, are inadequate. TÜBITAK institutes can be integrated into independent institutions to fill the gap together with both university and industry. In recent times, evolutionary theory debates have come to the attention of projects that have developed but are far from science, which have damaged our religion as much as science. TÜBİTAK will not be involved in these discussions, it is necessary to improve further with procedures based on its appointment, to increase project support, to reduce bureaucracy in project monitoring. Today, the revolution of science and technology is fast in the world. Today we face the problems of scientific revolutions that Ottomans could not see and were left behind. That's why we have to move forward and accept science as a disciple. In my speech on the SEC budget, I stated that the universities' 2019 budgets were inadequate. In this environment, the existence and support of institutions such as TUBITAK and TUBA, which support scientific work, is becoming much more important. The constraint of these budgets will want to do academic studies, especially to increase the brain drain of our young researchers, creating an environment that will not be enough to bring valuable academics from abroad into our country. Ten years ago, there was a significant inverse brain drain from abroad to Turkey. One of the main reasons was that TUBITAK supports were significantly increased.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0024par0244	Here you go, Mr. Goldstone. Finish your words, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0023par0246	In 2019, the budget for TÜBITAK and TÜBA, which was envisioned for our scientists, was inadequate for the purposes of developing the country's science and technology, such as promoting research, providing support for materials and equipment needs, and more on international platforms, and yet I offer my regards to our country and our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0024par0248	Thank you, Mr. Goldstone. The last word on behalf of the Good PARTI Group is from Lord Ahmet Kamil Erozan. Here you go, Mr. Erozan. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0025par0253	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, before we get to the bottom of this, I'd like to begin by greeting the State Department's poor, loyal and courageous officers. It is difficult to make professional definitions of the officers of our State Department, one of the main institutions of the state. It's not really a profession, it's not day and night, it's a way of life. Sometimes the places of duty are like the front, where there's a risk of being in the middle of a war or being a terrorist target. The number of our martyrs can be expressed by them. It takes guts to be a State Department officer. This courage applies not only to the working officer, but also to his wife and children. In return for these sacrifices, after some 40 years of service, one day he comes and knocks on your retirement door. It was sad, those breakups in my day. It was sad. I call it the past. Today, many ambassadors of the age of retirement have been released from an institution where they served for 40 years. It is important to think about why. Allow me to open the black coat and bend over to the cause of these enthusiastic departures these days. From the end of 2002, an evolution in Turkey's foreign policy, which could have been described as an axen shift, has been a so-called revolution since 2009. In the essence of this so-called revolution, it is a populist approach to transform religion and religious themes into foreign policy tools. The traditional method and channels of diplomacy in Turkey's communication with other states with international organisations have been given exclamational challenges expressed in front of our public. The rest of the country is almost identical to someone's personal self-esteem. Those who are behind closed doors... are unknown to whom he has been called. This has led to a shift in our foreign policy. As a reflection of domestic policies, Turkey has become open to domestic and external threats. In the Middle East, we made the wrong choices in our relations with religious equations, which are far from rational in our geography, forgotten that everyone is not Sunni. In our foreign relations, it is not a policy that applies to the self-interest of our country and our state and our national security, but a policy that protects the ruling interests and goals of a party. In order to change the domestic policy agenda, foreign policy has been created. After decades of being the compass of the foreign policy of the Republic of Turkey, there were zero problems with neighbours. Those who set out with strategic depth have driven the country into a strategic black hole, not just themselves. To turn this into a success story, it has also been described as a valuable loneliness. In order to create an independent Kurdish state with a way out of the sea, the plan for the deployment of PKK, PYD, YPG elements was put into place by someone in a territorial strip of land reaching the Mediterranean, north of Iraq and Syria. In a speech on January 22, 2018 at the 54th annual awards ceremony of the Ankara Chamber of Industry, he also stated that the issue was not the Kurdish corridor, but the opposition to the corridor of terrorism, not the future political formation beyond our borders. The policy of the eastern part of Fırat was nothing but rhetoric. In his speech on the defence industry on December 12th, Mr. President addressed the Americans and asked them, "Do you realize what you're doing?" Trump is likely to grow iron, and the caravan moves on. With his approach, he continues with his new allies. Once again, someone has deceived us. If they don't mean it, it's time to wake up and stop walking with the U.S.A. on this route from the point where they can't get anywhere in the policies that are being followed about Syria. The so-called patrol in Menbic has no meaning, and the Turkish Armed Forces are being kept away from the city centre where the NYD-YPG is located and can only patrol the land. Idlib is the Gordion node. As a by-product of developments in Syria, it has become a Syrian time bomb that has taken refuge in our homeland. The demographic, social and cultural stalemate that this time bomb is going to create is also a way to solve the Syrian problem, as well as a way to talk to whoever it is, and to create conditions that will make it easier for these people to return to their homes as soon as possible. Otherwise, the problem will have even more severe consequences than any other issue described by some as the Kurdish problem. Today, Turkey is a friend of which country, an enemy of which country, and a distant relationship with which one. It is unclear. Our government is no longer a credible actor in the international plan, but has confused the account, has lost the compass, has been severely wounded by our country's friends and allies with the example of crazy domestic policy projects in our foreign policy. When it is safe not to interfere in other people's internal affairs, it is safe not to interfere in our internal affairs, but not to throw stones through the neighbor's window. For centuries, our northern neighbor Russia has been our southern neighbour, seeking to reach the warm seas, and with the ability to play three-dimensional chess while playing power checkers, our eastern neighbour Iran has settled in our south and has reached the Mediterranean through Lebanon. In the field of energy, the situation that has brought us to Russia is pathetic. Even though the Turkish Stream Project, reflected as a success story, is technically significant, it has increased our dependence on Russia in terms of natural gas. I don't want to go into the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. Looking at the Western Union, the European Union: We see the EU not only as an economic formation, but as a concept of social norms covering democracy, human rights, freedom of the press, and so on. In the full-fledged perspective of membership, in the face of democracy, human rights, free press, which has been thrown into our country for decades on a long, subtle journey, day and night, you've found it for yourself. The main issue on the path to membership in the European Union is clearly political, not economic. In fact, at a meeting with his own ambassadors this summer, the French President stressed the importance of Turkey, but made a statement that sums up the situation very well: of course we would like to improve our relations with Turkey, but Turkey of Erdoğan is no longer Turkey. Mr. President Erdoğan was meeting with Putin in Moscow a few years ago. Take Turkey to the Shanghai Five and save us from this EU case. These statements were described in Western circles as an expression of Turkey's intention to get away from the West. If we hadn't joined international organisations such as the Council of Europe and OECD, which we founded, and we had applied for membership today, they still wouldn't have joined us on the basis of both political and economic criteria. The fact that we have already fallen behind the Copenhagen Criters and have been placed under the supervision of the Council of Europe is a concrete example of this. The economic picture that power reflects on the basis of fake and pirated data reminds us of the Soviet Union. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, Andrei Kozirev, the first Foreign Minister of the Russian Federation, visited Turkey in 1992 and paid a courtesy visit to former Prime Minister Süleyman Demirel. During the conversation, Kozirev raised a question to the Prime Minister: "Mr. Prime Minister, do you know what area the Soviet Union was the most powerful country in? "Our strongest field was statistics -- if the groom had been here and he had listened -- we were so strong in this field that we deceived our people, ourselves, the Politburo, and you, the Western countries." As a result, Kozirev was confessing to the secret of virtual success stories and one of the reasons the USSR collapsed. May God have mercy on us, and hope to learn from the mistakes of others. Today, the Cyprus issue has been removed from being a national case and has begun to be considered a problem. The results of the lack of political resolution on the island cannot be charged to Turkey and the Turkish Cypriots. This is not fit for justice, neutral politics and diplomacy. The lack of resolution in the Cyprus issue is a separate mystery when Turkey is seen as an obstacle to the implementation of the EU process. Of course, we support the island's parties to come up with a compromise solution. But it's important that this compromise doesn't affect our garantism status. The possibility of Wasn'ting the State Department was a separate trauma to our foreign policy. As of 2009, more than 600 career officers were suspended from the Ministry after the coup attempt on July 15th, when they replaced the exam system and took 30 regular officers each year with a test test test lift. The number corresponds to 23 per cent of the Ministry's career staff. There is no such concentration in any state institution. Almost all of those suspended from the ministry were appointed to the Ministry after 2009. Thus, even if our proposals to investigate the political and economic foot of Å are being rejected, we provide you with sufficient clues as to where to find the foot of Å. Let me give you another example: let's get three maps. Let's mark on one of these new embassies the Republic of Turkey has opened in the last ten years. On top of the other map, let's run new international flights that Turkish Airlines has launched in the last ten years. On top of a third map, let's mark cities where the schools are located. Then put these three maps on top of each other. You'll be surprised how many dots fit.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0026par0275	Come on, Mr. Erozan, finish your words, I'll give you one more minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0025par0276	Did you say "politic foot"? In short, let's not look for the enemy outside, please. As the increasing number of neomonics is not enough, they are now trying to distribute the adjective as a favor until it becomes otherwise fixed. The matter of the Neomons is also important for another reason. The ambassadors in this category will prevent the issues in bilateral relations with the country they are in, from projecting themselves to the appointing authority because of the culture of the bilateral culture, so our relations with the countries in which the neomonists are in office will begin to be conducted through the ambassadors of these countries in Ankara. Devoid of diplomatic culture and practices, neomonics will become more and more dysfunctional. Not only do we want to criticize, but if you'll allow us to tell us what we're going to do, how and when we're going to do it when we're in power. If you'll excuse the developments in the Turkish world, the problems of our citizens abroad, I will make a promise on December 19th about another pencil in the budget. Keep watching us. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0027par0281	Thank you, Mr. Erozan. So the speech of the Good PARTY group is complete. Now, I'll meet your demands according to 60. First of all, I'm going to start by meeting the commitment demands if the group's vice presidents have any. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0028par0287	Mr. President, thank you. Following your warning about the procedure, we waited until the end of the PARTI Group. In fact, a lot of hacks may have given our group the right to answer some of their accusations in their speech, but in their own way, we didn't hear them, so to speak, due to the specifics of the budget. But I'd like to say that the so-called proverb used by the last speaker to evaluate Trump and Erdogan is not compatible with any of the age, experience, diplomacy culture, any of them. I've passed the House in one place, the communications between the MPs, but I don't think it's cool that a statesman with so much experience is using that kind of expression, and if I were to return the same statement, I don't think I should take any promises for this statement. I've just been promised to say that I disagree with this statement, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0029par0291	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0030par0294	Mr. President, I think the system problem is still going on.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0029par0295	No, let me make a statement there, Mr. Bilgen: There are no entry points after 30 people have entered the system. All you have to do is point me in the direction of the group's vice president, and I'll promise you this, and I'll turn on the microphone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0030par0296	No, I only did it for irony because we discussed it as a system problem with Mr. sentop, who ran the session yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0029par0297	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0030par0298	Mr. President, today is December 17th. December 17-25 was a turning point in which almost all parties, except for the first group here, handled and evaluated the week of the fight against corruption. Of course, both the collection of evidence and the release of it to the media have many unacceptable dimensions of intent, purpose, procedure and law, but we have a serious approach to corruption on the basis of the work, a serious perspective problem. Turkey has been reversing the relationship between coups and corruption since 17-25 December. It's described as covering up corruption, not conducting an investigation and trial of corrupt people, protecting the regime. However, paradigm is the opposite of paradigm in all the world's democracies. Fighting corruption is taking care of democracy. Transparency is democracy, but failing to fight corruption is the basis for the establishment of the mechanisms of custody over politics. You can repel the coup once, and even if these allegations of corruption were made to be the basis for the coup, eventually you will be exposed to developments that will create a new impact situation. So we have to read the December 17-25 correctly, evaluate it correctly, and move on to a double standard.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0029par0301	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0030par0302	It is, of course, unacceptable that the same structures, the same methods, the same irregular wiretaps, are being held as evidence in the trial process today. Again, on that day, a decision was made on this roof that the ministers should not be tried, but immediately after that, the process of judging the Constitution -- Article 20 of the Article 20 of the Constitution -- was launched. And finally, Mr. President, December 17th-25th and corruption is actually directly related to the deaths of workers because for a long time, brokering and bribery has become the state's way of doing business.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0031par0306	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0030par0307	When the profits fall, it's a way of making amends to the workers, to work harder, to make up for their profits, to take the share of the commission from the worker's rights, from the sweat of the forehead, which brings with it longer shifts, carelessness, deaths. Therefore, December 17-25 is crucial to both the rights of workers and the respect of lawmakers and this Parliament for democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0031par0309	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0032par0312	Mr. President, Justice and Development Party Chairman Recep Tayyip Erdogan told me yesterday at an opening ceremony in Esen....what he understood about democracy, how he interpreted the right to protest. In his highly provocative, divisive, divisive, and targeted speech, he said this was not a France, a Netherlands. In this regard, of course, if he says that no protest march in France, despite the State of Emergency, has been outlawed, that there are no restraining orders against meeting and demonstration rights, or that France has $45,000 in national income, it's true, it's not France or the Netherlands, but it's the country's presidential office that should embrace 81 million...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0031par0314	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0032par0315	...and the leader of a party, not with his mouth and his glasses, but with the fact that we can't accept the irresponsible explanations of someone who's sworn to be President of 81 million on this stand. First of all, let's say that if he's talking about travel events, what he's talking about is injustice, what he's talking about is injustice, what he's talking about is justice, what he's talking about, what he's talking about is search and democratic protest, we're there, we're there, we're proud, we're there, we're gonna be there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You can't escape. You can't save your life.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0033par0320	Here, complete it, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0032par0321	...against terrorism, against the acts that terrorize the streets, if the police of this country, when they have law enforcement forces, prosecutors of this country, are legally able to protect the rights of state and citizens when they are outside the Constitution, and when they are using these powers to overuse them, we are telling you that when a Fetullahist, a religious, a religious, low-plow coup attempt against society, is trying to report to those who are willing to take democratic rights, workers, workers, workers or environmentally sensitive to those who will come out of the street, if necessary, we say that you're afraid that when they're going to press against democracy, you're going to stand up against it, or you're going to stand up against it. Remember, all dictators are most afraid of squares.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0034par0323	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0033par0324	Put him through, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0035par0326	All dictators fear the most squares.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0036par0327	Go, go, go!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0035par0328	To use our democratic rights when necessary, to fill those squares, to intervene in the way of life, to intervene in nature, to intervene in the way of life in Istanbul.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0037par0329	Don't shout, don't scream!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0036par0330	Easy, easy, easy!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0035par0331	When it comes to resisting all kinds of democratic rights in Turkey, it's the square, the street, the street, the march, we're here, we don't leave shoes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0038par0333	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0036par0334	We thought it was a chest. If it was a chest, it was a chest.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0039par0335	Box, 22 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0038par0336	I don't think there's any more demands from the groups. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0040par0339	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, I don't understand why Mr. Free yelled so early in the morning. I mean, it's not about yelling, it's about talking. A lot of yelling doesn't justify it. He who has a say in the matter speaks calmly, and puts his mind to it. It's very clear what our President is saying: in democracies, being on the street in the context of terrorist activities is a step by the people to be answered by the national will. If Mr. Free, we're here, we're telling you, we have no fear. But, dear friends, the existence of political parties is to point to what it thinks is the necessity of democracy, to point to the House. We say everything in the House, we talk about everything, that's why we're here. Without parliament, perhaps - in the nail - the street would have meaning. But if you're still saying that there's a party in the main opposition of Parliament after power, 1) This shows your weakness. 2) It means you're not democratic.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0041par0345	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0040par0346	We say that in democracies, competition is in the chest. So, we'll come back here on the evening of March 31st, the crown of whatever the public says. (AK PARTY) But we do know what are the virtues in the saying of self-reliant parties who can't communicate between themselves and their people. We're not afraid of the street. I repeat the same thing: on July 15th, the same way we claim the streets of this nation, we're not afraid of anyone, but I leave the word of a political leader to the democratic culture of our nation over and over again. Mr. President, in other words, the precious group vice president has just made some accusations today on December 17th. Mr. President, look, you're a lawyer, and Mr. Ayhan is a lawyer. The order comes before the original. I don't think it's right that the evidence obtained by means of an immoral procedure should be brought up again in this House years later.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0042par0350	Here, complete it, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0040par0351	Mr. President, I say the procedure comes before the original. Although it has been known that a process of trial, based on immoral methods, so-called evidence, was a coup attempt by everyone in this country, although it was known that the prosecutor had issued a statement outside, that false evidence had been put on the agenda in parliament, that the same delegations, teams had led many cases, especially Ergenekon, in the next steps, I do not find it true today, Mr. President, to be on the agenda for alleged corruption. The December 17th issue, just as in Brazil, was the president's attempt to be sent from his country in different ways. Those who failed in December 17 stood up on July 15th, and they failed in that too.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0042par0354	Put him through, please, Mr. Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0040par0356	Those who failed to achieve Turkey without Erdogan on December 17th, those who failed to achieve Turkey without Erdoğan with false evidence, failed to achieve Turkey without Erdogan in the July 15th attempt after December 17th. So I don't think it's appropriate for a group of vice presidents to take refuge there. The order comes before the original. With that evidence, the documents, we've all seen that nothing can be defended. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0042par0358	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0043par0361	Mr. President, I won't be too long either, but I've already drawn attention to the inconsistencies and inconsistencies of wiretaps. Now, of course -- the privacy of people's private lives and in this regard -- it's unacceptable that almost everyone's phone has been bugged by cunning, sneaky plans. I'm one of those who spent five years on charges of being a member of the Tevhid Salam organization at the time, along with a lot of bureaucrats, with politicians. But now that they were listening during that period, the ongoing trial was put into the file as additional evidence. This happened a year ago, fellas, not to mention December 17th or 25th. Still, until a year ago, these irregular wiretaps can be put into my files, our other friends' files, whether they're still on the initiative or you're taking a stand when you're coming to your senses, but you're hoping to take advantage of it when it's someone else.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0042par0364	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0043par0365	The street situation is very kind. If there is a perception in one country that there is no way to express itself on the street without harming the environment, without disturbing other parts of society, then that country will come out of the category of democratic countries, and those who defend Turkey outside will have to pay the price very hard. Look, I'm going to give you a very small example: Zeliha Bilgin lost two brothers and nephews in a Chorus train accident. Dear friends, he just wants to make a memorial, he says: "We are not enemies of the state." Now, it's a bad thing when a person who's lost a relative -- not even a memorial of a train crash, not even to protest -- wants to express himself as an enemy of the state unless he hurts the environment. It's a bad thing, dear friends. The state must prove the guilty. If the citizen feels compelled to prove his innocence...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0044par0369	Tie him up, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0043par0370	...the situation has come to a very grave point if people have to make such a statement about using their most basic rights. Finally, Mr. President, look, for a few days, the host of a television station clearly says: "The heads of those attending the ship must be taken off." Now, dear friends, I ask you, you have no reaction to this. This one says every morning, "Ver mehteri!" and so on and so forth, you know, every period, February 28th, he made similar publications, and he pointed at others. Now, we all know that some of the ministers had children in the early days, including those who participated in a television channel's entire Travel Action. But if you keep quiet about these statements, how in God's name is Turkey going to run the extradition agreement? How are you going to return those directly involved in the coup from Europe? Don't people say that if you can defend the beheading of those who attended the trip...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0045par0374	Put him through for the last time, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0043par0375	If those who attended the trip were not involved in violence, there was no trial, they sat there passively, then their tents were burned, a claim was made that those who burned them were guilty, other connections were found, and if they were able to defend the heads of all those who joined the trip, you would not be able to convince and extradite any country as part of the extradition of criminals, because Turkey would only remain in a country category that was perceived that way. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0045par0377	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0046par0378	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0045par0379	Mr. Special, let me make one last promise, and let's end this discussion here, please. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0046par0382	Thank you, Mr. President. In 2018, I was ashamed to have to give such an answer to the party that had the most seats in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Friends, the squares are the pride of power; the White House does not weaken the White House, but strengthens the White House. In Germany, France, England, anywhere in the world, if a challenge is being met, if people are using their rights to protest in that square, if they are protesting, if they are expressing their rebellion, it shows that democracy exists in that country. The Ark exists in many fascist dictatorial regimes, but the free square, free street only exists in democracies. That's what you don't understand, that's the conflict you're hearing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0045par0385	Put him through, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0046par0387	Of course, when it comes to burning, of course, violence, property, life-threatening, the legitimate power of state and state comes into play, taking necessary precautions. In France, no one forbids the gathering of yellow vests, and if you do, we will attack you with other people.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0047par0388	What are the cops doing?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0046par0389	If the yellow vests were violent, the police would be against them...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0047par0390	What violence!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0048par0391	Please don't interfere, friends. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0393	Friend, is he throwing rocks? If the yellow vests get violent, the police come in after that. We're reacting to the excessive use of force by the police, but, like you, banning streets, squares, and pointing to crates, pointing directly at a dictatorial regime.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0050par0394	When did we forbid it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0395	On December 17th and 25th, you were never interested in corruption, you said, "Let's settle it in the box." If you owe money to the grocery store, don't pay it and come to the chest.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0051par0397	Put him through, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0052par0398	Why are you running from the crate?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0399	By the way, as the People's Party of the Republic, many parties here have already explained their situation in 17-25, and even the leader of one of the opposition parties at the moment said that the time in my room is 25pm and will always be there. In 17-25, the week of the fight against corruption, they shared from their official accounts. In this House, we have always said the irregularity of gathering evidence during the 17-25 process, but let's stress the fact that a misdemeanor collection of evidence does not disqualify that evidence, only that evidence prevents judgment and judgment from being carried out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0053par0401	It's not an unsolicited gathering, it's a fake!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0054par0402	Listen, listen, learn!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0403	We're very clear that when the cash register came out, the people put it in there. They said, "Well, then they asked for the money back with interest, and they took the money back."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0055par0405	Put him through, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0406	Doesn't mean he didn't commit corruption, doesn't mean he didn't take bribes; those bribes were taken, those corruptions were committed. Back then, your road partner gathered evidence in case there was any need for blackmail. We've always warned you that if you mess up, the day will come when he'll weigh you too. Those illegal evidence, those illegal wiretaps, he exposed your filth in 17-25. The impromptu collection of evidence...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0056par0407	Fake, fake!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0408	...the filth of that evidence...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0056par0409	The contents of the evidence are false!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0049par0410	I'd cut off the arm of your Prime Minister Davutoglu, who was a thief at the time. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0057par0413	Thank you. Mr. Turan, I promise, but let's end this discussion on this tour, and move on to other agendas.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0058par0415	Mr. President, we'll take your word for it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0057par0416	Of course, Mr. Nightingale, I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0059par0418	Those recordings are all fake, there are reports.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0060par0420	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0059par0421	There are reports, they're fake.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0061par0422	It's real!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0062par0423	Dear friends, dear lawmakers, please don't discuss our position.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0063par0424	I'm using the same expression again: we hear each other, and there's a microphone. What's the point of yelling like Mr. Bolu? Why are you shouting, Mr. Free?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0064par0425	Ask the president, isn't there a microphone in the works, and he yelled at us that much?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0063par0427	Calm down, let's make a deal. Don't shout, I hear, don't shout, I hear, calm down.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0064par0428	Ask the president-in-chief if there were no microphones in the Works yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0063par0429	Mr. President, why do you have that microphone?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0065par0430	Yeah, let's not talk mutually. You go ahead, Mr. Turan, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0063par0431	It's for hearing, it's for understanding. When a person yells, he's not right, and I'll say it again.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0066par0432	Then tell Recep Tayyip Erdogan if he's not right when he shouts.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0067par0433	Listen, listen, listen! Listen, brother, we listened to you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0068par0435	Didn't you just yell at us? You will speak there and you will intervene.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0069par0436	You go ahead, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0070par0437	Look, Mr. President, whatever the purpose of the trip was, it became clear later.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0069par0439	Mr. Turan, wait a moment. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please, let's not quarrel, let's not shout at each other.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0071par0441	Respect is mutual.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0069par0442	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please... please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0072par0443	Behave yourself!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0073par0444	He's yelling when I'm talking, not when he's talking!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0072par0445	How dare you! Are we on the street?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0074par0446	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0448	I'll get the mike turned on. Please calm down, let's listen to Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0450	Mr. President, I wish the cameras could take these conversations, the images, the statements, the facial expressions.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0077par0451	You forbid it, so let it be.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0452	Mr. Gürer, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0453	Mr. President, this is not an argument. I told you the other day, I'll say it again. The way it is, you're going to say everything, you're going to argue, you're going to approach, you're going to bring up a lot of things, you're going to scream when the other side opens its mouth. What this means is that we set up the Stimal Courts, you don't speak, we judge, we hang, then you defend. It's not right. Guys, I'm gonna talk for two minutes. One has patience, one has calmness.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0454	Go ahead, Mr. Turan, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0455	That's what we're referring to as the mindset. He'll talk, he'll scream, he won't get any answers. Friends, from the top of December 17th, the lawyers, prosecutors, all understood that there was a false, false evidence made by their judges. Look, that's what I'm trying to say.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0457	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0458	The order comes before the original. It is not a political approach to repeat what Zachariah said in Istanbul, but you will be his attorney. That's not true. I say look in the mirror again. Mr. President, the other thing is... it's not right to judge the matter of getting out on the street in such terms as sabotaging it. Each party has already held meetings, demonstrations in the squares, and even some of them have left Ankara, and are walking to İstanbul. There's no problem with that. But what we're saying is that no action that acts in terror, sabotaging the street, provoking the nation with different arguments, or referring to Turkey's democracy, national sovereignty won't allow it, this nation won't allow it. Or what party is involved in rallying and hiking in legal squares in this country? Look, but if you take those signs, hang them on the AKM, put terror activities at the center of the business...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0461	Tie him up, Mr. Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0075par0463	...of course, this country's judiciary, its police, its similar institutions will say stop, but first of all, this nation itself will not allow the approach of this kind of terrorist activity in its own wisdom, in its own way, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0076par0464	Thank you. Understood arguments. I think it's better if we end it here now, because the arguments are being repeated.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0078par0466	Mr. President, in that case, Mr. President, I'm not going to ask you again to hold back my position, so let's go to the report, let's not make a twist. On December 17th and 25th, all the wiretaps are in order.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0079par0468	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda. Mr. Özalan, all right, you wait.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0078par0470	Why? Because it's the trustees who do it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0080par0471	No, it's all fake. They've got voice hacking, it's all fake.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0078par0472	Even if the evidence was collected illegally, the facts of the evidence were at that time...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0080par0473	It's not sloppy, it's fake, it's fake!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0078par0474	Why do you want the counterfeit money back with interest?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0081par0475	Dear Private, not mutually, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0080par0476	Fake, fake, fake sounds. Mr. Mahmut knows the voices are fake.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0078par0477	Why do you want the fake money back? If the money was fake, would you give it back? You should've signed up for the treasure. Why are you giving me the fake money?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0081par0478	Congressman...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0082par0479	Would six safes be fake?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0083par0480	He got the money back, the money. Money, money, money...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0084par0481	Yeah, why are you giving me the money back?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0085par0482	Mr. Mahmut knows the voices were fake.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0086par0483	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, please, just a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0087par0485	Is the money fake, the money?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0088par0486	Where's the money, where'd it go with the interest?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0086par0487	Congressman, let's take it easy. Let's just calm down, not with the yelling.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0089par0488	Mr. President, I've said the same thing five times, it's not appropriate to speak with the mouth of Zechariah Oz.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0086par0489	Understood, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0090par0490	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0091par0491	At least shut up and don't make a sound!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0092par0492	They already explained what money is. They explained where the money came from, it's obvious whose money it belongs to.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0093par0493	Mr. President, let's move on to the agenda.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0091par0494	He got the money back with interest, the money.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0092par0495	Okay, that's who the money belongs to.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0091par0496	Shut up, keep your voices down, and don't let your shame get out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0092par0497	No shame, no shame, no silence! You'll make a sign from there... it's a shame what you did!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0094par0498	Ladies and gentlemen, if you do this, I'm going to have to take a break because there's no way we can run a meeting like this.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0091par0499	Shut up and don't let your shame get out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0094par0500	Mr. Nightingale has a request for a statement. The entire group has spoken over and over again, Mr. Nightingale is waiting.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0095par0501	Sure, sure, but, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0094par0502	Mr. Special, please take your seat, and then, after Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0096par0503	Mr. Special, you've made a lot of promises, so let's make a promise, brother!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0095par0504	Mr. President, I'm not going to go into this again, I'm just saying...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0096par0505	Mr. Special, you've made a lot of promises!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0097par0506	Sir, he's still talking. Mr. President, you didn't promise!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0095par0507	If the money they said was fake, why did the government pay interest and return it to fake money? You paid the men back with interest!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0098par0509	Okay, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0099par0510	The voices are fake, the voices!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0095par0511	Where's the money, the money? You gave them the money back. They took the bribe, admit it! What happened to those four ministers?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0100par0512	Don't defend the thief, thief!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0101par0513	Mr. Special, Mr. Turan, please sit down, because this will not continue, the negotiations will continue late again. Please be quiet, please be quiet... Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0516	Mr. President, thank you. Now, they've given us an opinion that we think you mean the Special National Movement Party. The Nationalist Movement Party is now on its way from the day it exists with a primitive and leveled sense of politics in Turkish politics.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0103par0519	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0520	Yes, yes, friends, our history is evidence. We, in the December 17th-25th period, express today the need to address all the names, whatever there is, whatever there is doubt about them. In the case of Reza Zarrab, Mr. President also stated that during his trial in the United States, he was brought to Turkey before the Turkish justice of his trial to the end...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0104par0522	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0105par0523	Who released Reza Zarrab?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0524	I'm not the one who let him go. He had just expressed his view at the point of being brought to Turkey, being tried, being punished, and then being expelled from Turkish citizenship, while the People's Bank was being tried in the United States. His trial means that those processes are fully enlightened, and you all know it. The National Movement Party has always been primitive about corruption. In this regard, it is a political move in Turkish politics, especially in the Supreme Court processes, when those in the position of our minister in the administration are in a position to resign and then be tried in the Supreme Court and even lend him a debt to answer in front of the law.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0106par0527	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0528	When a figure about its own mayors appears, I would like to stress that a leader who says, "Let go of your duty immediately, answer in front of the law, and come to your senses." [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Also, as I was sending a watch on December 17th to 25th, 2015, after June 7th, during future negotiations, while together, eating rice pudding for thirty-five days, I remember Mr. Private's statements very fresh, very well. The Justice and Development Party is a large party that has been voted by a large population throughout Turkey. We have no preconditions. Without any preconditions, we want to be in a coalition. We also remember the declarations of the CHP and the statements of other CHP members.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0106par0532	Put him through now, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0533	I'll put you through. That's all we need to talk about.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0106par0534	Come in, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0535	The National Movement Party has established its principles that day. There must be a fight against terror. He said that the process of solution must be completed. The same way, he said, "You must go over corruption. " These issues were a prerequisite for the National Party of Action, if a coalition was to take place after June 7th. While the coalition still maintains its primitive stance, one of those who blame the National Movement Party for its principles as those who block Turkey is the Republican People's Party, which is now sitting in front of us. At this point, the National Movement Party, as it was yesterday, insists on its primitive stance; it is a party that argues that whoever stole it in Turkey will be held accountable in front of our own party, even though whoever broke it out of our own party.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0106par0537	Now, put him through, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0102par0538	I'll put you through. The nationalist Movement Party has no claim to set a bad example. Every party, every structure, can have bad examples, but the National Movement Party does not. He'd like us to re-record this attitude, sir, to your discretion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit01spe0107par0542	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0107par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0108par0002	Mr. President, I'd like to file an objection.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0107par0003	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0108par0004	You've committed a new procedure, you've made the groups talk, you've made them use their rights at the end, other than teasing. There were things that we should have answered as a party in the speech of Mr. Group Vice President just now, but with respect to your approach to procedure, I wanted to put it on the record that I'm putting it off for the next term, and that we're not going to leave it unanswered. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0109par0007	Thank you very much, Mr. Special. I expect you to understand this because I've already asked you to help me promise to the groups, to the members of the group, to the members of the group, after each group's speech has been completed, and I've announced to you that this is my attitude. As you can see, when we make a promise to the group's vice presidents, there's a constant demand for an answer. Sometimes it's right, sometimes it's used to fall over again. Budget talks have properties, and we all know that. We need to establish a pattern in order for groups to be able to make their talks whole and complete the negotiations at a reasonable time today, and I believe we'll all do it together. I'm trying my best not to cause any injustice, injustice, or cause any harm. And if I have any flaws or flaws in this matter, let me make it clear again that I am open to any cooperation in handling them with your help. Thank you. We continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account The commission is in place. Now for the talks on behalf of the AK PARTY Group. The first word is in Gaziantep MP Abdullah Nejat Koker. Here you go, Mr. Coacher. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0110par0066	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Despite financial attacks and speculative attacks, Turkey continues to produce, create jobs, export and grow. Turkey, which develops political, economic and commercial relations in its region and in the world, is becoming an important centre in the global sector. In November, with $168 billion in exports, the republic has reached the highest export figure in our history, and export imports have increased to 96.3%. The balance of currency and interest was soon achieved. With strong foreign trade figures, economic confidence has begun to rise. With the firm and rational policies implemented, Turkey has managed to move up to the 43rd rank between the 199 countries in the Doing Business Index. This is a very important development in our country's economic rise in international competitiveness. Members of parliament, Turkey has new and larger goals set in every area from health to education, tourism to industry to a far more different point than yesterday and today. Our Ministry of Industry and Technology also makes policy and moves that are investor-friendly with a vision that meets those goals. Technology is accelerating production based on design, branding and innovation, and Turkey is now becoming a country that designes and produces technology and is no longer the country that follows technology. The increase in production of high-tech products is 8.7 per cent, showing that we will be able to develop the technology that we have recently produced to become the export country. We are pleased to see that support for the private sector, entrepreneurs and SMEs has been transformed into production. IN recent years, the use of 16,000 Turkish-dollar resources to the 16 thousand projects has accelerated the structural and digital transformation that Turkey especially needs in the industrial area. Our Ministry of Industry contributes to the emergence of future scientists and tech entrepreneurs with TBITAK support. In the process, our firms, who understand the importance of RD, innovation and patents, are making significant successes in branding. The patent application, which rose 5.8 per cent last year worldwide, increased our country 24.9 per cent, and again its application for brand registration reached 247,000 per cent in Turkey with an increase of 8.4 per cent. Turkey has reached number 1 in its European brand application, number 2 in the design. With 54,000 employees in our country, 1,038 RD centers, 5,000 employees and 283 design centers continue to operate for innovative projects. Our defence industry has developed and produced high-increased value products with 65 per cent nationality and domesticity, while our country has become a country that has a say in the defence industry. With $6.7 billion in turnovers and $2 billion in exports, defence and aviation have become a global force in the field of space technology. I appreciate this project because the International Leader Investigators Program, designed to power our qualified manpower, to reverse brain migration, especially our scientists, is very concerned about our country. I see it as an opportunity for valuable and high-tech production to include the new project that our Ministry of Industry has started in the industry to start digital change and transform. I appreciate the beginning of model factories in our five pilot counties, including Turkey's largest organised industrial district, the 6th largest export city, Gaziantep. Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Industry and Technology is conducting important activities to improve our country's industry with support for those producing its technology. I want to thank all of our Ministry employees, especially Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Mr. Mustafa Varank, for these activities. I wish our Ministry of Industry 2019 budget to be a blessing for our country, our nation and our industry, and I salute your high council and our holy nation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0111par0078	Thank you, Mr. Coacher. Now it's the turn of Denizli MP Şahin Tin. Here you go, Mr. Tin.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0112par0082	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which is part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal in our Veteran Assembly. I salute your high council and our nation. Dear lawmakers, despite any attacks in the industry, especially on foreign currency, there is a production that exceeds the market's expectations. In particular, recently our country has made a major attack in the field of new technology production. This is a very happy development. We've traveled considerable distances in localizing entries in the industrial sector, which are one of our primary targets, and reducing the imports of inter-industrial goods in the industry. Software and technology are one of the most obvious examples of the mandatory 15 per cent price advantage for domestic goods, especially in public goods tenders. Technology development zones have been established in our country. Many opportunities and benefits have been offered here, including tax exemptions and bonus exceptions to grants to businesses operating. Again, RD, I want to say that our government is mobilising all possibilities for companies who want to operate innovation and design. Turkey's century-old dream domestic car development and production of a powerful automotive side industry manufacturer is one of our most remarkable moves. Hopefully, by the end of 2019, the first prototype of the domestic car will be produced. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as a brother who has been in industry for many years, I would like to point out that, of course, it's not easy to get over all the problems immediately. It takes time and process. It's not industrialization and production by just criticizing and sitting aside; it's not industrialization by walking, going up, pouring, burning, screaming.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0113par0086	You can't just put a picture of a car and an airplane in a poster.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0112par0087	We need to search the polls for democratic rights. It's also the way of power. Without stability and order, neither foreign capital will come to the country, nor industrialism will grow and grow. Turkey's salvation is production, production and production. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We're very sensitive to the simple production and digital transformation of our industrialists, like Industries 4.0, and we're signing important work in this area. We also know that we also need to work on the quality of employees and intermediaries that are needed in the industry. Hopefully, in this area, we'll be able to provide more professional and technical schools, more attractive to our young people, to provide the qualified staff that our manufacturer requires. We continue to take important steps not only to support our major industrialists, but also to support our small and medium-sized businesses. During our 16 years of rule, we provided strong support for businesses through many institutions such as COSGEB, TKDK, TBITAK. We've provided $5.9 billion in support for 220 thousand businesses in 16 years through COSGEB. With the COBI financial support credit programme, we've invested $3.9 billion in loans to 520,000 businesses, creating a $20 billion loan volume. Dear lawmakers, we have worked hard to expand domestic and national industry, and we will continue to work with the same determination. In this context, I'd like to stress that our manufacturers provide additional support if they buy or use domestic goods in machine and equipment. We are determined to take our country to the best place it deserves. We will eliminate all obstacles to domestic production and national growth with scientific issues such as space technologies, strategic industrial products. On this occasion, I would like to express my gratitude to the Minister and the Ministry bureaucrats, especially to our organised industrial areas, our tech-intensive companies, our industry and our SMEs, for their support. I wish the 2019 budget would be a blessing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0114par0093	Thank you, Mr. Tin. Next up is Şanlıurfa MP Mehmet Ali Cevheri. Here you go, Mr. Cevheri. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0115par0098	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I wish our budget of 2019 to be good for our country, our nation, and I salute your grand delegation. In short, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Southeast Anatolia Project, known as the GAP. The GAP was founded on April 3, 1977, and was known in the region as the seven earringed bride, and on that day the seven foundations were laid for the seven earrings of the bride in Şanlıurfa. The basis of the GAP was the cement factory, the agricultural equipment factory, the agricultural faculty, the social insurance hospital, the Şanliurfa airport, and social housing for small-income families. It was a dream for us that our plains, the GAP, where Northern Mesopotamia's watery land was cracked with thirst, would be watered, and there would be blessings from the plains, not just the good fortune of the land, but the good fortune of the region.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0116par0101	The water channels have not been built, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0115par0102	Mr. President, the GAP is now a national development project that aims to improve our people's income by considering the resources of the Southeast Anatolian region, to improve our living standards, to equate the differences between social layers and regions, to brand our country internationally, not regionally, but as a national development project, one of the number of projects in the world. Adıyaman, Batman, Diyarbakır, Gaziantep, Kilis, Mardin, Siirt, Şanlıurfa and Şırnak counties cover about 10 per cent of our country as a geographical area and population. The region's water basins represent 28 per cent of Turkey's water potential. Firat has 17 per cent and Dicle has 11 per cent water potential. So far, the construction of 22 dams, 19 hydropower plants, and 221m long main canals and irrigation networks has been largely completed. The completion of the GAP is envisioned for watering 1,822 million hectares of land and producing 27 billion kilowatts of hydroelectric energy per year. The area's socioeconomic indicators have been improved by investments made with the GAP. One of the most basic indicators, exports have made significant progress, reaching $8.6 billion in 2017, up by 260 per cent in exports, which amounted to 3.3 billion in 2007. The area's share of exports has increased from 3.1 per cent to 5.5. Mr. President, the number of people employed in the region has increased by 67 per cent in exchange for a 31 per cent increase in the number of people employed across the country as of 2018 and 2016, with the GAP project. In 2002, 155 incentives were issued for investments, 872m euros were aimed at fixed investment and employment of 8,753 people, while in 2017, 8,350m euros of fixed investment and 41,417 jobs were envisioned. There have been significant increases in schooling with studies conducted in the field. In primary school, the number of students dropped to the top of the class in the 2007-2008 school year was 44, while in 2017-2018 it was up to 30. In 2002, the number of classrooms in Şanlıurfa, my science, was 5,037, and today, as of early 2018, 17892 classes, with nearly 300 schools based in 2018, the number of classrooms will rise to 22,000. Six new public universities have been established in the region and the number of universities has increased to nine. In 2007, 48 faculty, 19 universities of applied sciences and 19 universities of applied sciences were opened. Important investments have also been made in the field of health. In 2002 there were 63 hospitals and 8,223 beds, while in 2016 the number of hospitals was 124 and the number of beds was 19.548. The number of sick beds for 10,000 has risen from 13 to 23. The total number of physicians increased from 4,430 in 2002 to 10,392 in 2016. The drinking water problem of all provinces has been solved in the region. By the end of 2017, 443.8 billion kilowatts of electricity was produced and produced, and the monetary value of this energy was 26.63 billion dollars.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0117par0108	Here you go, Mr. Cevheri.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0115par0109	Thank you. Physics at 24 per cent of GAP energy investments will be 90 per cent when the Ilisu Dam comes online. In 2002, 1,98,854 hectares were watered, while 552,779 hectares of land were watered in 2017. In the province of Şanlıurfa, 403,830 hectares of land were watered. With 8 airports, the region has access to all cities. With the project, industrial infrastructure has been developed, the number of OSBs in the region has risen to 17, and the small industrial site has risen to 18. As I put an end to my words, I wish both our GAP budget and our central management budget well, and I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0118par0113	Thank you, Mr. Cevheri. Now it's time for Mus MP Mehmet Emin Simsek. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0119par0118	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration in 2019. I salute your high council. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration was established on June 8, 2011, with the Constitutional Court of Law No. 642. The head of the DAP Regional Development Administration was intended to speed up the development of the Eastern Anatolian region, social, economic, regional development, co-ordinate, research, plan, program, project, monitor, and evaluate the region's level of development in place. Due to the fact that our region is an agricultural and livestock area, it has been opened to water a total of 180,000 hectares in the region, with a total of 3,767km of watering grids, as part of a small-scale agricultural irrigation programme of 756m euros for the project between 2013 and 2018, in an effort to increase plant production and irrigated land. In 2014-2018, in the region's cities, with $41m in funding, 193 animal drinking water ponds and facilities were built to develop Mera livestock and increase the income level of local farmers. In order to control animal movements in the region, prevent the spread of animal disease and increase production value, in the last three years, 30 licensed animal markets and 26 licensed slaughterhouse projects have been supported, and in order to ensure that animal disease is not spread in small livestock, the DAP Administration and the Ataturk University Department of Agriculture Machines and the agricultural and veterinary schools are again funded by agriculture and veterinary education facilities in order to improve their physical infrastructure and housing for farmers. Since 2014, 82 projects have been funded by allocation of 34.4m euros, in order to increase the efficiency and diversity of production in plant products in the region, direct cities to technology-based production, address infrastructure problems and increase agriculture's prosperity in plant production. In this area, 775 decedents and applied greenhouses were established, providing new types of bait plants in the area of 21.373 with 88 machine equipment distributions. In an effort to increase the amount of green space per person, 34.8m euros in green spaces have been created for 11 projects in the DAP region. In the region, 137 neighborhood libraries were established with $21 million to increase book reading rates and improve reading culture. A total of 34 projects, including youth and culture centers, sports complexes, mobile, village schools and similar projects, were supported by the Border District Economics and Social Development Programme for socioeconomic development in the DAP region in 2015 and 2016. A total of $9.2m projects, including film hall institutions, art workshops, science workshops, writer meetings and similar projects, were sponsored between 2016 and 2018, to ensure the development of under 18-year-olds in science, culture, arts and sports areas. On the one hand, we're signing mega projects like highways, tunnels, airports, city hospitals, dams, irrigation sites across the country, but on the other hand, we don't neglect to reach every point with organizations like the DAP in our region, and hopefully we won't. I wish you the best and the best of the budget of 2019, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0120par0127	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. In order to speak, Iconian MP Ahmet Insubordinate. Here you go, Mr. Interrogation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the KOP District Chairman in 2019. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. I'd like to point out something before we go to KOP. Last Thursday morning, the high-speed train making the Ankara-Conya flight crashed -- you all know -- and nine lives lost in this accident, many of our citizens were injured. For those who have passed away, I pray for mercy from the Lord of the Rights, and for our wounded, and for all our wounded, we have visited the hospitals. But for the past three days, I've seen some injustices being done at the Capitol over the high-speed train, and I've felt the need to make a statement about it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0122par0134	It wasn't fair to the dead, it wasn't fair to the dead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0135	13.5 million passengers moved from 2011 to here. Of course, we can't argue that accidents are never justified.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0136	You're defending it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0137	Whoever's responsible, whatever the reason, has to be investigated...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0138	We can't see anyone resigning.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0139	He will be questioned and questioned. We have no doubt about it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0140	What are you investigating, it's all there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0141	But I would like to point out that 13.5 million passengers...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0142	You're hiding in the numbers again.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0143	When we think of it as being carried by an automobile, we think that there are three people in a car, 13.5 million passengers are about 4.5 million cars. Or when we think there are 40 people on a bus, it has to be carried by land by about 337,500 buses.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0144	You kill in automobiles, traffic kills, roads kill.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0145	I also ask that the consequences be considered. Accidents can never be given a defense, an alibi.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0123par0146	You show it, you don't resign, you don't resign, you don't answer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0147	By underlineing that... and the lives that are gone cannot be compensated for anything; I'm stressing that. No life can be measured by money, I'll stress that. As for the KOP, highly valued lawmakers: KOP administration was established in 2011, as well as GAP, DAP, DAP, and was founded in the first place to cover 4 provinces; Konya, Karaman, Aksaray, Niğde, and 4 other counties were added in 2016, but it was added to this: Kırkale, Kırşehir, Yozgat, Nevşehir. And the field is up to 100 square kilometers. We thank you very much for all the good that has been done so far. He who does not thank His servants does not give thanks to God. But we can never say that we think these services are adequate. However, we are expressing that the KOP Action Plan requires more work. As it is known, the main goal of the action plan is to perform a comprehensive turnover in its territory. Work in areas such as industry, trade, transport and energy, especially agriculture, and increasing the competitiveness of the region must be a priority. God does not place all the blessings and all the good things in one place or another, nor does He place in the earth any destitution, nor does He spread out all that is in the earth, and so does He bind the people together. No oil, no water, no water, no soil, no sun. The important thing is that God's blessing on the earth is to divide and divide between the people who live on earth with justice and justice. The KOP region, which has 100,000 square kilometers of land from this sentence, is also the least rainy area in Turkey and has at least water sources. Our eastern Black Sea Region has been raining 2,500 millimeters a year, while the KOP region, Karapınar, Salt Lake basin, only rains 250 millimeters a year. So the most obvious expression of this is that there's soil in the KOP area, there's no water. 20 per cent of Turkey's farmland is in the KOP region. Dear lawmakers, there is an imbalance between land and water in the region.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0124par0154	Go ahead and finish, Mr. Interrogation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0155	The priority, of course, is the most efficient and efficient use of our current water supply, but there is no chance of a regional farmer competing with agriculture by drawing water from hundreds of feet under the ground, and it is not sustainable. So the solution is water transfer from outside the basin to the area. It has been a very important service to transfer 414 million cubic metres of water from the 100-year-old dream of the Skysu River to the Conium closed basin through the Blue Tunnel, and we thank those who have gone through the work, especially Mr. President. There's been a lifeblood in the area, but the need for new water resources is obvious. As a final statement, Mr. President, today is December 17th. The 17th December is the anniversary of Vuslat, the year of Vuslat, the year of Vuslat, and the year of Shebiarus. I'd like to share a few words with you as you offer her mercy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0124par0158	Wait a minute, let's turn on the mike, so you can tie it up. Here you go, Mr. Interrogation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0121par0160	I'll put you through. The Lord says: "The tongue is a treasure without end and a sorrow without end. The person is hidden in his tongue. Not those who speak the same language, but those who share the same feelings agree. Everything is broken by grace, and man by thickness. It's like a hunter who talks without thinking, shoots without aiming. A good friend doesn't need a mirror. You always sow good seed, and you can't reap anything unless you sow it. A wise man does not say everything he thinks, but thinks everything he says. I wish the budget would be a blessing, and I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0125par0164	Thank you, Mr. Inquisitor. In turn, Samsun MP Fuat Koktaş. Here you go, Mr. Rootstone. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0126par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the current East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration (DOKAP), honoring the High Assembly and its fellow citizens who follow us on their screens. Established in 2012, the DOCAP, Samsun, the Army, Giresun, Tripoli, Rize, Artvin, Bayburt, Silverhouse and Tokat are located in Giresun, Giresun. From the year it was established, the East Black Sea Region intended to assess its resources, contribute to economic development at the national level, improve the income level and quality of life for our people in the region, and resolve the differences between the regions and the region. Mr. President, the valued MPs will be completed in 2023. What's really happening here will change the face of the region by increasing the number of housing from the increase in employment. The East Black Sea region is a region of industry and commerce, with rich historical and cultural values, green, spring, soiling, sun, sea and sheltering facilities, fish, vegetables, and most importantly, with hard-working, productive, loyal, hard-working people, with their networks of transportation, with its proximity to important trade centers, as well as to its importance to the country's economy. THE DOCAP Action Plan, tourism and environmental sustainability, economic development, infrastructure and urban development, social development, development of social capacity at the local level, has been set up around five basic axises. Mr. President, the valuable lawmakers, the Green Road Project within the DOKAP Action Plan, as some say, is not a project that kills nature; rather, it is a project that aims to improve by protecting nature. It is also not a road project that connects new roads to our plateaus, as is misinformation. The main theme of the Green Path Project is one of the most important action plans to improve its existing pathways. As part of the DOKAP Action Plan, the certified seed and sapling plant production, boosting the quality of nuts and tea products, the development of inventory of medical aromatic plants from the support of beekeeping, the resolving of rural infrastructure from implementing special programmes for regional exports, the support of regional shipyards from the development of efficient use strategies of ports in the region, increasing the development of modern teleferic systems for transportation from the development of human and cargo transport, and increasing the development of social development of many of the main waterworks, from the development of the development of watering infrastructure in the region's infrastructure, from the development of energy production, from the development of good energy production of energy in the region, and from the development of many of human and transport systems in the region. A lot of work has been done in the areas I mentioned earlier as part of the DOC Action Plan. Development is a multi-ethnic concept. So it is impossible to achieve success if your work in any industry you choose is not integrated with many sectors. In this regard, the DOCAP Regional Development Administration has implemented the project in 15 different cities.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0127par0178	Complete, Mr. Rootstone. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0126par0180	As of June 2014-2018, public investment of $16.9 billion was also spent in this region. Special efforts have been made recently to ensure the safety of our territory's plateaus, to protect the property and security of our people around here. I thank all of our ministers, our rulers, our staff, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has acted with his understanding. I wish the budget of 2019 to be a blessing to our country, to our nation, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0127par0183	Thank you, Mr. Rootstone. The following is the MP Radiye Sezer Kırcıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0128par0188	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of 2019. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear MPs, the future of the world depends on the right to share the economy and production, the planned work, the pursuit of innovation, and the development of information. The key to this formation, no doubt, is economic growth. The engine of the economy is not as big, famous brands as it seems, but as big, big companies, small and medium-sized companies. SMEs cover 60 per cent of the world's workforce. SMEs reduce unemployment, create new jobs, provide economic, social development. In particular, they allow economic growth to spread to the bottom, reach all kinds of layers of society, create real prosperity. Dear lawmakers, in 2002 1.7 million of businesses in our country were SMEs, and today the number was 3.6 million. We welcome much of Turkey's production, employment and exports with the KOBI. In terms of numbers, the share of the SMEs in our country's employment is 74.2%, 66.2% in the country, 56.2% in exports, and 38.8% in imports. So the COBIs are the lifeblood of our country. We say if the SMEs grow, Turkey will grow. Dear lawmakers have been set up by COSGEB to increase the share and efficiency of the SMEs, to boost their competitiveness, to improve their integration in industry. What does COSGEB do? First, it gives entrepreneurial support, supports R&D studies, provides technological production and settlement support, supports SMEs with 11 main topics, including business development, growth and financing. As part of the KOBIGEL Programme, it gives $2.545 a total of $5m to the company. In addition, our COSGEB (KoSGEB) conducted another study: By changing the COBI definition, it allowed our enterprises to benefit from these benefits by providing 8.846 qualifications to the operation. In order to have the 10th largest economy, we have to include our country's most important source of human capital, our women and our men. You know, entrepreneurs dominate the economies of countries and reveal our human source of entrepreneurial spirit. For this purpose, KOSGEB has trained more than a million entrepreneurs from 2013 to today, has provided funding, and has given more than half of which our women have received. What is the support given? If you say 50,000 euros is non-refundable, a total of 150,000 euros. I'd like to point out one important detail: when women are disabled, martyr relatives and veterans, non-refundable support, plus an increase of 20%, a positive discrimination is being made. In addition, between 2013-2017, about 45,000 businesses were supported by about $1 billion, and our women received half of that support. I'd like to share concrete examples here with you. We have an example of Adıyaman: Our brother, Naile Şahin, created his own food brand and became a businesswoman. From Ardahan, from Posof district, Serbil Özcan opened his own carpet washing business with interest-free loans. I'd like to give you an example of Tekirdağ: Göknur Ghat, who had cancer, chose to hold on to life, who was put into work by training, and became the boss of his own work, and with that morale and motivation, he beat cancer. Another name is Gulfer Kızılçay, who received the KeFEK Awareness Award during my presidential term, which is a woman in the municipality who is a low education woman today who exports along with KOSGEB supports. Another name is Kars. Again, during my presidential term, we visited him in the countryside to strengthen her. It says: The non-producing society is doomed to be destroyed. It has now learned French and has started ecotirism in its villages, even though it has a low level of education.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0129par0197	Here, finish up, Mr. Mulecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0128par0198	These examples are to find the tens of thousands. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's no surprise in these flattering examples. Why would you say that? We just need to look at our civilization roots. In Anatolia, the Bacian (the Women's Organization) is our strong-hearted sultans, our women, our mothers. Another is hidden in our beliefs. Nine-tenths of the winds are in trade. The Prophet (SAV) and his precious wives, Jesus Hatice, are a successful businesswoman. Here, these precious ancient values are our strongest legacy. For 16 years, we quickly tackled the problems of our woman, making change and transformation a very quiet revolution. I know a debt of gratitude to our world leader Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who believes in us, believes in her, and supports her, and in the name of all women. I also want to thank our COSGEB President and Minister for his positive discrimination and support for women.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0130par0203	Tie up your vows.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0128par0204	I wish our presidential government system well and prosper. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0130par0207	Thank you, Mr. Mulecioglu. Now it's time for Mersin MP Haci Özkan. Here you go, Mr. Özkan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0131par0212	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTI Group on the budget of 2019 of the Turkish Institute of Standards and the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation, from the Ministry of Industry and Technology and its respective institutions. I salute our holy nation and the Veterans' Assembly, especially the people of Mersin, who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. The TSE, which aims to ensure our country's competitiveness, to facilitate national and international trade, and to improve society's life level of standardization, fitness assessment, experiment and calibration activities as neutral, independent, efficient, and reliable, performs an important mission in the creation and pursuit of policies that will move our country forward, in science, technology, computation, software, RD, innovation and design. Turkey has gained considerable distance from the work set by the TSE (TSE) to being the country that sets standards, not the country that meets standards. We no longer apply the standards set by developed countries to our own market, but we strive to make a maximum contribution to the establishment of global standards that will allow the world's trade to be carried into a more fair and transparent environment, in line with our own needs for production and consumption. In addition to the concepts of science center, technology base and advanced industrial country, and a Turkey perspective, we believe that the concept of AR-Ge (AR-Ge) is a very important complementary element, as well as the concept of standardisation, which is at the center of all economic policies for the fulfillment of these goals of our relevant ministry of Industry and Technology. It is possible to maintain our claim for global competition and to move forward without copying anyone, as well as our own resources and abilities. The way to achieve high and sustainable growth rates with policies that will boost competitiveness and make structural transformation in production is to produce our brand values and evaluate them in the world markets. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers should know that the manufacturer who set the standard enters the market early and takes over. Turkey appears to have been actively involved in standardisation agencies to become stronger in the global market and has recently expanded its institutions. Turkey has shown a very different approach and vision for testing property rights in the period of EC PARTI governments in particular. Each of the patent, brand, design, and geographical markings has begun to see the value and importance that they deserve. As a matter of fact, countless policies, strategies and actions have been produced about property and testing rights, and they have been implemented one by one. At the point where we are today, Turkey has become one of the countries with a serious influence in all areas of testing property. I'd like to point out that Turkish businessmen are an elite brand all over the world. Any step toward promoting and strengthening our domestic and national brand is precious to us. By improving our country's standards in every area, without deviating from our goals 2023, which will make our steps strong in this context, with the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we will all move forward together on the great and powerful road to Turkey. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2019 to the best of our country, our nation, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0132par0221	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan. Gaziantep MP Derya Bakbak. Here you go, Mr. Bak Bakk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0133par0226	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my AK PARTY Group on the budget of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation and the Turkish Academy of Sciences. In his technological moves over the past 16 years, he has written his name on the world literature. TUBITAK, whose young and dynamic structure is particularly domesticating in the field of defence and technology, is proud to say that trust in a friend has reached the power to cause fear to the enemy. THE accumulation of TÜBITAK is Turkey's accumulation, the power of TÜBITAK is Turkey's power. Under the leadership of our President and President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have given special importance to developing our infrastructure for science and technology and to raising qualified human strength in this area based on this approach in 16 years of AK PARTI rulings. With our mental center, we have laid out a path that opens the way for researchers, supports scientists with incentives and scholarships, directs our children, our young people to science and technology, boosts our country's scientific competitiveness. We've signed a number of successful, domestic and national production-based projects, particularly satellite technologies and defence fields. Turkey, which is producing its own missile system in its national technology move, is rapidly moving towards its goal of becoming a production base in this area. The nations who do not guard the heavens of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will not be sure of their futures. In the last 16 years, we have claimed the heavens that have been neglected to the AK PARTY powers, especially with our breakthroughs in the field of defense. Turkey's missile family, including the highest technology, became the proud project of Göktug, Bozdoğan and Gökbekan TÜBITAK SAGE. Thanks to these missile systems, Turkey will now cut its own belly. The sensitive Guide Kit-2 winging kits, the Nuffici Bomb, the precision-guided intelligent navigation missile SOM-J and the laser-guided miniature drone missile BOZOK, which was successfully used by the Turkish Armed Forces in Operation Firat Shield and Olive Dalli, are the most concrete examples of Turkey's jump in this area. Our first national telecommunications satellite will be completed at 6A 2021, and will serve GSM on 3 continents with broadband Internet, radio, television broadcasts. See, we run four important projects: the TÜRKSAT 6A, IMECE, the National Ground Station Development Project, and finally, with the Optical Systems Research Centre, where our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan opened on October 31st, we will pass the class in space to Turkey. We will also wave Turkey's science flag in Antarctica. In 2019, we arrange the third trip to Antarctica, where we will build the Turkish science base. Dear lawmakers, we have developed cloud-coded cloud software and large data analytical software in accordance with public need. We've been investing in supercomputers for fifteen years with the National Academic Network and Information Center, which aims to boost our country's competitiveness in the scientific field. We provide the services of 2,000 researchers. We provide the European Academic Network and Internet connection of our universities with the National Academic Network; our universities, Turkish Armed Forces, RD units, the National Library, the YÖK and the OSYM, 210 different institutions, 160,000 researchers and more than 7 million university students. As part of the National Academic License for Electronic Resources, we have provided access to academic publications by research institutions. Dear MPs, I'd like to point out that we're encouraging the employment of a doctorate in industry in collaboration with the Institute's PhD programme, with universities. We also open our doors to scientists who have done well with the International Leader Research Program of TÜBITAK (TİBİTAK). That's how we aim for the transfer of information we need in the academy and industry to develop domestic and national technologies. We're opening up the scientific centers where we're going to raise future scientists. So far, we've established in Istanbul, Ionya, Alexei, Bursa, Kayseri and Elazığ.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0134par0236	Tie up your vows, Mr. Bak Bak. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0133par0238	...with the science centers that we're going to build in Gazantep and Antalya, we're going to grow individuals who are going to make what our students dream of when they stimulate their sense of science. We've also started studies for our children in 81 districts of experiment technology workshops. In 2019, we will open these workshops in our 30 provinces. In these workshops, our students will train in various areas, such as robotic coding, nanotechnology, cybersecurity, design, mobile practice and artificial intelligence, and develop projects. In 16 years, we have paid 8.2 billion for 16 thousand projects in support programmes for the private sector, creating an RD volume of $12 billion. With academic RD support programs, we've provided more than $10 billion for 20,155 projects in 16 years. Dear MPs, I'd like to tell you about the Turkish Academy of Sciences.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0135par0242	Tie up your vows, Mr. Bak Bak. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0133par0244	The TUBA, which has continued to encourage and reward scientists for 25 years, has so far rewarded 480 scientists and 196 scientific works. Science education, stem cells, cancer, food, energy, study groups and university conferences represent our country in the world of international academys, which allows scientific issues and problems to be discussed. Just as Cemil Meric said, knowledge is an endless conquest. (It will continue to be the communication bridge between the TÜBITAK and the TÜBA science world, which continues its activities with this understanding, and will play a key role in our country's development move. With these feelings, I salute the Veteran Assembly, wishing our budget to our country and our nation. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0136par0249	Thank you, Mr Bak Bakk. It's time for Istanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0137par0254	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of our National Defense Department in 2019. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Precious lawmakers are following a dynamic and proactive approach to the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, our National Defence Ministry, which meets the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces with a dynamic and proactive approach, which has emerged due to changes in the security environment, which have been rapidly adapting to the development of information and technology by maintaining its national quality, and in the last 16 years, has been established on the basis of cooperation and permanence among the national power elements on the basis of greater Turkey, and our national values, which are not bound by geographical borders, risk and threats. To develop the national defence industry, to control the security of our country, to not entrust our future to other countries. From this point of view, the Turkish Armed Forces and the needs of our security forces are being worked specifically to improve Turkish defence industry. In this framework, with the leadership, vision, strong support and pursuit of our defence industry, which was 20 per cent in 2002, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have reached the 65 per cent level of praise as of today. We also aim to bring this Indian rate to 100 percent in 2023, in the 100th year of our republic, which, hopefully, we will celebrate with honor and pride. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have begun work for the HURJET Project, which aims to make our jet training aircraft local and nationally, as the next phase of the HURKÜ, where two prototypes have been developed as the project for Turkish Genesis and Basic Education Plane Development. It is intended to meet our Air Force Command's need for combat aircraft after the 2030s with its original design model in the country. With the implementation of the project, Turkey will be one of the four countries with infrastructure and technology capable of producing combat aircraft around the world. With their capacity to stay in the air for up to 24 hours and their capacity for armed duty, our drones and armed drones are already active in the field, powering our security forces. In 2019, again, the drone and the drone will take us to the next stage where we've arrived, much more useful, carrying cargo, our drone will make its first flight. On the other hand, the MILGE Project and the country have entered a limited number of countries capable of designing and building its own warship. As part of the project, the navigational tests of the 4th ship, Künalıada, are under way, while the construction of the 5th ship, which is in frigate class, continues. As part of efforts to strengthen the power of our Navy Command, our very comprehensive amphibian attack ship, TCG Anatolia, is one of our biggest projects to run in one place. The Altay Project, which includes the design, development, and production of the main combat tank, has successfully produced prototype tanks, and has been signed with a tender for mass production. As part of the Long Range Area Air and Missile Defense System Project, two systems will be provided with a signed contract on S-400 options. As a phase of the project, studies are also being carried out to produce and design a long-range air defence system based on national possibilities and capabilities. Dear MPs, Turkey is now a country big enough to build its own weapon, its own warship, its own tank, its own drones and helicopters. I sincerely believe that with the guarantee of strong Turkey, the EC PARTY, external dependency will end, and we will achieve our 2023 goals by making the necessary breakthroughs in defence and security technologies for a leading and guiding Turkey internationally.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0138par0264	Connect your words, Mr. Ünal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0137par0266	May God make our heroic army victorious on land, on sea and in the air. As I end my words, I wish you all the best in our 2019 budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0138par0269	Thank you, Mr. Ünal. It's time for the church MP Ahmet Salih Dal. Here you go, Mr. Dal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0139par0274	Mr. President, I salute and cherish our esteemed MPs, our ministers, and our beloved nation who are watching us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of National Defence in the Central Management Budget of the Year 2019. Each country whose borders are set is responsible for maintaining these borders in order to maintain its own continuity. To carry out this burden, the tools and equipment needed must be provided by the countries. For this purpose, it is imperative that Turkey have a military force in the environment of instability and uncertainty that will deter the focus of risk and threat. For that purpose, we are building the foundation of our national military strategy. Turkey has become the hope of the Islamic world as the heir to an empire that rules the four continents for six centuries and manages to keep the various communities together in peace. After the break of the Ottoman Empire, the Islamic world, where war, blood, and tears are not missing, needs Turkey and its unifying power from its roots as never before today. Turkey has always been the target of various states because of its geopolitical position. Our country's sovereignty of the Mediterranean Sea and its territory of the Straits, the Middle East, the Persian Gulf, and its control of the Eastern Mediterranean, and its access to economic and commercial relations between the world's power centers, gives us the ability to become a regionary state. That's why we have to stay dynamic and strong all the time. Turkey must have a strong defence industry and therefore a strong army for many reasons, such as the geopolitical position above, which the Ottoman Empire, as its successor, has been the flagship of the Islamic world. On one hand in the region, we will continue to fight terrorist organizations, on the other hand, countries that are doing logistical support and financial aid to these terrorist organizations. From the day the EC PARTI came to power, a global force in Turkey's region had made its tools and tools with its own resources in its defence moves to achieve a place in the world where its word is heard, and while creating its budget, it had special importance for national defence. Turkey, which has so far been dependent on the outside of defence industry, has managed to obtain the needs of our Armed Forces from national resources over the past decade, but has also increased exports to world states. We have powered our army with weapons, tools, and tools that we have produced for the Air and Navy, and we have recently shown the world how we have increased our army's mobility with these weapons produced in Operation El Bab and Olive Dalli. In our region, we work with the awareness that a strong Turkey is essential to the establishment of peace. We're aware that one of the reasons behind the attacks against our country in recent years has been a reaction to the independent policies we've been implementing. No matter how politically independent we are, if our defence industry isn't strong, we won't get to the level we're asked to have in the region and in the world. If we'd done our budgets as really remote, imaginary budgets, we wouldn't be able to get rid of the outside dependency in the defense industry today, and maybe we wouldn't be able to talk about the success of our army today. Our goal in our defence industry on an independent and powerful road to Turkey is to make Turkey a global force in defence and security with original design and advanced technology. We have no intention of making politics through tears, building weapons, protecting our own sovereignty wherever there's subterranean wealth, wherever there's oil fields, wherever there's people who are under the blood of the oppressed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0140par0286	Connect your words, Mr. Dal. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0139par0288	Thank you. Our only goal -- on the contrary -- is to extend our help to the oppressed and the victims in both Eastern Turkistan and Africa, as well as near Syria, and to turn the imperial forces' games they're doing there into their heads. As Mustafa Kemal said years ago, our primary goal and basic strategy is self-defense. Self-defense is not limited to 783 thousand square kilometers. Is there no voice of the nation, or a nation that will extend a hand to me? We will extend our hand to the oppressed Muslims and non-Muslims around the world, and we will continue to be their voice. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I wish our budget to our country, to our nation, to be blessed and fortunate. From the past to this day, I ask God's mercy to all our brothers, who have been martyrs for our country's unity and unity, for our safety and peace. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0141par0293	Thank you, Mr. Dal. It is now up to Ismail Emrah Karayel, the MP of Kayseri. Here you go, Mr. Karayel. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0142par0298	Mr. President, I salute our esteemed MPs, our Veteran Assembly, and you, our esteemed deputies. First, on December 17, 2016, on the 2nd anniversary of the terrorist attack on which 14 of our soldiers were killed in Kayseri, I wish once again the grace of God to all our martyrs, to their families and relatives. On this occasion, I am once again cursed by all the terrorists and terrorist organizations who are trying to kill the lives of our country and the lives of the innocent. Today, I have made a commitment to our State Department's budget of 2018. Our Foreign Ministry is the international nerve endings of our state, which constitutes the international footwork of the great Turkey and its employees and the country, which aims to recognise, settle, and implement foreign policy abroad. The enforcer of our foreign policy is the first line of defence abroad, the first point of communication, the patron of our citizens who live outside our borders, and the pioneer of our efforts to make our culture geography even more active. In its foreign policy, Turkey has determined the interests of our country as a fundamental axis of justice and mercy. In our country, in our region, and in the world, we work hard to ensure peace, stability, security and prosperity prevail. Turkey continues to rise as a monument to stability, trust and hope in this world's heart, geography. The Republic of Turkey is the patron of not only this nation and the region, but hundreds of millions of oppressed people in the world. As our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said, the stumbling of Turkey means that our brothers and sisters, who have locked their eyes and hearts on us, also stumble. As a government, we do not remain silent in human drama. Since 2014, hundreds of thousands of people have died, including 50,000 children. 14 million people are at risk of starvation. According to the UN report, one child dies every ten minutes without eating. Today, as we have looked after the oppressed all over the world, he has taken care of our brothers in Yemen, and has mobilized in Yemen to heal the wounds. Turkey's stand against human dramas in Syria and Iraq is a symbol of human rights in itself. Turkey is fighting against the most bloody terrorist organizations in the region, such as the DEAS and the PKK, which feed on instability in Syria and Iraq. At the same time, we are still struggling with the terrorist organization, which attempted to change the legitimate democratic regime of our country by a bloody coup. The River Shield and Operation Olive branch, which we launched in Syria against the attacks on our borders by the PYD-YPG and the DEAS, have been cleared of these organizations. Thousands of Syrian families have returned to the area we've cleared of terrorists. Together with the operations, Turkey's position in the geopolitical equation in Syria has been strengthened and proved that without Turkey, peace and peace cannot reach the region. Again, in our foreign policy, we have high-level contacts in the Gulf region, in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in Central Asia and Turkish Republics to improve our co-operation with Asia, Latin America and African countries. An important issue, the European Union, once again stressed by our government that membership in the European Union is a strategic goal. The Reform Action Group meetings held twice in the last four months are important to show that will. In the context of the European Union, we held the 77th Karma Parliamentary Commission Meeting in Parliament on 26 April 2018 in Brussels after three years. The European Parliament is hosted in Ankara and Gaziantep to ensure the development of parliamentary dialogue between members of the Forum of Turkey, our Parliament and the European Parliament, and to provide accurate information. The delegation's visit to Nizip (2) Container camp has been shown in its place what Turkey, the world leader in humanitarian aid, has done for Syrian refugees. Again, the European Parliament, which took place in 2018, was interviewed by close to 100 percent of the European parliament. The 78th KPK Meeting, hopefully, will take place in our Parliament from December 19th to December 20th. As I put an end to my words, the Palestinians have been conducting peaceful demonstrations on the Israeli border of Gaza Strip, under the blockade since March 30th, while Israeli soldiers have been firing live bullets at civilians demanding to return to the land where they were exiled and to remove the illegal blockade against Gaza since 2016. Since the beginning of March 30, he has been a martyr in the attacks of more than 200 Palestinian Israeli soldiers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0143par0309	Does it remind you of Travel?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0142par0310	I hereby curse the terror of the state of Israel.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0144par0312	Bind your words, Mr. Karayel.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0142par0313	I congratulate our government and the State Department on its active politics in the case of Jerusalem and Palestine. I want to thank everyone who's come through on this occasion, our ministers, and I wish the ministry's budgets to be good.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0144par0315	Thank you, Mr. Karayel. Next is the speech of Istanbul MP Ahmet Berat Konkar. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0145par0320	Mr. President, I've been sworn in on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the State Department budget. I salute you and our beloved nation. Today, our world faces many crises, conflicts and conflicts, and unfortunately in our immediate geography, these conflicts are the most intense. As we as Turkey do not have the opportunity to isolate ourselves from our region, it is of great importance that our foreign policy should be conducted in such a turbulent environment, with the right vision and maneuverability, in accordance with its goals and principles. OUR national and domestic foreign policy practiced by our EC PARTY governments is also a reflection of our entrepreneurial identity, our human and spiritual values. Turkey is no longer an audience, it is a country that directs developments and manages crises successfully. He is an important actor who has been admired by the international community, using self-security, multidimensional and rational foreign policy. Dear lawmakers, the fight against terrorism -- one of our country's main foreign policy priorities -- is being carried out with determination and determination inside and outside. The multinational capacity, developed by our defence industry, is the most important factor in our country's independent decisions and effective operations. The PKK/PYD is receiving the response needed to target our country and our nation. Turkey plays its most active role in the fight against the DAİŞ. The work of our Turkish Maarif Foundation is admirable in the process of shutting down the schools abroad, deleting and taking over the elements of these schools. Dear lawmakers, our efforts to resolve the crisis in our region continue. In Syria, Russia and Iran, together with the agreements reached in Astana and Sochi. We protected millions of Syrians from a new humanitarian disaster, and we did not allow the bleeding wound to grow. It is our priority to stop the blood flowing in Syria and destroy the threat that is directed at us from here. In this framework, it is our primary goal to destroy all the construction of the PKK, both east and west of Fırat. The world will see our country's determination in this matter. As a country, we support the unity and territorial integrity of Iraq. We expect the new government to prioritize the demands of the Iraqi people, to be more sectarian and inclusive, and we strive to improve our cooperation. Russia and I also investigate our co-operation in the field of energy, economics, tourism and defence industry. We are closely monitoring critical developments in North Africa, Iran, the Persian Gulf and the eastern Mediterranean, taking decisive steps to protect the vital interests of Turkey and the KKTC. We're taking our relations with Azerbaijan to a strategic level with concrete projects. We cannot accept Israel's persecution, occupation, and lawlessness. We've been saying from the beginning that peace and peace can't come to the Middle East until the Palestinian issue is resolved fairly, that neighbouring geography can't live in stability and prosperity until the problems in the Middle East are resolved. Jerusalem is the red line of Turkey and all Muslims, it must not be forgotten. We moved the issue to the UN General Assembly and to the Security Council and gave a strong message to the world. Dear friends, we believe that a negotiation process based on mutual interest and respect is important to bring our accession process to the European Union into a positive place. We continue to contribute to NATO, one of the main pillars of our defence and security policies. We continue our policy of openness to Africa, Latin America and Asia. With institutions such as TİKA, AFAD, and Redbear, our country extends its hand to anyone in need, regardless of distinction. We're first in the world on humanitarian aid. We are the only country in the UN, OSCE and Islamic Co-operation Agency to be co-Chairs in intermediary work. Mr. President, the world is greater than the five. He translates into the conscience of all mankind. All over the world, we will continue to defend the rights of our descendants and all the oppressed. Our Foreign Ministry, which has developed regional and globally concrete, constructive businesses with the 241st largest diplomatic network in the world, is making efforts to reach our country's goals and move our national values to international level. At this point, the Yunus Emre Institute continues to grow stronger every day by opening 56 cultural centers in 46 countries, contributing to this honorable mission.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0146par0334	Here's your speech, Mr. Konkar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0145par0335	Dear friends, it is not possible to live well with countries and organizations that do not intend to get along with Turkey, that do not hide our strength and our walking to our goals, that threaten our safety. Trust, goodwill, and mutual interest are decisive in our multi-dimensional foreign policy relations. Those who criticize our foreign policy have to consider these points. As I finish, I would like to thank our esteemed President, Mr. Secretary of State and all of our ministry's dedicated employees for their service and effort. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude. I wish you all the best in our 2019 budget.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0147par0340	Thank you, Mr. Konkar. On behalf of the AK PARTI Group, the last speaker is Gaziantep MP Mehmet Sait Kirazoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kirazoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0148par0345	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group over the financial year budget of the State Department, the President of the European Union and the Turkish Accreditation Agency of 2019. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Our country's geopolitical position, historical, economic, social and cultural ties require a multi-directional and active foreign policy monitoring. This led Turkey to developing new areas of regional and global co-operation based on a human and conscientious approach led by our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has become an internationally important actor. One strategic goal of this entrepreneur, humanitarian and multi-ethnic foreign policy followed by Turkey is accession talks with the European Union for full membership. The European Union's General Secretary-General Office, established in 1999 to conduct long history of Turkey-EU relations and pre-accession process, has been transformed into the Ministry of the European Union in 2011. The EU ministry has been structured as a State Department president in the presidential system, and its autonomous structure is preserved as a sign of our commitment to the EU process. The European Union's presidency co-ordinates Turkey-EU relations, covering many areas from customs union to financial co-operation, from community programmes to civil society dialogues. The EU presidency uses pre-accession aid tools, such as IPA funds, from local to national, civil society, social policy to food security, environmental transport, rural development to education and culture. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers are trying to achieve the highest level of benefit for our country, considering the long-term and ups and downs of our relations in negotiations with the European Union on its goal of full membership. As a matter of fact, EC PARTY governments have taken significant steps to achieve this goal, carried out a decisive reform process to meet EU standards and continue to operate. As EU accession talks continue, we are all aware that political obstacles to our country's candidacy have been imposed and double standards have been implemented. Turkey has always tried to overcome these obstacles with determination to adopt the EU process, and due to the political blockages of some member states, the failure of the negotiating process to proceed in the way we deserve has only caused Turkish people's confidence in the EU. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the only official authority in our country who established the Turkish Accreditation Foundation, the other institution I promised on its budget, in 1999, and in favour of national and international standards of appropriation agencies. Turkey has financed all its expenses with its own income since 2004. In total, it has been certified by TÜRKAK, a community and private sector, abroad and abroad experimentation, calibration and medical labs, examination agencies, product, system and personnel documentation agencies, verifiative institutions and reference materials producers, a total of 1,700 ▪ compatibility assessment agencies. Before I put an end to my words, there are two things I would like to say: First of all, these services provided by ENGLISH, producers, industrialists, exporters, and above all, contribute to providing safe goods and services to consumers. The other issue is the EU's commitment to help the Syrians in our country. As you know, in all the provinces in our region, including Kilis, Hatay, Kahramanmarash and Şanlıurfa, where 400,000 are the pearls of the southeast, there is a dense Syrian population that is welcome by understanding. We expect the EU's commitment to help the Syrians will be fulfilled.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0149par0358	Finish it, Mr. Kirazoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0148par0360	Foreign aid and EU funds must also be used to finance the basic and infrastructure needs in our region, as well as projects that will allow the Syrians to return to safe areas in Syria. In this framework, I wish the State Department, the President of the European Union, and the Turkish Accreditation Agency's budget of 2019 were a blessing to our country, and I respectfully salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0149par0363	Thank you, Mr. Kirazoglu. Dear lawmakers, the talks on behalf of the AK PARTY Group are complete. Now, according to the order of entry into the system, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment from each party to a member of parliament. Then I'll meet the demands of the group's vice presidents. I'll read their names. The MPs are the ones who entered the system. Here, the names of the MPs speaking on these tours will be removed from the list. Then they can re-enter the system and get their names on the list. Let me remind you that lawmakers who now speak in the QA can only speak if it comes up. Mr. Gaytancioğlu? No.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0150par0368	Mr. President, I'm so sorry, that list is a list of questions and answers in the morning. Now, our friend has entered the question-answer, and in the afternoon, he intends, for example, to question Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0149par0369	Mr. Special, the problem is that more than 30 people are not in the system, and I can't find any other criteria to adjust their rhetorical demands according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0150par0370	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0149par0371	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0150par0372	I'll make a suggestion, if any of the other friends think it's appropriate: Now, these friends of ours, no matter what party they're from, they want a 20-minute answer to the last part of the calendar that's on the budget. And we all know that the first 10 people, maybe 11 people, can be spoken to. I think if you start with the 11th person after those first ten, if you look at the Civil Code according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0151par0373	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0152par0374	Otherwise, if the ministers are given the right to ask questions, or when you ask them, if our friend declares that he does not demand a word according to the Civil Code of 60, do not promise him, but jump, and so may be.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0375	Now, this could be a method. The problem here, Mr. Special, is that you are aware that the system cannot be accessed according to 60. In that case, if I base my list on questions and answers, I won't be able to promise any MPs according to 60. So I took it as a method, and if the friends I read your name don't want to use their rights here, I'll move on to the next one.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0154par0377	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0378	If the next one doesn't want it, their rights are sealed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0154par0379	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0380	And I've asked the parties who haven't entered the system enough to give names to the members of the group, so that after each group speaks, I can give equal speech to all parties. Now, I'm going to read your name, and if the lawmakers want to use their rights in the QA, they can report that they don't want to talk now, and I'm going to move on to the next MP. Yes, there was no Mr. Gaytancioğlu, Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0155par0384	Mr. President, I would like to inform you that I'm going to use my say-so in the QA section.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0385	Thank you. Mr. Özcan Special...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0156par0387	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0388	Is it Mr. Rock? No. Mr. Çelebi? No. Now, dear lawmakers, the following names that I'm going to read are the 10th and the following, so if they use their rights now, maybe they'll have an advantage, because there's a very good chance that they won't get a question-answer later. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0157par0392	He'll answer questions, Mr. President, he's not here.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0393	It'll depend on the situation at the time whether he can use it or not. Mr. Özer? No. Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0158par0396	I will, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0153par0397	I suggest you use it because it's in the lower ranks, and your name may not come up in questions and answers. Here you go, Mr. Liberty.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0158par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. Since we won't get a chance to answer the question, I'd like to use my say-so. I'd like to take this opportunity to address the State Department of Defense. In particular, I've been interested in for a long time, in the fight against terrorism, but we have citizens who have been injured in the fight against the Turkish Armed Forces Health Skills Act, who are unable to receive their rights due to the 40 per cent loss of their body, about 19,000 people and every election period, unfortunately, are being deceived. A KHK was issued by the government, which didn't include a lot of people, but on July 15th, a distinction was made, and I consider it a disgrace to the state. On July 15th, he was considered a vet with no regard to the conditions of injury, but these people were sent by the state to fight terrorism, whose finger was cut off, his eye was blinded, but unfortunately, the vet wasn't counted. Bazili Bey specifically said that our 7 ministries are working. Yet there is still no sound from those seven ministries. We're wondering when this will be resolved.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0159par0404	Thank you, Mr. Liberty. Now, Mr. Lightning of the National Movement Party Group... Do you want to use it now?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0160par0407	I'd like to use it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0159par0408	Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0160par0410	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish God's mercy to those of us who lost their lives in the attack on Kayseri in 2016. Today's their anniversary, let them rest in light. My question will be to our Foreign Minister: Mr. Minister, there are around 200,000, but unofficially 300,000 Syrian citizens, according to official figures in my electoral district of Mersin. The demand of our residents of Mersin and the entire Turkish nation is to return to the Syrian territories, especially to areas where the fighting has ended. Indeed, as we travel through certain streets of the centre of Mersin, are we traveling in a province of the Republic of Turkey, or are we traveling on a street in Syria, where we are not able to understand it? We'll expect you to do your due diligence on this matter as the State Department. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0161par0414	I wonder if Mr. Excession of the AK PARTY wants to use it now. If Mr. Tasty isn't here, Mr. Sugar? No. Mr. Aydın? No. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0162par0418	I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0161par0419	Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0162par0421	Thank you, Mr. President. Kahramanmarash, the city of independence and future, is among the most powerful industrial centers in Turkey. Today, our city has become a major industrial centre operating at 1,800 industrial plants, where textiles, metal kitchens, energy, food, paper industry, and cement are leading the industry. The 300 exporters who exported to 120 countries are among the provinces that have contributed the most to our country's macro goals, with an army of 150,000 jobs and our Kahramanmarash, which gave power to our country's economy. Of course, the industry of our province has some problems, needs and demands. I'd like to submit to our Minister of Industry and Technology a file that has been carefully studied on these matters.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0163par0424	Mr. Bahshi of the Good Party, please. You need to use it now, or else it won't come to you in question and answer anyway, Mr. Bahshi.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0164par0426	I will, sir. My question is to the Secretary of Defense. We've already offered a law on one type of military and paid military service, and it's still on hold in the Commission. In particular, young people who have applied for paid military service have applied for their lives as soon as possible but have been subpoenaed by December 2020. He's a victim, is there any study? When will one type of military service be transferred to the General Assembly? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0165par0430	Mr. Tiryaki of the HDP Group.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0166par0432	Mr. President, I'd like to make a request and information regarding the head of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration. One of the four cities where unemployment is the highest and rising year after year is Batman, my constituency with Mardin, Siirt and Şırnak. The unemployment rate of these four cities is nearly two times higher than the Turkish average, three times higher. The unemployment rate, 17.4 per cent in 2008, rose to 21.3 per cent in 2012 and to 26.9 per cent in 2017. There is a state profile report published by the Development Administration's President in March 2018, which is considered detailed by the GAP Administration's project and activities. Agricultural activities projects that are involved...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0165par0435	We can't turn on the microphone, Mr. Tiryaki.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0166par0436	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0165par0437	Okay. I'm giving Mr. Sandzakli an extra word in his place last session that he's been unable to grant me his wishes, and he's asked for a short word for it. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0167par0441	Thank you, Mr. President. As we discussed the Ministry of Youth and Sports budget here on Friday, of course, we left out a lot of issues due to lack of time, but I immediately left out a topic that, after the exit of the House, our president of the volleyball Federation, Mr. Akif Azüzdağ, called us with his system. The point is, at the Women's World Club Volleyball Championship, our Foundation was the world champion, and the pharmacist became the world third. It's a historical achievement. I couldn't celebrate from there, Mr. President, thank you for your promise, and we've had a chance to celebrate from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0168par0445	You're welcome. Yes, dear lawmakers, if the group's deputy presidents now have any demands, I'll meet them. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0169par0449	Mr. President, since you've already submitted your commitment demands after the bloc talks, I've just been writing down my response to the words of Mr. Deputy Director of the National Movement Party, Mr. President of the Group, to the next answer. In his speech, he described the coalition talks between the Republican People's Party and the Justice and Development Party between June 7th and November 1st as a process the Republican People's Party pardoned and welcomed this December 17th-25th process. Everyone, everyone who lives at that time, knows this, and we can also prove: Here, in 14 articles, the first clause in CHP's coalition principles began with the rule of law, and the last article was to fight corruption. In fact, Mr. Mahir Ünal, who can come and explain it all the time right now -- has criticised us for keeping the corruption of four ministers on the agenda, how will there be a coalition? The negative outcome of the coalition talks between CHP and AKP was said on that day as the most profound differences in foreign policy, national education and fighting corruption, as all columnists wrote. Now, Mr. President says that we are standing right where we are. The question is, let's show where the MHP is standing: from its official accounts, 17-25 December Anti-Corruption Week, and again, in the official accounts of the MHP.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0170par0453	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0169par0454	They had the same meeting with thieves. They had the money from inside the AK PARTI logo and shoe box in the meetings of İzmir and Istanbul, where the four ministers had no pictures, but had the same accent. Mr. Nightingale and Mr. Gardenie both stand by what we said in the past on June 19, 2018 on Star TV. Now, I'm not going to go from here to say some of the words that Mr. Gardener said. But we're asking a clear question, Mr. Nightingale -- if we're sincere -- you're saying: "Let Zarrab come, let him be judged, and this is the coming of the whole process." We can't judge Zarrab now because Zarrab is in the hands of another country, but there is something in the hands of this Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0171par0456	Why do we judge?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0169par0457	What is it? For that process, which had been opened earlier on the four ministers in the past, and was later rejected by the vote, the 105 ▪ Article of the Constitution says that the 301 MPs can re-investigation commission on these people by hand.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0172par0460	Complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0169par0461	I mean, it's not polemic at all, it's not that the four ministers come back from Zarrab to four ministers -- let's agree to the new evidence in the case of Zarrab -- and let's agree that the new Parliamentary distribution of 290 AK PARTI is saying no; let's just sign the motion with 301 signatures, and let's make sure that if they're involved in the theft, let's let them get their hands dirty, let's let them get their hands on the punishment. Why can't these four ministers have been in the Justice and Development Party, Parliament, the Ministry, the administration since then, if that's not the case? If these people have the right to remain unstained, it should be respected by the EC PARTY. We know what we're talking about. We also call MHP "Hodri!" Let's go hide the thieves...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0172par0464	Mr. Special, finish, please, put him through.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0169par0465	Last sentence. ...to keep the thieves safe, like in YIT, our left side is flu, we can't act on this side, we make our own suggestions. Are you going to say that? The horse's signatures are on us to complete the 301. My respects, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0173par0469	Mr. Nightingale... Your Honor, I will promise you, but since he's directed directly, the words...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0174par0472	Mr. President, if it weren't for Mr. Special, we wouldn't be able to raise ourselves as group president in this House, God bless you, to contribute to our experience.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0175par0473	It's our duty, we'll do it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0174par0474	Thank you, thank you. Now, sir, as I was just expressing the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0176par0476	It's itchy on her part, but God knows what's going on.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0177par0477	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0174par0478	When we were expressing the stance, the stance of the National Movement Party, we...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0178par0480	This is your group president speaking.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0481	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please don't let it be reciprocal, please... [[Interference between CHP and MHP rows]] Dear MPs, please take our seats and let's not shout at each other.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0178par0484	Mr. President, I'm so sorry, of course we wouldn't allow that, but there's a lot of bullying there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0180par0485	There's an itch on one side. He says, Mr. President, he's threatening us.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0486	One minute of noise and I can't hear you, Special. No more noise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0178par0487	Mr. President, there's a bullying going on, and you said we'd compromise, so you do your duty, and we'll respect your right to speak. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0180par0488	It itches on one side. It says.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0492	Honourable MPs are part of the character of the person. I don't think it's necessary to even give a private reminder to lawmakers from here because of their language or because of their words. If the words used clearly violate the disciplinary provisions of the Civil Code, I will not proceed myself, but they will be reviewed on the demands of the group's MPs, and if necessary, they will be processed. But it's the responsibility of all of us to keep certain measurements in each other's address without having to take these kinds of paths, which is essentially our individual responsibility. If we are having trouble carrying out this responsibility, or if there are lawmakers in groups who are having problems with such issues, I expect the group's deputy presidents to take initiative in this matter. So before I demand the direct intervention of the Deputy Speaker of Parliament who runs the merger, then the responsibility of the group's vice presidents, if that's not enough, I'll use the powers vested in me by the Civil Code. Then, when we take a break, I'd like to discuss this with the entire group of vice presidents. Thank you. Mr. Nightingale, please continue with your words.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0181par0497	Thank you, Mr. President. The National Movement Party is a political party representing primitive and leveled politics in Turkey. I'm not saying that others don't represent, so let's not get this wrong, everyone is responsible for themselves. I've also given some examples of the National Movement Party's attitude from the past to the present. As the Nationalist Movement Party, as these examples show, is there any way that we can test this axe, or this line, or this matter of accountability in front of justice, as an act that has been shown to us without any prerequisite? At this point, the nationalist Movement Party's position is clear in any interrogation, any investigation that can be done under the name "corruptions" in Turkey. Under the rule of law, before that, the ministers had no opposition to the Nationalist Movement Party regarding the forward transfer of those four ministers to the Supreme Court. Now, there's no attitude to say, let's see, what the Nationalist Movement Party is now involved in is that it's going to be difficult, or it's going to be difficult, or it's going to be a challenge from here; it's the nationalist Movement Party that's very clear about that. The National Movement Party has shown its priorities in the process that Turkey is currently in, expressing the issues that need to be fought...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0500	Go ahead, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0181par0501	...that all political parties present here should take part in a joint national position, not only in the clear process that Turkey has passed through. At a time when such great tribulations are taking place in Turkey, do you remember yesterday when these events took place in Turkey, when the fight against terrorism was at its most intense, as if Turkey was a rose of roses, or in Turkey, as if there were no sufferings in this sense, or as if there were no great dangers of Turkey's future, what we object to is that when these talks occur, do you remember yesterday when they occur? While Turkey boasts that Ataturk was the party that Ataturk had formed, we also desire a structure like Ataturk, that would act with great courage and with great celade, against the dangers leading to this country.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0503	Please make your commitments, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0181par0504	That's what we're saying to the Republican People's Party at this point, that's what we're saying. Yes, there is the Cumhur Alliance; the Cumhur Alliance is a union that holds its goal, its goal, its goal, its goal, within the framework of Turkey's vision of 2023, 2053, 2071, to become a superpower in the world. Now, it is not possible for us to say, "We are in the context of this union. We cannot accept the morality and virtue of the National Movement Party in Turkey in any way. Sir, here's the flu, here's the flu... the Nationalist Movement Party has declared and demonstrated the structure that they will act together during this parliamentary period, and he has shown courage in this matter.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0507	Put him through, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0181par0508	As the MHP demonstrates this courage, we do not approve of pursuing other political agendas with the alliances behind the doors, with the alliances they have made in the provinces, as if they were not together in the General Assembly. These agendas cannot be conducted in secret from our nation. We make everything clear, clear. We stand by our president's word to the end, and that's our attitude. There's no other word for it at this point.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0182par0510	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0511	Mr. Special, I'll make you a promise, but the other members of the group have a voice request, so I'll make them a promise first. Mr. Bilgen, you have a request. You too, Mr. Rich, and I'll give you my word. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0183par0516	Mr. President, we've discussed the situation with Yemen a few times here, and I'm glad that some of the first group's deputies have just drawn attention to the human drama in Yemen, but I think it's a little late. Despite all warnings about Yemen, it is likely that -- at least in general, by popular opinion -- for a long time, there, from the mourning declaration of the king's death to recent times, as a result of a relationship with Saudi Arabia in foreign policy, unfortunately, many children have lost their lives due to lack of medicine, lack of healthy food. There are currently boycott campaigns in Gulf countries against Turkish-rooted products, which you can see on social media, of course, related to the Spooner incident and some previous events, but I think in these matters, it's more primitive, and it needs to be moved earlier. Second, Mr. President: In the matter of which we had just discussed, December 17th or 25th, if it had been acted differently and acted quickly, today's Zarrab would probably not have been like a hostage, a leverage against Turkey in the United States. Now imagine that his partner, Zencani, was tried in Iran and said very concrete figures about how much bribes he was handing out in Turkey. Iran has made a death sentence, but has also made a clear statement of will not to execute without collecting the money. Now Iran knows what's going on; America probably knows, as much as Zarrab talked about it, but in Turkey, we still don't talk seriously about it and give public information. Now can this be explained by security, by state secret? This is the direct fact that Turkey has been put in a difficult position in the international arena.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0519	Go ahead, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0183par0520	And finally, Mr. President, I'd like to point out a very concrete, direct budget-related issue. There are now numerous cases in which Turkey has been sentenced to compensation in the ECHR for demonstration march. I'm not going to make a single file distinction, but I'd like to draw more attention to that in general. The application numbers from 2002 to 2012 were answered by the Justice Department, but the data for the following years is extremely low. Nearly every year, there are applications in numbers that will find tens of thousands in recent years; there are tens of thousands of applications, starting with two thousand figures. In the early years, Turkey's severance figures began with about 3-4m euros, and Turkey was now charged with around 6-7m euros -- 2015, 2016 -- with compensation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0522	Compromise your words, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0183par0523	Now, in a country that has been sentenced to such large figures, compensation, it is not acceptable for the decision not to be implemented or implemented, which is very closely related to the process of the European Union during this period of power. The latest statement on this matter was made on behalf of the Justice Department in Mr. Bozdağ, that there was a collection of about 80 million people, so it's a very important regulation, not that the public official who caused the breach made it pay for it, but that he himself would have to pay for it. It's not just the numbers that matter, of course, it's impossible to make up for the injustices of the breaches, but it's not acceptable to have people pay for it. Last time asked in 2017, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice declared that there was no record of the crisis, that the accounts were mixed up. If a serious, convincing statement is made about this, I think the spirit of budget talks will be important to his reputation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0179par0525	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0184par0528	Mr. President, highly valued lawmakers, Mr. President, of course, we need more than one answer when we're talking, but I'd rather not take a word in a row. So, I'd like to make a statement about two things. One of them: Mr. Hurriyet made his speech and made statements about being a veteran. I believe that for each of us, both veteran and martyrdom is a very important event, a case in Turkey, and a matter that we all care about very much. From our point of view, there can never be a categoryal ranking between martyrs, and that's exactly the way it is for veterans. The terms of the vet are already legal, it can't be arbitrary. There are veterans who fight in the main lines, and there are veterans who take the title in the war, and there's the male veterans who take the title in the war. I think this argument is out of disability, but there's nothing to discuss, because it's very clear. There's a decree issued on July 15th, and there's a decree issued under Code 675, followed by Code 684. And then they became laws, and a law that already contained all of them passed through here, Law 3713. The law already states who will be a veteran and how. So the Social Security Agency has a framework -- you need to have a body barrier at a certain rate -- the conditions are defined, how it's going to happen; you can only get the title of "gazity" if you're ready for them. The title "Gazilik" is not a title to mock. No one has ever been a veteran in this country because they've been scratched, and it can't be, it's extremely tight. So I think we should talk seriously about this, and I also find it very difficult to go through a hurtful separation between people. Now, the other issue, of course, is the matter of 17-25. So, when you can't find a new agenda, go around, reheat the old stuff, talk again. Now, here's the thing: once in a while, we have something very specific.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0185par0533	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0184par0534	We have very specific issues that have been cleared up in front of the law. That's what 17-25 is all about. The İstanbul Chief Public Prosecutor's Office -- I say in history -- has made 60 pages on 18/10/2014 -- a non-observation decision if they are not too lazy to read it. The parliamentary inquiry commission, consisting of 9 and 5 opposition MPs from the ruling party at the time, decided not to send it to the Supreme Court. As he made this decision, he did so on the basis of the decision issued by the 2014 Public Prosecutor's Office. This decision had a very important feature, and it was based on this, and I want to make sure to say that it was related to physical tracking, audio recordings, listening, that all of the digital data was forged. Now, Mr. Group Vice President is talking about the news at the time, and it's like there's a case, and it's illegal for them to listen to... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking you one more time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0186par0539	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0184par0540	There's a case where their wiretap records act like they're illegal. However, it was decided that audio recordings, digital data, all of these were forged, and it was decided that they were made, and they probably wouldn't say no, as they did in Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0187par0541	Where's the money, the money?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0184par0542	I'm telling you very calmly and seriously, please tell me after you've finished.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0188par0543	You go ahead, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0184par0544	As in Ergenekon and Sledgehammer cases, all of this was decided to be forged by Zechariah Öz and his team of judges and prosecutors. Of course, they'll remember, Mr. Kilicdaroglu played them in the band, and he played them as a huge feat, and I wanted to remind him of that. I'd like to point out that I like to think of it as a little bit like a tradesman going through old debt books, creating a political rant from something that's become very public that's not a crime in the eyes of the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0189par0549	Thank you. Mr. Special, I promise you, let me make a brief statement, please. Now, each of these matters is subject to hours of discussion, perhaps days of discussion. I mean, if there's a whole-scale purpose to reveal these issues, we're not going to be able to run the budget talks. Of course, the group's vice presidents determine their own styles and determine the content themselves, but my suggestion is that the basic positions, based on the demand for words of 60, should be presented in a clear way, be used in the form of information that does not lead to mutual debate. Otherwise, each of the topics mentioned here, as I said, have already been discussed in this Parliament for days, maybe months, and you realize that it is not possible for us to fit them into the vocabulary within the framework of Civil Code 60, but I have to cut them at a certain point. And in that regard, again, I ask for cooperation and understanding. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0190par0557	Without creating a brief, new discussion, let me tell you that if his skin were scratched, he would be considered a veteran. He criticised his statement, but the statement was not ours, but the expression of Baki Yıldırım.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0191par0558	I told him.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0190par0559	The compensation is that there's not even a 1% limit in the law decree for vets, but for other veterans, there's a 40 percent limit. Nineteen thousand people in Turkey are left behind at 38, with shrapnel in some vertebrae between the two lungs, in 36 percent, not counting veterans, but not on July 15th. We're not saying July 15th doesn't count as veterans. We say let our other veterans fight terrorism take advantage of this right. It's as simple as that. The other point: The argument is whether the lunatics are meeting in accordance with the law, but the point is that the vault put the money in first. It was said. If he did, the Treasury would be registered, but they were returned with interest. Which revealed that there was corruption, theft, dirt in the main issue, but the evidence was nullified because of the way the evidence was collected. Finally, what Mr. Nightingale just said is really worth highlighting, he says: he's saying this to make it difficult for the process in which he was involved. I mean today's local election alliances... 301 signatures that we believe in the innocence of those four ministers. If he says, "We are behind our promise." I say, "There is no thief on the picture of the four ministers." I say, "We believe in the innocence of those four ministers." I say, "We are behind our word." I say there is no thief on the picture of the four ministers." He says: "Our alliance in the region is more important. The fight against corruption... he says: "There is a struggle against terror, not a rose. We voted for you to go to the Supreme Court at the time. There were martyrs in this country, and there were veterans in the process you called the Supreme Court. If coherence prevents the fight against corruption, then you can't go to the source of terrorism. There's money in that fight against corruption, there's drug trafficking, there's some criminals laying in front of somebody, covering up evidence.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0192par0563	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0190par0564	The greatest weakness of counterterrorism is the attitude at which it does not fight corruption. And I'll tell you this in the end -- after all the harsh words he's said to us -- he says, "We stand by every word, every attitude of our general president." He says, "Look at what Mr. Gardeny said in the past: "New Turkey, the standing of the president." He said that a man who embezzled the state's vault would not be President. He said that a person who took off his honour as a shirt and extinguished his oath of neutrality as a light bulb cannot set a course for Turkey. Do you stand by this attitude, or do you stand by this alliance? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0193par0568	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0194par0569	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0193par0570	Mr. Nightingale, I promise, but please consider the reminder I just made, or I'll have to take a break. Finally, I'll meet your request, and then I'll take a break. And let me explain why I need a break so I can get some breathing time in between. We're not the only ones working in this House, we're the only ones with workers, we're the stenographers, we've got kavases, we've got legislators, and if you're hungry, you can go out and eat, you can meet other needs, but these friends can only breathe in between. So finally, let me give you a minute or two to finish what you're saying, and then I'll take a break. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0195par0575	Mr. President, thank you. Now, there's no way that we're going against the investigation of the local alliance by caring about it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0196par0577	Let's sign 301.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0197par0578	Shut up, listen! Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0195par0579	Now, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0196par0580	Why are you being rude?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0197par0581	Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0196par0582	Why are you being rude?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0583	Guys, excuse me, just give me a minute... just a minute, guys, please... please... 301... as of this moment, you're referring to the 105, the process of the President's trial.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0196par0585	So do the ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0586	106, meaning ministers and vice presidents.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0196par0587	That's what we said.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0588	You're saying it's at the point where an investigation can take place in article 106. Now, as stated earlier, when these are subject to an investigation commission, the position of the National Movement Party on this issue is in the Parliamentary minutes. The National Movement Party is one of those who demanded that this matter be investigated. I found it useful to reiterate our position at that point, and I expressed it. Other than that, there's been a decision made by the Council of Ministers in connection with the investigation after the verdict was issued that there was no room for prosecution in this investigation. Plus, other than this decision, the records of the ministers, other than the later fabrication, the alleged fraud, the alleged fraud, if there's a problem with the money, it's clear what the Nationalist Movement Party is saying here: let Reza Zarrab be brought and tried in front of the independent Turkish judiciary. Isn't Reza Zarrab the one who received that money? Right? Reza Zarrab.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0199par0591	Okay, so why don't you vote for four ministers?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0592	Reza Zarrab. The others are recording, the ministers are recording.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0199par0593	He's in Ankara...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0594	The ministers's is a recording.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0199par0595	He's in America.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0596	Vesair's evidence has been brought to the court, the prosecutor's office, and at this point, there's been a verdict concerning their fraud.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0199par0597	You're saying there's a new evidence situation, right?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0598	But what I'm saying is that I'm telling you something ahead of that, and I'm telling you something beyond that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0200par0600	Complete, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0601	Let Reza Zarrab be brought to Turkey and tried in Turkey. When he was tried in Turkey, he would be recorded as a basis for the treasure that you accepted as a basis. Why is that now? The answer to the question of Reza Zarrab will be revealed by the trial of Reza Zarhrab, and then, wherever the process is going to end, there must be a process for everyone to go all the way to the end and to be accounted for. Our attitude is clear. But we have also expressed our attitude towards the trial of Reza Zarrab. Turkey should also be tried and tried. And I say that the day will come when Reza Zarrab will answer in front of the Turkish courts. The day will come. Now, the nationalist movement party...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0201par0604	Today is the day; we can judge four ministers, four ministers; today is the day.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0605	No, sir. It's about four ministers...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0201par0606	Today is the day.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0607	Your foundation is not a matter of four ministers. The matter of 17-25 will be revealed. In the meantime, we are in the process of implementing this 17-25, building this operation and producing these false evidence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Open up, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0202par0611	Here, put him through, but please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0612	Sir, I'm trying to connect, but it's important.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0202par0613	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0614	Now, December 17-25, if it's an operation, if it's a conspiracy, if it's a plot, and if it's a plot, it turns out that this is what it is today -- the processes are going on now. In light of the facts that are about to come out of this, if Reza Zarrab has an abuse, if he's involved in bribery, if he's involved in bribery, then his account will be held in Turkish courts. The nationalist Movement Party's position is clear in the investigation of the investigating commission on the ministers. It says... what does it say?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0203par0617	He says there's a thief. You put up four ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0618	ا Anti-Corruption Week.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0203par0619	If he's got an attitude, let's go!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0620	The attitude continues.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0203par0621	If he's got an attitude, let's go! Four ministers have a thief. He wrote to them.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0622	No...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0204par0623	Please, let's not talk mutually, dear group vice presidents, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0624	Mr. President, we've already shown the continuity of our position in the House, in the grand jury of investigations, in order to submit to the High Court of these ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0205par0626	Mr. Free, I'll tell you...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0206par0627	Why did you have so much contact with the AK PARTY after June 24th?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0628	Wait a second... wait a second... I'm talking! Excuse me!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0207par0629	Dear friends, please calm down, let's take our seats. Let me give you one last minute, Mr. Nightingale, and now, please, put him through.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0631	The nationalist movement party's attitude at that time, whatever was reflected there, was reflected in the High Assembly. The National Movement Party has taken a stand in that investigative commission to move them to the Supreme Court to be exonerated and to stand trial. I don't understand how this attitude of ours can be questioned. In addition, you are sacrificing these issues to an alliance regarding local elections.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0208par0634	You said it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0635	It's an insult to the National Movement Party, and we will never, ever accept it. At the time when the National Movement Party recently took the Adana Metropolitan Municipality, even though we had only one major city municipality -- your Adana MP is sitting next to you -- my President-General gets up and says, "Aclan, answer in front of the law, then come." Who's got the liver to say that? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, open it one last time, I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0209par0639	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale, but this is the sixth time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0210par0640	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0641	Open it one last time, I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0209par0642	Okay, but please put me through, because if I give every group vice president this much time, this session is going to take a long time. Yes, but just one more minute. Put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0644	Sir, now, if there's anything to be said, I have to answer for my party.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0209par0645	Wait a minute, Mr. Nightingale, I'll reboot your time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0646	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0209par0647	True, but I say that if we try to consume these issues under the 60th Amendment of the Civil Code, we will not get results. You know, I don't think it's the principle to interrupt before you're finished, and I don't, but I expect you to understand, the entire group is acting president. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0649	Thank you very much. Sir, we're trying to operate in the House, not in style, but in an understanding trying to clarify matters, not in a polemic way.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0209par0651	That's true, but we're speaking under the 60th Amendment. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0653	Now, based on what's being put here in front of us, we don't question the stance of the National Movement Party here. The National Movement Party has shown the need for that stance, the nature of the writings you have shown, in a manner that it has shown in the Council of Investigation Commission.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0211par0654	Now's your chance. Then you couldn't afford it, now you have the power. Come on...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0212par0655	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0656	The Nationalist Action Party... the decision on those ministers... and the facts that have come up in the investigation commission... in an environment in which the falsification of these records has been discovered, in an environment in which this was an operation, should be considered by the Nationalist Movement Party... and then, in 2018, its views on the investigation of this business should be taken into consideration. This is the knot, what's going to happen... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Won't you give it to me, sir?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0213par0659	I don't want to open any more, Mr. Nightingale. Please understand. Complete. Besides, your group has talks today. It's not your turn yet, it'll be done there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0198par0661	The consequences will be the result of those trials.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0213par0662	Now, in order, Mr. Bilgen, do you wish to make a statement?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0214par0663	Mr. President, he asked me a question, and I'm going to say a sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0213par0664	One moment, Mr. Special, I promise, but I want your word.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0214par0665	Just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0213par0666	Just two minutes, tops, Mr. Rich and Mr. Special. Or I'll take a break. Let's agree on this, I promise you, because this has gone on too long.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0214par0667	It's just a...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0213par0668	Here you go, Mr. Special. Then Mr. Rich. I won't promise more than two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0214par0671	Mr. President, the answer to the question is: Who has this heart when you hand over the mayor of the Metropolitan, which you've collected from the AKP?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0215par0673	He didn't, he didn't. No, he didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0214par0674	Two: now a heart is sought, a heart. Yesterday he voted against the four ministers he called a thief. He couldn't afford it. The AKP was in the majority, it fell. The AKP is in the minority now, but if you -- you say you stand on the same line -- if you vote, the path to trial will be open to four ministers. Who has the heart, sir? Who has the heart? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0216par0677	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0217par0679	Well, I don't know about heart disputes, but there's a math flaw. So we're in the majority here. I don't know where the minority is. AK PARTY is the majority party of Parliament with everything. So, whether you have the heart or not, bring whatever you have, we're behind everything as a group to the end. Now, I'm going to say that in his private speech, he uses his arguments in the wrong way, in the wrong way, to support his claim. The only money you've ever mentioned has been found. It's money for Skopje, the University of the Balkans in Macedonia, and the money...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0218par0681	What's he doing home?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0217par0682	Right, you're right about that. What's he doing home? That's right, that's right. But in the end, the court wants this money for the university in Skopje Macedonia, for the University of the Balkans...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0219par0684	What's he doing home?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0217par0685	Oh, please, my friend, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0220par0686	Dear friends, let the deputy chairman of the group complete his promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0217par0687	He decides it's for Balkan University -- I speak Turkish -- so with interest...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0221par0688	The General Manager couldn't trust his own bank.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0222par0689	Haydar, listen to me!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0223par0690	Have a seat, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0224par0691	Would you say something to your friend, Mr. Special?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0223par0692	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0224par0693	The court decides it's the college's money, so they want it back with interest. So there's a very clear decision. You don't believe in a court of law, you don't believe in a court of law, so if it's just in your opinion, will it be right, the law be right? We personally rely on the decision of the House and on the court's decision. So, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0225par0694	Can you swear on your conscience that those four ministers didn't take bribes?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0224par0695	I'm not talking about personal matters, we're here in our group...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0225par0696	Okay, no further questions. Is there anyone who can swear?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0226par0697	Please... please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0225par0698	We're looking for a warrior who swears those four ministers aren't taking bribes?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0226par0699	Friends, please, Mr. Group Vice President, let's let him finish his promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0227par0700	As a result, we're talking to the law here, and unfortunately, your arguments are irrelevant. You bring apples and pears and you try to weigh them in the same place. Please speak with the right arguments. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0226par0703	One last minute, Mr. Rich, is it over?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0227par0704	Thank you. I like to follow the rules. It doesn't work, I see; whoever tries to get on top more wins time; two, three, six...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0228par0705	Why? We said for a minute, I spoke for a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0227par0706	But I'm in favor of the law, the law. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0229par0708	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0230par0709	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit02spe0229par0710	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0229par0001	I now open the Third Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue negotiations with the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Bill. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account The commission is in place. It was time for talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The first statement now belongs to Istanbul MP Dilşat Canbaz Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0231par0058	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I would like to say once again that the people of Haqkari, who have been on hunger strike for 40 days, have been on hunger strike against isolation and illegality, saluted the will of the people of Hakkari, the honorable and resistant stand of our MP Leyla Güven. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Today is December 17th and December 19th, 2000, and I want to remind you that we haven't forgotten that. We haven't forgotten the massacre of Maras, December 19-26, 1978. We haven't forgotten the massacre of Roboski, December 28, 2011. I am reminiscing about all the women and the women and the ones we lost in the Taybet who were slaughtered in the streets of the blockade and the curfews, and I want to remind you once again that we will not forget the oppressed, the oppressed, the oppressed, nor will we forget the oppressed. The human rights violations in prisons today have reached extreme stages. MPs, politicians, journalists, women, academics, students, workers are in prisons. Prisons have illegal, arbitrary practices. I'd like to give you a few examples: nude search, book, newspaper, magazine bans, pleasure ward search and exiles have become common in prisons. Today at Van F Type Prison, 2 prisoners of prisoners who have been exposed to arbitrary search and battery in wards in the morning and evening, are on a death fast on their 92nd day. We want them to make a sound here in the House. From here, we demand that the Justice Department be heard as soon as possible and stop these inhumane practices in prisons that are now being tortured. I have a pledge on behalf of my party for the Ministry of Industry and Technology budget. My condolences to the families of our citizens who lost their lives in the accident in Ankara last Thursday, and to the wounded. The picture of accelerated projects for elections today is the safety of our people's lives and possessions. A report of the Court has been published today -- which all the MPs in parliament have heard about -- has been highlighted that many railways have been put into service before the signaling system has been completed, as in the railway road in Ankara, where the accident occurred. According to the report, productions that affected life safety, such as the two proposed projects signalification, were delivered without completion. Yesterday we'll say Chori, Ankara today, and where is it tomorrow? The power must soon fulfill its responsibility, and these neglects in the railways, which are called the safest transport, must be removed immediately. The Ministry of Industry and Technology's general budget for 2016 was 4 billion 375 million and 275 thousand euros, and the budget rose to 5 billion 147 million and 466000 TL in 2017. In 2018, the budget budget of 5 billion 793 million and 391,000 euros was earmarked, and at the end of August 2018 the amount of 3 billion 967 million 876, 158 euros was spent. THE Ministry, which houses science institutions such as the Turkish Academy of Sciences, has prioritized the war industry in scientific research and development projects, including social sciences, physics, chemistry, mathematics, and so on, have been left behind by many studies that directly affect society's life. Unlike the AKP's government, which has done no serious work for the development of scientific activity in our country, which is not encouraged by the development of scientific activity, it insists on its policies, which promote, target, target, preventing scientific work, suppressing academic and free thinking. Let's take a look at the State of Emergency process, where more than 6,000 academics have been expelled from universities, hundreds of academics are still on trial for using expression and freedom of opinion. On this occasion, those who do not submit to oppression and unlawful practices, the defenders of conscience, science and free thought, salute the peace academics with respect and love. I got a note where I was sitting a while ago, as a substitute friend of ours was doing such good work -- doing a presentation on the technology and science of the AKP government -- and he said, well, I'd like to ask you which of these are made by scientists. With so many academics today, so many scientists trapped inside, who are we going to do with the investigations? Yeah, we're gonna make our dreams come true. He said, "I want to ask you who we're going to make our dreams come true with." Throughout the AKP's rule, science, art, philosophy have been diverted, people who are interested have been targeted, and many scientists have left our country as a result of these policies. According to data from the German-based Institute for Employment Research Brain Migration Database (April 2018), Turkish immigrants with the level of higher education and education of 20 countries in the Economic Co-operation and Development Organization have unfortunately endured 3 · Global Global Voices in 30 years. The AKP's government must immediately abandon its anti-science policies, end its pressures on scientists and freedom of expression. The neoliberal policies of the imperial, capitalist world exploitation system across the world for workers and oppressed peoples steal more than our lives every day. These barbaric colonists, who covet the last penny in the workers' pockets, are asking the poor not only to steal but to increase their shameless work hours, to increase their rights and to turn over to the bosses, to limit the taxes taken from the bosses. The 16-year representative of Neoliberal colonists in our country, AKP, co-owns this exploitation scheme. During their 16 years of rule, the boss, who gave workers, laborers, peasants more poverty, more savings and more debt, always protected the capital-friendly AKP power against the worker, his boss against the villager, the tyrant against the oppressed. Even the minimum demands of workers were made by the gendarmes' club, police gas, and the AKP's government, which pressed with a stick of justice, for the bosses, to create more wealth. Education, health, social policies, and so on have been saved in many rights. He made the unemployment fund of the workers pursue banks, loan sharks, and bosses. During their rule, they gave the laborer nothing more than poverty; they argued over what more can we steal and gain from workers in boss clubs, troops, foundations? What did the AKP's government today give to the workers who gave the bosses more prosperity and profit? Let us look together: Over 20,000 workers have been slaughtered in 16 years in the work killings. The Sugar Factorys have been privatized. Paper factories (SEKA) have been shut down. The Unemployment Insurance Fund was used outside the scope of its establishment, and 11 billion dollars were transferred from the funds to three public banks. Under the amendment to the Employment Law, the hiring offices were established, and the workers were forced to modern slavery and unsecured work. 15 workers' strikes were banned each time by the national security and the state's statement to hide their colonial arrangements, thefts and lies, seven of which were held during the State of Emergency, 2016-2018. The third airport workers' action to pay their healthy housing, nutritional and unpaid fees has been attacked by the gendarmes and police, and dozens of workers have been arrested by the AKP's administration. Hundreds of workers are being fired from their jobs because they are unionists, whose wages, economic and social rights are being imposed every day in different working areas of our country. Today, the Flormar workers in Gebze, the Cargill workers in Burma, the municipal workers in Aydın, the TUVTÜRK workers in Urban and Mugla, the TOKI workers in Mamaki, the Superpark workers in İzmir, Antwerp, Karaman (real, Metro, and Macro Market workers) continue to resist the rights. From here, I salute the resistance of the resistance workers. In 16 years, the AKP government has created a hell for the workers; Soma, Ermenek, Shirvan, Şırnak, Afshine, Toruns, Davutpaşa, Tuzla, Ostim, Kozlu, Karadon, Esenyurt, mass workers remain in our memories. Behind the massacres, it's always the bosses the AKP has macheted. While the AKP's government is preparing this budget, it is in the interest of the bosses, loan sharks, banks, not workers, workers, peasants, but multinational corporations of imperialism. So it's not the public budget, it's not the women's budget, it's not the workers' budget, it's not the student budget; it's not the budget of the academy, the health, the law; it's the budget of the palace, the government. On behalf of my party, we say no and thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0074	Thank you, Mr. Canbaz Kaya.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0233par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0076	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0233par0077	Mr. President, during the speaker's speech, he used a lot of non-lawful statements, such as the "rehinsak" (e.g. I'd like to answer that, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0078	Mr. Turan, I've already told you, I'm not going to make a commitment as a principle until the speech of a group is completed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0233par0079	All right, Mr. President, at the end of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0080	I've asked for your help and cooperation in this matter. I'll give you my word when the speeches are finished. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0234par0082	Mr. President, there's a new procedure here that needs to be observed, but now, the right here comes from 60 to 69, and if you appreciate 60, for example, 12 speakers from one group in a row, each one in an attack. It is not possible for the deputy head of the group to answer all of them in two minutes -- that's Mr. Bulent, tomorrow I'll be Mr. Nightingale, the day after tomorrow -- to answer all of them in two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0083	You're right.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0234par0084	So the 69 scope should be excluded from this assessment.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0085	You're right, Mr. Special, I've already highlighted that when I opened the merger today.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0235par0086	It's on budget, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0087	I'll meet your demands later on from 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0236par0088	I get it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0089	I saw the issues that were mentioned earlier as criticism, accusations, but I didn't take them as insults or bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0236par0090	I understand, sir. Over.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0091	Therefore, when any statement in 69 is used, when I appreciate it, of course I will make a promise from the bench, but I will meet the demands of the members of the group's presidents, according to 60, after each group's speech is complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0236par0092	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0232par0093	Thank you, Mr. Special. Next up, Congressman Ayşe Driver of Şanlıurfa. Here you go, Mr. Driver. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0237par0098	Mr. President, I'd like to start by bowing to Mr. Leyla Güven, our beloved MP, who has placed his body on a hunger strike for 40 days, first to develop a democratic solution in Turkey and end the isolation. Yes, dear friends, I have made a commitment to the GAP Regional Development Administration. Since the GAP project has not been completed for more than 30 years, and its purpose for the social dimension of this project has not been achieved, the region continues to migrate, and farmers leave the agricultural areas. That's because the project's rate of irrigation is close to half of 47 per cent, when electricity energy has run out at 78 per cent. The main stage that will enable the development of the region is the agricultural areas that need to be watered. The GAP project is a project that will contribute greatly to the development of not just the region, but the entire country, but we must not ignore a point where we must avoid it. The region's historical and sacred areas are being destroyed by the dams and the region's historical memory, the ecological structure of the region is being wiped out. Therefore, projects must be implemented in a wholeness while they are being conducted. A new habitat is being built on one side, while the historical memory and ecological structure of the region must not be destroyed. Yes, dear friends, because the GAP is not finished, agricultural support is inadequate and costs are high, farmers give up production and livestock. That's why we eat vegetables and meat so expensive because we're in a situation that imports agricultural products and meat. We eat GMO products, hormonal fruit, and dyed, sweetened foods. Yes, valuable lawmakers, the agricultural production policy that AKP has implemented in its 16-year power is more about the needs of its own supporting capital than the needs of the producer or the social need. See, the problems of Ceylanpınar, Viranşehir, Siverek, Bozova, Hilvan, Suruç, Harran, Akchakale, Halfeti, Birekük and Urbana are ignored. Despite all these problems and hardships, thousands of tons of cotton, grown by a thousand years of hard labor, are now in storage because last year, cotton sold for 3,000 TL is not even available for the same price. This year, in Urbana, the cotton that was showered early in the rain could not find a buyer for 2,000 TL. That price doesn't even cover the farmer's fertilizer costs. Our farmers, our workers who work in cotton fields, can't even pay for their efforts because cotton can't be sold. We'd like to ask if the AKP government has any idea of the problems of our farmers living in Urbana. Dear friends, Turkey, along with the AKP, has reached the point of a country importing cotton. In 2000, 566 thousand tonnes of cotton were imported, while 914,000 tonnes of cotton were imported in 2017. In 2017, $1.67 billion was paid for cotton imports. Thus, Turkey today imports cotton, as it imports its meat, its wheat, its fertilizer, its seed. With the imports and insufficient support policies, cotton fields are becoming increasingly narrow, as is the case in other agricultural production areas. From 2002 to 2017, 30 per cent were narrowed down in cotton production. Instead of solving structural problems, the AKP finds temporary solutions to problems with import policies. The increase in input costs, against diesel, fertilizer, agricultural medicine, and so on, the manufacturer gives up the production of cotton. Last year the farmer's fertilizer prices doubled this year. Last year the prices of agricultural medicine increased by 300 per cent this year. Last year the diesel was $4.5, and this year it went up to $6. So this way, cotton production for the farmer is no longer sustainable. Hence, support for cotton, corn, peanuts, and other agricultural products is not enough. Because of these conditions, cotton, corn and peanuts and other support bonuses must be rearranged, considering the economic crisis, the country's conditions. While our farmers struggled with these costs, they were condemned to traders, banks, cooperatives and loan sharks to pay off the debt of water and electricity that they bought. Today, there are only 66,978 farmers in debt due to electricity debt, and 2.666 farmers are in effect. With AKP power, the farmer's debt increased by 20 times, approaching $100 billion. Fifteen years ago, about $5 billion, and in 2018, it was said to have come close to $100 billion. Therefore, the farmer is trying to close his debt with a new loan from banks and loan sharks while selling his product for half price while still in the field. All of these practices show that AKP's agricultural policy is developed within the framework of an understanding of how much the merchant will earn, beyond a political approach that precedes small-income, peasant, poor, labourer. Yes, dear friends, again, today, I cannot pass without mentioning a problem in the Plains of Suruç. Since the drainage channels for Suruç Plain have not been opened, thousands of acres of farmland, corn, cotton, and other products are now underwater and uncultivated, friends. Yes, the people of Suruç, the people of Pirsus, are suffering a victim. Dear MP, there's also land mines in the area. With the removal of the mines of these fertile lands, which totalled 1,3,600 hectares, there is a significant land to be distributed to the landless peasant. The way to reduce non-foreign unemployment, which is officially above 15 per cent in the region, lies back to agriculture. With effective land reform and mines cleared, all unusable farmland should be given to the use of the landless peasant, creating the basis for their organization in democratic co-ops and their active organisation in production, marketing. Dear lawmakers, Urbana has not only problems with agricultural production; they also have problems with education, health and transportation. Students go to school on donkeys because of no vehicles are used in the village routes in the village of Ohul/Yumrutepe and in the village of Siverek. Yes, my friends, this is the picture of a city in the 21st century, in a city as ancient and cradled by civilizations like Urbana, and this is the painting of the AKP. Why does the AKP government not see the Ohul/Yumrutepe, Bejik/Dibezdüzü, Küçük and Aztaş village? It seems that the AKP does not according to the needs of the public, but by doing the rants, do whatever it wants to do, because the majority of these villages are the villages that vote for HDP. Again, the roads of Arslanköy, Düzık, Kalmez, Varin, Çilhil, İshan, Menekecer, Menekecer the Great, Menekeçer the Small Golden Basak, Suanya, Job Nebi, the swords of our village, Ersin, Live, Grape, Haramidere, Haramidere, Kurallıköy, and mehras are not to be used in the current winter conditions. I wonder if the current government is aware of the problems and tribulations these peasants face. Dear lawmakers, the equipment and equipment of state hospitals is referred to permanent Gaziantep, or private hospitals because the current health workers are understaffed. See, there is a serious shortage of doctors in the children's health and disease department in Şanliurfa, with more than 2 million populations. There is only one doctor in the children's gastrology. Although Urbana is one of the highest cities of obstetrics, there is only one obstetrics unit. As with agricultural irrigation, many villages suffer from drinking water problems, while villagers bring water to their homes with their own means, but the state organises high amounts of water bills to villages where there is no service. Yes, my friends, even before I speak, from Siverek, from Viranşehir, from our people who know that I will speak, and from our citizens in particular...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0238par0118	Here, complete it, Mr. Driver.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0237par0119	One of the main problems of Urbana is the electricity problem. In Viranşehir, Siverek, Karakörü, Halilieh, Ayyübiye, and Suruç, the electricity is cut all the time. While the citizen suffers from constant interruptions, his need for proper energy can not be met, he is also victimised by high electricity bills. Does the people of Urbana know about these gangrenized electrical problems of political power? Yes, dear friends, again, all these unresolved structural problems of Urbana bring heavy social consequences. Young people die in drug claws because of unemployment and private policies. The AKP is leading Kurdish youth into a drug den with its policies in Kurdish geography. The age of drug use in Urbania and the districts has reached the age of 10. The government condones the poisoning of our young people, who are the guarantee of our future, and manages this process with special policies. Just yesterday, a father of Urbana rebelled against the sinking of his son. He must have said the government didn't do enough to fight drugs.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0238par0122	Put him through now, Mr. Driver, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0237par0124	The police of the state, who should have rescued his son from this swamp, have beaten the boy, and the father has declared that we do not allow our right to the state in this regard. This war and conflict that have been going on in the country over the years, which has rocked society deeply, has continued to grow to dangerous levels of drug addiction, a new social collapse. In many cities, growing use among young people leads to death, while on the other hand, corrupting society. In the West, the proportion of drug use produced as a result of AKP's neoliberal policies has become widespread in the region, especially in Diyarbakir, Urbana and Mardin. The state must immediately give up its private policies and take the necessary measures. Yes, dear friends, that's why we say that as women, young people, villagers, urban workers, we call this budget no, it's the budget of the palace. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0239par0128	Thank you, Mr. Driver. Now it is the turn of Diyarbakır MP Imam Taşçıer. Here you go, Mr. Stonesman. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0240par0133	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. On the 40th day of the hunger strike, I also salute Hakkari MP Leyla Güven, who was held in prison for being Kurdish. Again, I salute the MPs and all the prisoners who have been imprisoned for identity and political thinking in the person of Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ, who has struggled to resolve the Kurdish problem, Mr. Selahatin Demirtaş and the Kurdish problem. We call the budget 2019 no. The reason is that we believe there is no equitable, fair, democratic budget. And this budget, we say, is a single, central, security budget. This budget, we say, is a budget designed to ignore the people and beliefs of Turkey. There are no Kurds in this budget, and there is nothing in this budget about the solution to the Kurdish problem, about peace. Nothing that develops the language, culture, and education of Kurds, whose population is around 25 million, is in this budget. Unfortunately, Kurds still cannot study their native language, speak their native language, express themselves freely. So in this part of my speech, I will try to express myself in my native language, Kurdish. (PHP 3, PHP 4)
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0241par0138	Mr. President, step in. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, why don't you intervene?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0242par0139	Mr. President, what kind of... if it's a word, what is it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0243par0140	What should we do, Mr. President, what should we do?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0241par0141	Why don't you do your job, why don't you step in?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0243par0142	Mr. President, fulfill your responsibility.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0244par0144	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, he's speaking himself, there is no law against that in the Civil Code... Mr. Stoneslayer, excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0146	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0244par0147	Mr. Stonemaker, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0148	I called the General Assembly in my native language. Did you hear what I said? Do you understand what I'm saying?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0246par0149	We don't get it!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0247par0150	I'm sorry, what am I supposed to understand?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0151	You have to understand...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0248par0152	What did you say? Did you swear? Speak properly!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0153	If 25 million Kurds live here, you should also understand that language in this country, where it needs to be expressed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0249par0154	Say that!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0155	Again, moving on. These cards, printed in this Parliament, have been my request, and on the other side in Kurdish; on the other side in Turkish, on the other side in Kurdish; on the other hand, they are not accepted, but in English. Why is it printed in English but not in Kurdish, 25 million Kurds live in this country, and I'm telling it to draw attention to it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0250par0158	It's not what they do here for friends who serve abroad.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0159	Dear lawmakers, language means much more than being a means of communication. Each language is a carrier of the history and culture of the language-speaking society, but for every human, its native language has its own significance and place. The language is an integral part of its personality, identity, emotional and mental development. The mother tongue, the only language that denies the existence of different languages, excludes them, the one nation ideology must now be abandoned. In particular, in some countries that adopt a multicultural, multiethnic and multiethnic society model and even develop it within a model, it has been adopted as politics, as well as teaching the dominant language, as well as teaching the second language. Turkey has officially committed a cultural genocide crime, which has been the primary right to education in the main language of the Kurdish people for more than 90 years, particularly the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, said yes to almost all of the other national contracts and conditions in this area. Likewise, Kurdish music was banned for years as a result of the ban on Kurdish language. This also prevented the development of Kurdish literature. Even in Ottoman times, the Kurds, like other peoples, had their native language, their education and education under the means of that day, their culture. Yes, members of lawmakers, the reactive friends, published by the Ministry of Culture in 2010, four hundred years ago by Ahmed-i Hani, the immortal work of Mem û Zín. Kurds must be given the right to education in the native language that has been declared, the language of education from Kurdish, basic education to university, and have all the rights and privileges Turkish has, the second official language in Kurdish.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0251par0163	He's so smart!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0164	Assimilation is the ultimate goal of eliminating the Kurdish people of around 25 million living in Turkey and their efforts to ban their language and culture. At the coming point, radical solutions have been tried to be developed with the 1925 Shark Islahat Plan, 1935, but no results have been achieved. Today there are around 200 countries of the United Nations. In 135 of these, there are more than one official language. There are even 5-10 and above official languages in some countries. They receive education and education in more than one official language. There are two official languages in Israel that you dislike: Hebrew and Arabic. Again, in large countries, such as India, China, America, Europe, the people receive their education in their native language as they would like. Children who are not educated in the native language are known to experience serious learning problems and academic failures, especially in the first degree of education. Clearly, this is a serious negative for both the right to education and the equality of opportunities in education. TRT 6, which has been broadcast in Turkey in recent years, then the TRT Kurdî, which has been renamed TRT 6 inadequacies, broadcasts in Kurdish for 24 hours, and the radio broadcasts 24 hours. This, of course, is a positive development for Kurds and Kurdish, but I wish such steps were taken in the field of education. Today, however, public schools and private educational institutions do not allow primary language training. The AKP, which came to power in 2002, has taken back its steps on Kurdish development and education, although it has many words about native language education. At the coming point, primary schools that provide Kurdish education, which are supported by some municipalities, have been shut down, while the centres for kindergarten, kindergarten and children's education and development continue with Turkish education by trustees who have been assigned again. Young academics studying Kurdish language at Mardin Artuklu University's Living Language Institute have been dismissed, the Kurdistan Department has been disabled; students have been banned from singing in Kurdish and folk studies. Thus, Kurdish is being forced away from the public area by the Turkish Cypriots.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0252par0168	They weren't taken from him, they were taken as academics. They're the ones, the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0169	Dear lawmakers, political authorities reflect their political stance on the country's fundamental problems within budget law proposals. The Proposal for the Budget Law of 2019 also reveals the AKP's approach to the Kurdish problem. Although the Kurdish issue does not stand as a title in the budget law proposal, the question of how the AKP will approach the Kurdish problem in the next year's political line affects the majority of budget pencils. In this context, the 2019 Budget Law Proposal points to the fact that the approach to the Kurdish issue is unresolved, as a continuation of the 90-year state tradition, it does not see the Kurdish problem as part of a democracy problem and the issue of freedoms. With such approaches, it deepens unresolvedness rather than the solution to the Kurdish problem, bearing the goal of democratizing Turkey, increasing its level of authoritarianisation. Despite the idea of power, the Kurdish issue and the problem of democracy certainly have unrefutable reality and currentity. On June 30, 2018, President Erdoğan rejected the Kurdish problem carrying the heavy burden of history. This rejection also means the ownership of history. The same Erdogan said in his speech as Prime Minister in Diyarbakır in 2005 that the Kurdish problem is my problem, that it is my duty to solve this problem. Between 2002-2015, policy on solving the Kurdish problem has been developed several times, from the fire shirt to the hemlock poison. By 2015, when we look at AKP power, we see not only the Imralı and Kandil talks in the process of resolving, but, as a whole, he has a policy on Kurds. What is it now that's turned into such anti-Kurdish politics? History will question that, too. We can't solve the Kurdish problem by raising the national Defense Ministry budget. We'll just save a lot of money for the gun, we'll give the workers, the workers, the villagers, the poorer, the greater the unemployment rate. When we look at recent history, we see that the rulings who are trying to push the solution to the Kurdish problem in oppressive ways have not been successful at all. Those who were tried in the Şark Istiklal Courts in 1925 were either executed or expelled from their homeland. In 1935, they were relegated from their homeland to the western provinces, where they were relegated by the mandatory housing laws and the property of the prominent people of the Kurdish community. Civil settlements, primarily my class, were bombed; old, children, women were slaughtered. You remember, Mr. Erdogan also apologized to the people of Dersim on behalf of the state during the prime minister's term. Nevertheless, such methods did not finish the Kurds or solve the Kurdish problem. In recent times, the Kurds again tried to be captured, and in 1980, the Kenan Universe struck a fascist coup in the army hierarchy. Again, thousands of Kurds were torn out of their homeland and thrown into prisons. This was not enough, but in the 1990s, the DEP was taken from Diyarbakır Mayor Vedat Aydın's house, under the fingernails, and killed in cold blood. In the ongoing period, it has been alleged that nearly 17,500 ▪ were killed in an unsolved manner. The administration of the period called on the army to suppress the events, but it still didn't end, 4,000 villages were evacuated, 4 million people were forced to emigrate from their homeland. This was not enough, but most of the Kurdish geography was declared forbidden by pedestrians. In this region, which has already been uninvestigated throughout the history of the republic and is the only source of income for animalism and agriculture, millions of head animals are not able to feed, and livestock are no longer available; people are away from agriculture again. After that, the AKP, which came to power in 2002, went to new practices, not seeking the 1980s and 1990s. In November 2015, the president of the Diyarbakır Bar was killed with a bullet in the head while dozens of cameras were on during a press conference, but so far the perpetrators have not been caught. It was the beginning of a new era when the murder was left unsolved. We say this problem cannot be solved by arresting politicians and Kurdish lawmakers who want to solve the Kurdish problem by putting tens of thousands of people in prison who are doing civilian, democratic politics. This time, instead of burning down the village, the cities were destroyed. Diyarbakır Surici, a seven-year-old history, was destroyed after the conflict ended. The destruction is still going on. No one's been able to get into the area for over three years. Citizens whose homes have been destroyed don't even know where their homes are. Again, as in the '80s and '90s, the curfews continue, curfews are declared in a large area, and peasants are prevented from even going to their own animals. Today, 96 trustees have been appointed to the municipality, and Kurdish will is ignored here. By appointing trustees, the will of 25 million Kurds has been seized, and your choice means nothing to me. It is said that the trustees were also nominated in some places in the March 31st elections. In order to erase Kurdish history, culture, memory, Roboski in Kayapınar district of Diyarbakır province, Orhan Doğan in Cizre, Uğur Kaymaz in Kızıltepe, Ahmadi Hani in Ağrı were destroyed by trustees who came to power.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0253par0183	Complete it, Mr. Stonesman.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0245par0184	Since the beginning of my talk, the subjects I've been talking about have been repeated methods and methods in the last century. With these methods, a huge problem that has cost the Middle East and the world, such as the Kurdish problem, cannot be solved. The name of the solution to this problem is ▪Democracy, and the solution to this problem is that the representatives of the Kurdish and Turkish peoples who have lived together for centuries sit at the table, and this Parliament, my friends, is the solution to this problem. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0253par0187	Thank you, Mr. Stonesman. To speak now, Adana MP Tulay Hatimoğlu is in Oruç. Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0254par0192	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I regret to inform you that, like every ministry, this is a ministry that is getting further and further away from scientific work, and as far as the work goes, I'm expressing it. I'd like to start with direct samples because I'm on a deadline. Like TUBITAK. Yes, TÜBITAK wasn't doing great work in the past, no doubt it was lacking, but now, when we look at the changes made in the administration, many projects have stopped now, unfortunately, by signing and looking at the ideological criteria and where they came from, rather than using scientific criteria to evaluate their applications. For example, some young people wanted to make fibers that speed up healing from waste crabs and shrimp shells, and they offered nanolifting, but this was rejected by TBITAK. The same project, 54 countries, were selected 1st in the world in 2,450 projects, but TÜBITAK refused this project. The Ministry of Industry and Technology must have a strong infrastructure because all of its work is undoubtedly a science-based study. For this, education should have a strong infrastructure, but the share of higher education is 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively 4.14 per cent; 3.97 per cent; 3.64 per cent; 3.44 per cent. Dear friends, the President expressed in a speech at the opening of 9 September University: How is it that Turkey is not read between 500 universities in the world? The answer to that question is clear. The aliens didn't change this training system, you did. So, of course, you can't read the study of the universities in Turkey. You changed the curriculum in physics, chemistry, biology. It's not us who make education religious, regressive, sexist, it's you, so it's you. Dear friends, I'd like to express a few things for the project of the Plains of Conium and the head of the Black Sea Region Project Regional Development Administration. Turkey's wheat barn, as you know, is the Plain of Conium. The Lion Plain Project is now a project in the region of about eight provinces. But we have a very important issue here: serious thirst is being experienced, and particularly one of the things that needs to be focused on are the sinkholes that occur in the Conium Karapınar. Dear friends, Fetullah Arık, head of the Conium Geological Engineers Room, gave some figures: In 2017, there were 11 sinkholes in the year 2018, 9, 2019, and they also threaten human life. Hence, some measures must be taken here. Land protection and land use must be planned, instead of agricultural products condemned to GMO seeds, domestic production should be encouraged instead of agricultural policies, measures such as sustainable governance of land and combating erosion should be taken. Of course, if we talk about the East Black Sea Project, the first thing we're going to say is that Turkey is the Green Road, which is closely followed by the public. With no rights to nature, only the rights of investors are sought to open the Green Road with the rights of corporations. The goal was to connect many HES projects, the quarry projects, and there have been various objections to the work done in this context. I just want to express one. In the case of TEMA (TEMA), the situation is summarized as follows, it is important that there is a document on the side of the court: 1/100. The 2,000-scale environmental order plan was rejected because it was unintegrated. The dangers, floods, and floods that will occur here are not calculated in any way. In our region, which is a teamaker, is a nut manufacturer, do you wonder if these farmlands are going to be damaged? No calculations are being done, and our fellow countrymen, unfortunately, who live in the mountain East Black Sea region, are faced with the fact that they are from their own territory again. Yes, short-term interests destroy long-term possibilities. Unfortunately, that's what's happening in these areas today. The Plain of Conium, Çukurova, and the Black Sea are the fertile lands of this country. We must appreciate these fertile lands and make policies from here. How well did Mother Eve, of all the villagers who resisted, say, "There is no Green Path." Who is the state? The government is the government because of us. I am my people. He said so. Listen to the demand of the people, not the capital and the rant gangs. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0255par0206	Thank you, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting. Now it's time for Congresswoman Nusrettin's match. Here you go, Mr. Gamein. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0256par0211	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, this is a time when science and technology are at its peak. Capitalism has developed technology at a level that no society has ever been able to reach; it has developed and developed from industry to trade, agriculture to service, education to transport, communication. But the same capitalism uses technology, not in general, but in the service of a handful of ruling classes. Technology is reflected in proportion to the public, the worker, the laborer, but to the bourgeois exploitation and profit opening. In 16 years, AKP officials often explain to the country how they have survived, how they have made great progress, but data shows that Turkey's brain migration has reached a digitally unprecedented point in history since 2016. If a country's industry, science and technology budget is lower than that country's one-man presidency budget, can science and technology move forward in that country? Turkey is the 24th in 34 countries with the highest brain drains. Turkey has lost 59 out of every 100 well-educated people. 73% of youth studying at university in the country want to work and live abroad. According to the International Migration Statistics Report, published by Turkey's Statistics Agency, the number of immigrants from Turkey in 2017 increased by 42.5 per cent compared to the previous year to 253,640. We consider this to be one of the consequences of tens of thousands of people losing their jobs in accordance with the laws of the State of Emergency, which have been in effect for two years after the July 15 coup attempt. The 12 academics who have been expelled from their duties in higher education institutions under a decree declared under the state of emergency since 1 September 2016 are professors, 472.7 Again, 79,000 imprisoned and convicted students wrote in the report of the Cumhuriyet daily on April 10, 2018. Again, there is not a single university among the top 500 universities in Turkey. One of the most important reasons for all of this is the country's failure to solve the Kurdish problem, the derailment of democracy. In the country, the withdrawal from the universal norms of law, the limitation of freedom of thought and expression, the removal of media freedom, the danger of interfering with the lifestyle are the main causes of increased brain migration in recent years. Yesterday, the Interior Minister made a historic confession on this bench. He said that the September 25, 2017 referendum by the Kurdish regional administration was nullified along with Iran and Iraq, under Turkey's leadership. He's right, but he's telling the truth. We all know that global forces tolerate this situation. We know how close they were to the regional administration in terms of diplomatic, commercial and intelligence. It is widely known that the annual trade volume is over $50,000. However, when Kurds declare a historic decision and political will regarding their future, the AKP's ruling is justified by any involuntary attack on both Kurdish regional governance and Rojava. In recent years, there has been a war situation in the Middle East, including global forces, and it is evident that this will continue for much longer. Yesterday, we all know that there was no attack on Turkey from the regional administration and there would be no attack on Rojava. Let the Kurds decide with the Syrian regime whether they will form autonomics or federation. Our call to the AKP is to stop Turkey from continuing its foreign policy through Kurdish anti-Kurdishism. When talking about Kurdish collective rights, do not create the perception of division and anxiety. Turkey is known to have between 20 and 30 million Kurdish populations, one-quarter of the population...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0257par0219	Here you go, Mr. Gamein, finish up.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0256par0220	...but Kurdish is still not considered official language. Don't be afraid, I'll give you an example. In Spain, five official languages, including Kurdish, Arabic, Turkmence, Syriac, Ashurice, have been accepted in four countries in Switzerland, and live in harmony and peace under the Kurdish regional rule next to us. Science, Industry and Technology Minister Mustafa Varank points to the importance of the issue, saying that we are losing our years-old human resources in almost a brain drain. Science is the way to develop technology, freedom, democracy, and the universal value of human rights. Dear lawmakers, the 21st century will be a century of Kurds in the Middle East, whether we want it or not, and Kurds will use their collective rights, like all peoples. My second call is that at a time when technology and industry developed so much...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0258par0225	Your word, Mr. Gamein, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0256par0226	Yes, I'll put you through. Workers, workers, and workers in the world are normally supposed to work five and six hours a day, but the opposite is that 12 hours a day, going back to 150 years. My call is that the way to travel in a democratic country is the solution to the Kurdish problem, democracy, peace and human rights. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0259par0231	Thank you, Mr. Gamein. In turn, Şanlıurfa MP Nimethullah Erdoğmuşta. Here you go, Mr. Erdoğ. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0260par0236	Mr. President, thank you very much. I salute the General Assembly with respect and respect. The national security budget is the budget of the country's most powerful institution in Turkey. We call it the most powerful institution because it represents power, both as weapons and as manpower, it's now at the top. In another way, it's not just about being strong. We also know that perhaps the most difficult, really the most troubled, responsible institution. Why? Because the most unpleasant encounters of man on earth are conflict, war, and death, and this institution is condemned to the art of dying and killing by art and profession. Another feature of the Turkish Armed Forces, although it seems to be very distant, is that its social aspect is very, very deep and very comprehensive. Why? Because we know that hundreds of thousands of soldiers, hundreds of thousands of soldiers, are being held under arms, and all of them across the country are directly or indirectly dealing with themselves. Mothers are entitled to this institution because of their children and because of their children. Then I'd like to share with the Minister right now a promise from Sadi Shirazi, Hafiz Shirazi, which is far more effective and costless than the S-400. The S-400s are too expensive, so I'm going to say something cheap. He says that the happiness of the two jihads is only two letters: the peaceful treatment of their friends and the peaceful treatment of their enemies. These two letters that each of us today truly, as a matter of essence, may actually be a guarantee. Yes, this institution is decisive, and in many ways in the history of the republic, it has shown its effectiveness and its determination, and it is also known to determine by some blows. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to make a request with the sheriff. The Holy Prophet says: "You quickly bury your bodies. " It is a principle, and there is no definition of faith or identity about funerals. Look, right now, there are families in our country who still can't, can't or can't or can't or can't get their funeral due to the conflict, and the buyers are being subjected to a number of tortures. If the funeral is being taken to the village, the mosque is being shut down, the mosque is being forced to leave, and even the key to the condolence house is being requested by the official officials there; this is the kind of practice we face.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0261par0242	What's it gonna be? We're gonna rock your head?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0260par0243	Even if he is the enemy, and that is the quality of a soldier, when he is fighting his own enemy, when he is fighting his own enemy, when he is dying, there are many examples in history, and many battles and many battles have been witnessed by his own hand. Finally, I would like to complete my words with an example from the Holy Prophet, from the Battle of Badr. In the Battle of Badr, on both sides...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0261par0245	Our soldier is not racist.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0262par0246	Listen, listen, don't scream!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0261par0247	Speech!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0262par0248	Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0261par0249	I'm gonna ask you? Sit the fuck down!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0263par0250	Please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0264par0251	Congressmans, please, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0263par0252	...whoever it is...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0264par0253	Finish your words, Mr. Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0263par0254	I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0265par0255	He's been defending the terrorist for half an hour.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0264par0256	Please, Mr. Altinok.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0263par0257	In the Battle of Badr, the Prophet himself instructed his friends to bury both his martyrs and those who lost their lives from the enemy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0264par0259	Complete your words, Mr. Erdoğ.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0266par0260	No war, just the war on terror, the war on terror.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0263par0261	I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0264par0263	Thank you, Mr. Erdoğ. The last word on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group belongs to Diyarbakır MP Hişyar Özsoy. Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 16 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0267par0268	Thank you. Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I, too, have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the budget of the State Department, the President of the European Union and the Turkish Accreditation Agency. As I begin my speech, I salute our Leyla Trust friend, who was on hunger strike on her 40th day to eliminate this isolation issue. This issue of isolation, the issue of isolation over Mr. Ocalan, friends, is also a state of disgrace in creating unnecessary social, political tensions, as well as legally. And I want to underline that again. Precious friends, Turkey has a similar situation in terms of foreign policy and diplomacy as it deals with serious economic and political instability inside. We've expressed it on different grounds in both the Commission and Parliament, and I will try to connect some of the views of the HDP on foreign policy with a speech by Sulejman Nobleman, who was making a lot of noise here yesterday. Precious friends, these are parts of the world's superpower that determine Turkey's relations with America, Russia, and Europe. You know, it's kind of the size of the magazine of the business, but the Peoplebank case, the extradition of Fetullah Gulen, the matter of Brother Brunson, the S-400, it's been very difficult for Turkish-American relations as important issues. But if you can appreciate the fact that there is a fundamental conflict between America's policies in Syria and Turkey's regional and Syrian policies, at many points, especially in the Kurdish issue, and in the coming period, this tense situation will continue in some way. You know, there are several topics in relations with the European Union. The accession talks are already frozen, and some of the pencils have had budget cuts, you know, through these pre-accession shares from the European Union. There's no progress on the customs union, even though the mutual parties have expressed will, the customs union is bound to some criteria, democracy, human rights. There's not much progress there. I remember the visa liberalisation of Ahmet Davutoglu before June 7th... of course he left politics himself, paying a great price that I don't think he deserves. They offered Turkey visa liberalisation then, one of the biggest promises. Right now, in front of visa liberalisation, there's no progress at all on that subject. There were already six criteria left. One of them is very important: the definition of terror is redefined in European standards. Which doesn't seem to be much of a step forward. Turkey's relations with the European Union are deeply trapped in the refugee issue. Of course, with Mr. Minister Mevlüt Bey and three other ministers -- Internal Affairs, Treasury and Finance Minister -- the Minister of Justice -- I think it was recently held as a five-period, and this Reform Action Group Meeting is about to revitalise relations with the European Union. In fact, first, the first meeting was a bit of a thrill. I wonder if a democratic reform will could arise again in Turkey? But after the first meeting, Europeans have no hope of that at all. Relations with the Council of Europe: You know, Turkey was taken into custody in April 2017, and reported many violations of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. And from that day forward, democracy, as there has been no progress in human rights, has been extraordinary, but an extraordinary state of reality continues, and relations between Turkey and the Council of Europe seem to remain tense for the coming period. Precious friends, relations with Russia have been revealed primarily as a tactical move through these tensions with the West, with Europe and America. Of course, we don't know if this is going to turn into a larger strategic situation in the coming period, but when you look at the issue of closeness with Russia, the developments in the Middle East, in general in Syria and Rojawa, in particular, perhaps we haven't been able to attract the Russians -- with the support of Russia, in the occupation of Afrin, with the support of Afrin. Now, friends, one of the areas where relations with Russia were concentrated was the Astana Process. The Astana Process of Astana has been advertised, of course, many, many, many, many, many, many ads of the Astana Process have been made, the big country, the quarterback country, and so on. But our interpretation is this: The Astana Process was a project to purge the opposition, which was anti-Assad in Syria, over time, and Turkey was given a role in this framework. Earlier, you know, anti-Assad groups from Guta, Dera, from different places, were eventually purged, last to Idlib. A pair of scissors were opened between Turkey and Russia at the time, you know, the operation began, and then the United States and France pulled a line in front of this Idlib operation. There are several reasons: First of all, I don't see this as the most important reason, but a new flood of refugees can make Europe difficult. The intensity of Merkel's accession to the summit in Istanbul is related to this. Secondly, the fact that, perhaps more important, was that America and France did not want to give Assada and Russia an absolute victory before Geneva, but they drew the line. Third, it also means that in these words the Americans say that we, not Russia, Assad and Iran, will end this war. In a sense, we started it, we will finish it. There's a pata situation going on right now. Now, dear friends, Mr. Mevlüt Bey, Mr. Secretary -- and I want to ask you as a question while he's here -- I think in a speech he's made in Doha, we can consider working with ▪Esad, of course, in the case of democratic elections and election. If that's true, friends, the democratic election of Assad is a means of legitimizing this statement, so we can evaluate working with Assad. We can consider working again with Assad, called the murderer of 500,000 people! What's this all about? Let's be clear, let's call it what it is. Earlier, you know, Turkey had a two-headed policy: Assad would leave and another regime would be established that Turkey could work closer. But when the matter of Assad's departure went to hell, Turkey singled out its priorities in Syria: Assad will remain, if necessary, and we will work with Assad. But this time, we will reassemble all the forces we support against Assad, and this time, reposition them to prevent Kurdish gains in Syria. That's the story; we've seen it in Afrin, we've seen it in other areas. Now, what are they trying to do by getting between Kobani and Jazeera, maybe opening it up a little bit like this -- those cantons combined -- to open up that distance? Just so you know, in the 1960s, the Arab Belt policy of Assad, the father, put the Arab population inside the Kurdish population, dismantling those regions, that geographical continuity. The Justice and Development Party's Government is now the current maintainer and maintainer of the Arab Belt policy of Assad, the father, 60 years later. Let's just write it down. What happened in Afrin? Around 200,000 people, close to him, more than ten -- the numbers are changing, but hundreds of thousands of people have been displaced. Other people came to their dumps, they're trying to settle, there's a population engineering policy. Talan, the looter is now a tabloid. The last issue was until the olive theft, when the Minister of Agriculture came out, and we were bringing those olives. Dear friends, I'm trying to collect. Our basic argument, dear friends: there's a new Middle East, it's being built, it's very complicated, it's very difficult. 1 million people have died in Iraq so far, 400-500,000 people have died in Syria, many Muslims. Libya is shattered, you've seen the situation in Egypt, they tried to reverse the situation with a blow, but instability is everywhere. The Gulf countries are scattered, in Yemen, in Bahrain, the entire Middle East geography is covered in blood. Of course, in a situation like this, all actors are struggling to get a new position. The basis of Turkey's foreign policy that we see is the most important issue for reposition in this situation in the Middle East, what it considers a beka problem is that the Kurds in Syria get into an autonomous or federal region, and it takes the Kurdish issue to a different level. Dear friends, our crisis in the Middle East is simply that the Sunnis kill the Shiites, the Kurds kill the Turks, the Turks kill the Kurds or the Israelis kill the Palestinians... it's not that simple. Let's face it, all the ideology of the 20th century has collapsed. In addition to political Islamism, I would say that all projects that Baas was trying to do, or Kemalism trying to do, have now collapsed in the Middle East. I mean, friends, there's no political or social model for these various peoples, cultures, languages of the Middle East that can live together, no one can produce it. I'm finally going to bring it in and connect it to things that can be done in terms of foreign policy. Now in Syria, it's like -- I'm so sorry -- there's a piece of carrion for using this expression -- 500,000 people are dead, everybody's holding it from one side, trying to rip it apart. In this, Suud, Iran is in this, including Israel -- I'm passing America, Russia -- I'm talking about countries in the region -- Turkey is involved in a number of agendas through the national interests of everyone -- but in Syria there are people who have reached ten million that we don't know so far -- people who have migrated, scattered, unresolved homes, and in countries where they've gone, there's a lot of time when they've been exposed to a lot of racism, including Turkey. On the other hand, we can't even count the dead anymore, we're in a situation like this, and Turkey has a bad record, Mr. Secretary. Turkey has failed to give a good test on this issue. If there was so much blood, this region could do much more constructive things as a regional force of this region. I'll tie him up in a minute, see what he can do. Dear friends, Mr. Süleyman was here yesterday, roaring again. I'm not gonna pick on him because he's not here. I'm not gonna say that. I think the last person I'm going to give a reference to in this House would be Süleyman Noble, but I'm going to give him a reference. He was right on time, he gave a very good speech, but he did it in 2012. When discussing Turkey's fundamental issues, he said: "The most important issue of Turkey's issues is the Kurdish problem. " Süleyman Soylu says so. It is not possible to make a new constitution without resolving the Kurdish issue because many issues will come from citizenship definition to language definition. So it is impossible for Turkey to build a new constitution without compromise on the solution to the Kurdish problem. The new constitution would be a disappointment of the 21st century if the Kurdish issue were done without being solved or pretended to be solved. You have to make a decision. The Kurdish problem is a large rock standing in front of us in a narrow passage, and it is not possible to get out of this gate without removing this rock. Finally -- this has just been debated, discussed, friends, because our friend has spoken three Kurdish words -- there have been tensions here again -- and then Mr. Süleyman himself said that he believed that he needed to be educated in Kurdish, that he couldn't just convince his father. Now, what am I saying this for? Five, six years ago, on the Kurdish issue of social, political psychology, I think what we're getting at is that yesterday, Mr. Sulejman... The biggest issue in Turkey is denial, if you ask me. I'm not talking about denying the Kurds, the Armenians, other people, self-denial... This is a very serious matter. That's what I'm saying about the Justice and Development Party. In 2013-2015, you signed up for the best job in this country, took a risk. What we're asking you, what we're asking, is not to deny that time, it's a precious time. Maybe things will change in the future, it'll be a matter of peace somehow. For him, the spirit of that time must be completely preserved. Dear friends, time is short, I'm running out of time, Mr. President. In Turkey -- in an analogy -- the Sultan Abdulhamit period is closed before the opening. There are dozens of Enver and Talat Pashas, personally, walking around. I think they'll make the Justice and Development Party pay for this.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0268par0290	Complete it, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0267par0291	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0268par0292	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0267par0293	My dear friends, you can't really be quarterbacks in the Middle East if you're doing this much national rhetorical, nationalist rhetoric in monotheism, you can't even collect the ball that's on the crown. Because being a quarterback means setting up order in the Middle East. When I just told the general situation of the Middle East, I'm telling all groups, what kind of order does Turkey have for the Middle East that claims to be a regional force? What kind of order does it predict? Can he or she not recommend a model where different peoples, different societies, languages, cultures, can live together without killing each other or slaughtering each other? I mean, I've been listening to this for 40 years... until the last terrorist died and so on. That's not the point. Turkey has a Kurdish issue, a regionalized, globalized issue in the Middle East. How will you resolve this issue? Your answer says that it is your greatest contribution to the establishment of a new order in the Middle East, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0268par0296	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy. Dear MPs, the talks on behalf of the HDP Group are complete. I'm going to ask all the members of the group, I'm going to promise, but first I'm going to meet the demands of the other MPs according to 60. I've made a few statements, and maybe there were lawmakers who weren't present at the General Assembly at the time. I'm giving a letter from each party to a member of parliament for a minute at this time. I'm also referring to the order of entry into the system when I'm setting the names that are going to be spoken for. According to this order, I will now read their names and promise the MPs. Mr. Yilmaz of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0269par0304	Mr. President, here at the National Assembly's bench, I regret the fact that the Kurd's identity, the Kurd's name, is spoken for, and is spoken out of other languages without knowing what he said. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0268par0306	Mr. Erel of the Good Party Group...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0270par0308	My question to our Minister of National Defense: I know that buildings have been built for the Black Aviation School in Isparta, but they haven't been moved up until now. Correct me if I'm wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0271par0309	She moved out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0270par0310	So I'm going to change my question another way: there's a military air base in Iconia, and it needs to have a backup. In Aksaray, we have an airport with 75 per cent complete, but after that, it's still intact. Can this airport go on military and civilian flights by handing it over to Air Force Command? On behalf of the Aksarays, I demand that this be investigated. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0312	Mr. Fikret Hawk, I don't think he's in the living room. Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0273par0314	No, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0315	And no Mr. Nicemansur. Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0274par0317	We're 11. When we arrived at 00, there was no one there, President. When I arrived, there was no one in the House.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0318	Mr. Gürer, you're probably the highest public speaking, taunting and slurring average, but you're still insisting, but you need to get into the system, and you need to get in the line, you need to be in the system on time, there's nothing to do. Mr. Erkan Aydın, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0275par0321	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I ask the Foreign Minister: In the Eastern Mediterranean and Aegean, efforts continue to expand the waters of Greece. During the period of the government of Greece, Recep Tayyip Erdogan and AKP, the Aegean Sea occupied the islands under our noses, expanding its territory and raising its territorial waters to 12 miles. In addition to the six-mile territorial waters of its own sovereign islands, Greece added 18 Turkish islands and six-mile territorial waters on the 1 Turkish reef to its sovereignty and thus became 12 miles. Do you take it that way? What about Turkey's policy on this period? We'd appreciate it if they explained it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0323	Mr. Bagpipe...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0276par0325	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Minister of National Education: Although their professions are teachers, the number of teachers who are non-employees is increasing day by day. For five years, ten years, even fifteen years, it has been announced that he has been a paid teacher. In fact, they also announced that they established the Association of Paid Teachers in order to search for their rights. These teachers are required to be put on staff and restored to their rights as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0328	Mr. Tamar, from the AK PARTY Group... No. If not, Mr. Esgin of the AK PARTY Group again... Mr. Sagittarius...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0277par0331	Let the ruling MPs go and talk to the ministers, and those rights will be ours.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0278par0332	Mr. Sancar, at least be democratic.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0333	If you have an objection, you may convey it, but I mean, please be democratic. Don't say it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0278par0334	So we've been waiting since 11 a.m.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0335	Now, Mr. Koksal, I showed you the lists, and it upset me that you had to make such a statement because I told you the method, and I showed you the sequences.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0278par0336	But we've been waiting since 11 a.m.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0337	Four people keep those lists here, all in order. If you have any objections, please bring them to me in writing, and I will present them to you in writing, and I beg you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sagittarius.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0279par0339	Mr. President, if you'd like, I can give my say to Mr. Fethi.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0272par0340	Please, speak for yourself, Mr. Yayman.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0279par0342	Thank you, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I respectfully salute you all. President Turgut Özal said the 21st century would be Turkey's century. At the point where we come from twenty-five years later, Turkey is really one of the most growing, developing and important centers in the world, and therefore, today, Turkey is showing once again that it is at the center of the world in terms of political specific weight, rather than arithmetic growth. On this occasion, the Department of Industry and Technology, which has built the development of the growing, developing Turkey, and the foreign ministry, which has led its politics to the foreign ministry, the local and national military industry... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wish you the best of the budget of our national Defense Ministry, which inspires fear of the enemy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0280par0347	Thank you. And now I'm going to promise Mr. Erkan Başfa, president of Turkey's Labour Party from political parties without a group, for three minutes. Here you go, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0281par0351	Thank you. Dear friends, of course there are many things to discuss, but we don't have as much time as you do, unfortunately we're short on time. So we need to focus on one of these things, preferably. I think it's best for us to give our party's views on this issue to our country's workers, our people who are watching us, on the occasion of the anniversary of the 17-25 December process that all groups are talking about today. Now, we've been arguing here for a long time. Our AKP's friends are always saying that they consider December 17th-25th as an age, and that after December 17th-25th, they're implementing what this criminal organization is doing against their own power. Let me be clear, this may be true, my friends. So this public-hating gang could have done this during December 17th-25th, because it was known to do all sorts of misdemeanor, including the 17th-25th December. This is something that if you put the necessary evidence in front of us, of course, we won't object, because we know it, and because we know it, but we also have serious concerns about the fact that the scum that appeared during December 17th-25th could be real, that this nation, the workers of this country, the poor people's money, is being transferred into someone's pocket. And there are our reasons for that. What's the right reason? Dear friends, we're talking about a criminal organization that acquired its political identity in the 1960s in anti-communism organizations, opened up by the fascist junta on September 12th and accelerated its organisation after 12 September, but after 2002 it reached the peak of its political history. So, they committed crimes after December 17-25, of course, and they committed acts of public enemy, but of course -- we need to remind you -- in your time as partners, in the time you walked together, the actions that they did, in the same way, were public enemy, enemy of labor, enemy of the country. This reactionary and imperialist organization was walking in the same direction as when it was your partner, and unfortunately, you were looking out for them. The question, my dear friends, is that they committed crimes after December 17th-25th, but on December 16th, they wanted crime, they committed crimes in 2010, they blamed them in 2005, and you were a party to them. If you don't plead guilty to this crime, if you don't admit it, I'm afraid what you're saying about it today is not believable.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0282par0358	Go ahead, Mr. Head.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0281par0359	Thank you. I wasn't here yesterday. I couldn't ask the nobleman, but... For example, dear friends, trustees are appointed, elected mayors are suspended. There's a reason that says that the mayor of Istanbul has no relationship with the terrorist organization? Didn't Ankara Metropolitan Mayor have one? I'm asking and waiting for an answer. How much did the companies that were known to own this terrorist organization, which was closed today, when you were running these municipalities, how much money did they make from these tenders, did they or did they not use that money in public enemy activities? So, my friends, I end my words with the words of Recep Tayyip Erdogan so often said: "Do not make fools of the nation. You walked together, you committed crimes together, you must answer together.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0283par0364	Thank you, Mr. Chief. Now, if they have any demands, I'll make a promise to the members of the group, respectively. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0284par0368	Mr. President, there's been an argument in Parliament over the past two days. When I used the word curdistan, a speaker on the stand, some of the groups rightly reacted, I believe, including the Justice and Development Party Group. However, I got up today, and I got a list of parties from the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office's page, which so far has been submitted to the Supreme Court's Attorney's Office. 13/12/2018, today's updated page. I read the 54th party: Turkey's Kurdistan Democratic Party. I'm reading the 64th edition of the Kurdistan Freedom Party. Abbreviated is Kurdish: Partiya Azadiya Kurdistane. In the 73rd place is the Kurdistan Socialist Party, abbreviated to Kurdish. The Constitution has its 14th Article. Article 14 of the Constitution states that neither rights or freedoms in the constitution can be used in the form of activities aimed at disrupting the undivisable integrity of the state with its country and nation and eliminating the democratic and secular republic based on human rights. It's also a great humility to have three ministers here with no doubts about their sensitivity and no secret agendas. And then there's the 302nd article of the Turkish Penal Code, which says...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0285par0373	Go ahead, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0284par0374	The 302th article of the Turkish Penal Code has the (1)th joke that it is necessary to put all or some of the state land under the rule of a foreign state. I'd like to ask you now... Oh, and by the way, correct your name in the Supreme Court for the 54th-place Turkish Democratic Party of Kurdistan, and remove the word "Kurdistan" here. When the party doesn't respond, it gives it to the Supreme Court. The Constitutional Court has yet to answer that question, but the establishment of the other two parties is now on the page of the Supreme Court. I'd like to ask the ministers from here: What is the region of Turkey's political map called,curdistan? I opened the map of the Republic of Turkey, where I could not find such a region. If so, I ask you to enlighten the Turkish nation in front of the House. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0286par0379	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0287par0381	Mr. President, there are some issues that we've just identified in the recent HDP talks. I'd like to present this to the will of the House and of our nation. Now, in the speech of Şanlıurfa MP Ayşe Dürdar, the first speaker, there has been such an accusation that our state has made Kurdish youth drug addicts, especially in Kurdish geography. Now, this, of course, will be answered by the party, which represents the administration of the state, which is now the first party, but this is a very big slander against the state of the Republic of Turkey, and it also has a huge amount of separatism here. So it's one thing to talk about the problems of drug addicts in Turkey, let's talk about it. What are regional data, let's talk about what distribution is based on cities, but it's a very sad situation to explain, to have someone become dependent on an ethnicity, to do so, in a way like a state policy. I'd like to express that we strongly reject this. In addition, in the speech of Mr. Imam Taşçıer, there have been some issues that we did not desire. This is the stand of the nation, and it is the basis for the talk of Turkish language, the official language of the Turkish nation, mentioned here in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey. You didn't understand what I was talking about, did you?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0288par0385	Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0287par0386	...to take a stand against this grand delegation, which is not acceptable under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, sir. We also strongly deny, again, the death and murder of the Turkish Armed Forces in the speech of Nimethullah Erdoğmuş Bey. The Turkish Armed Forces are our eyes and eyes, our army is everything to us. I don't want to use that expression under the roof of this House, but at this point we can't accept it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0288par0389	Let's give it a minute. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0287par0391	Now, in the speech of Mr. Hishyar Ozsoy, Mr. Hishyar Özsoy, who accuses the state of carrion of the Republic of Turkey of carrion, follows after a carcass. It's a statement we strongly reject; it's slander; we can't accept it. Mr. President, we've all seen how the speaker here went over America and Russia while accusing Turkey of carrion. Here, I would like to express who turned the Middle East into a pool of blood, but because of the current political climate, I would also like to not mention the name of America, but also to the appreciation of the House and of our nation. It is the empirical empirical who shed blood on this geography. At this point, no one can speak to the state of the Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0288par0394	Put him through, please, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0287par0395	I'll put you through, I'll put you through. In addition, in what I've expressed since then -- sir, it's your discretion, but it's our request -- in accordance with the 161th and 4th verses of the Civil Code, sir, at this point, we ask for the National Movement Party to process the MPs I've counted, because there is an insult to constitutional order, an insult to the institutions of Turkey, the state of Turkey, established under constitutional order. Against the state forces, we've been told insults against our people and words that might even encourage the people to rise up against them. These are not acceptable, we demand proper processing, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0289par0399	Thank you, Mr. Nightingale. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0290par0402	Mr. President, of course, there's no way to reassess every single conversation in order to finish the negotiations today, but I'd just like to point out a few other things over the last one. In the last speech, the context of the speech is that Syria must not be seen as a carcass.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0291par0404	It's in the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0290par0405	This is how Turkey sees it. On the contrary, it is a neighbouring country, and it is a emphasis on what a friendly, peaceful approach to a neighbouring country should be, what foreign policy should be. The fact that other countries don't count is completely out of expectation of those states, and the priority is how the neighbors approach them. Our view of the Syrian war has been evident from the beginning. We never find the custody war right, and in this geography, Mr. President, when the millennium debate was held in the early 2000s, security and intelligence units were very accurate and were able to read the Middle East, and in the Middle East there were plans to take steps in this direction by reading the risks and threats of changing maps if regimes do not become democratic. What happened here in the Balkans immediately in Yugoslavia, what happened in the Caucasus, what happened in the Middle East, what happened in the Arab Spring process, what happened in the Middle East, what happened in the Middle East, what happened in the Middle East, what happened in the Middle East, what had happened in the Middle East, what had happened in the Middle East, what had happened in the Middle East, what had happened in the Middle East, what had happened, what had happened, and what had happened in the future, and what had happened in this country was a great evil. It is not the demands of Bosniaks or Croats that cause Yugoslavia to be torn apart, but the insistence of Serbs. If you set a security policy regardless of the sociological truth of the countries next to you, you'll miscalculate. There is no Iraqi language, my friends. We won't deny a thousand years of history because someone drew maps with a ruler. There is no such language, my friends. Syria has a majority of Arab and Arabic languages.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0292par0408	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0290par0409	Now, if we don't think it's justified that only Arabic is being used in Syria as the majority Arab, only Arabic is being legitimized, Turkishmen, Kurdish languages are being denied, we have to defend it for all geography. The Iraqi Parliament -- see, I'm not talking about Kurdish federal administration -- is spoken in Turkmence in the Parliament of Iraq's central administration in Baghdad. I'm ashamed to give an example of Iraq. Iraq was ruled by the buffalo until very recently, dear friends, and then led by the Baas regime. Fifteen or twenty years ago, it was invaded and entered a new design. Now, I said I was embarrassed when I went on the stand and gave a good example of the speakers from the Iraqi Parliament speaking. It was only recently that this country was able to solve the problem. Now, discussing language like that is a great evil to this country. We never see this as a matter of polymics between parties.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0292par0412	Complete it, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0290par0413	On the contrary, on the contrary, we feel that we should look beyond the parties, as part of all of our shared sufferings and shared desire for the future, and that we should look for the solution. Turkey's foreign policy is currently locked up because it can't overcome old fears about the problem. Regional behavior and relations with Europe also pay the price for the unresolved problem. Adeta, the state has become a hostage in that sense. Smart foreign policy, smart politics, is designed to face problems, solve them, take them out of the hands of someone else and turn the power of solution into a new energy. Look, let's talk about these problems, and let's solve these problems together, by looking at common symbols and values, by looking at sensitivities. On the contrary, politics is growing. Mr. President, we just received word that the House has had another 17 hearings.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0293par0418	Tie him up now, Mr. Bilgen. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0290par0420	Finally, Mr. President. One belongs to Mr. Baykal, the other 16 belongs to our party; it belongs to Mr. Buldan, it belongs to me, it belongs to our friends. If you show me one example in the world's conflicted societies, by blocking democracy, by blocking politics, and also by providing security, I'm going to quit politics, my friends. But there are dozens of other examples. If you pave the way for democracy, if you open the way for freedom, on the contrary, the ground of conflict will be cut off, dear friends. Look, there have just been warnings from here, so let me finish with a warning: Don't be wicked, don't be wicked. He says, "Don't go down that road." If we can't achieve legal improvements, political culture and democratisation that will eliminate violence, cause of conflict, then there will be no choice but conflict and slaughter. It's obvious who this will benefit and make us all lose. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0294par0425	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0295par0426	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0294par0427	Let the line pass, and then I'll promise you again, Mr. Nightingale. Now, Mr. Free Private, do you have any requests?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0296par0429	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0294par0430	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0296par0432	Mr. President, first of all, we're following Mr. Sergeant's statement on two matters. After seven years, they have reached a point we have been talking about for years, where they can be contacted by Assad, where they can be interviewed by Assad. The problem was that after nearly 500,000 people lost their lives, more than five million refugees -- most of them in Turkey -- were flung around the world and snatched from their homeland, the Aylan babies lost their lives in cold water and hit our shores. When we made these warnings, we were almost accused of treason, but the point is that the Republican People's Party is saying how wrong it is to abandon the important line in foreign policy and its hair. I'd like to emphasize how important this is at the point of not getting involved in the internal affairs of its neighbours, respecting territorial integrity and not accepting non-governmental elements, each one of which has been abandoned by the Justice and Development Party, and what a disaster it has brought to both Syria and the region and our country. The point is, we were right, we were very happy. Instead of the point, damn it, we were right again. The AKP was wrong again, maybe deceived again, but there was a lot of blood, a lot of pain. It's the point. Secondly, we received the good news from Mr. Sergeyoğlu that he had promised to work on the matter in Argentina, where he was considering the extradition of Trump.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0297par0436	Go ahead, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0296par0437	Now, the Justice and Development Party is still looking at a disaster in terms of global peace and global gains within its own country -- in terms of what it says about our country -- and in terms of you -- and in terms of what it has used to say about our country -- and in terms of you -- has promised to not give you a weapon in the last November 2017, in which Trump promised to give you a gun from his own capital, to all those who have insulted the people in Turkey's internal affairs, and now you say, "Woe to me, if you are still going to take the word of Trump (Thomp), which is a very dangerous line in the entire world.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0297par0439	Complete, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0296par0440	My final statement, Mr. President, today is that a person who has turned his pen into a weapon, who is close to power, who writes for power, who sometimes swears at its place, who points at it -- let's call it a pencilsmith again -- has turned it into a threat -- will give them the very names of Ahmet Hakan, Fatih Altaylı, Ertuğul Özkok, and they will all wonder, one by one by one. When they were thrown into prison, not one person could go or go in front of the prison. He used expressions like that. We expect the ruling party to respond to this, but since it's not coming, let's just say that these three names in the process are very critical of the Republican People's Party. Sometimes they praise the ruling party too much, and sometimes they tell the truth about us, but we care about the way these three names write, criticize, praise. Whatever these three names or opinions you have, it's a very dangerous point if you continue to address journalists, columnists, like this, with your pencil players, threaten them, and then shut up.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0297par0442	Yes, finally, complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0296par0443	I'm ending it, Mr. President. If the columnist doesn't write, if the opposition MP doesn't speak, if the cartoonists don't freely spread their critical lines on their corners, if the leaders are too afraid to imitate, the real challenge is there. Guys, you're trying to silence the author, the sketch artist, us, the main opposition leader, the union guy, their moms, everybody on Saturday, what if they shut up? If they talk, there's democracy, there's nothing else, but what if we all do as you say, and you do it and you shut them up? Then think about what you're going to do to us, to all of us, and what you're going to do to our future. We can criticize them all they want, we can ask them, we can tell them, we can go in front of the prison when they're locked up, we can go in front of the place they wrote when they were threatened. If the day comes, they can't leave. They say we'll risk everything and we'll take care of these journalists. Because we love this country and freedom of opinion more than anything else. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0298par0447	Thank you, Mr. Special. Mr. Turan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0450	Mr. President, it was obvious until Mr. Free, but now it's back to which one to answer to.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0298par0451	You're an experienced Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0452	Thank you. We used to answer from the podium, but now we're gonna have to answer from our position. Mr. President, we also received a pledge after the HDP Group's speech, and you know that seven speakers spoke on behalf of HDP. They've brought up a few issues in common, and I'd like to answer them, if I may. Look, Mr. President, 81 million we live in this country together. The difference of opinion is one thing, the difference of politics is another, but I think we all have common values. I don't think it's helping anyone, especially the person who used that expression, the kind of statements that would undermine and destroy these common values. For example, seven of the seven speakers, such as "tutsak" (e.g., "rehin"), have come up with an approach in our literature that we will not accept, except in the form of detention. Each of these is a non-responsive approach to counterterrorism. That's why I don't think this language is helping them either. See, in Europe -- there is always an example -- a decision came up in the ECHM under the name "Batasuna" (Batasuna). The most important issue in this decision was the fact that Batasuna executives did not condemn violence, that a single party was shut down. Look, Mr. President, democratic freedom of expression is the crown of our heads, but since you don't condemn violence, even in the referenced Europe, we have a question of closing down a party because you can't distance yourself, but beside him, a understanding that tells every day to the army of this state, to the soldier, to himself, to the uniter structure, to all sorts of things. I believe that the next time our friends look in the mirror and add a more reasonable language to this country's politics, to its Parliament, its own constituency, and its own party.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0300par0460	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0461	Mr. President, in the speech of the HDP's seven deputies, I believe that without reviewing the budget, even many of them, we know where they're being handed over from, we insist that the budget of the palace...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0301par0462	That's a shame, that's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0302par0463	Everyone has a will.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0464	Didn't you?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0303par0465	Shame on you; don't read intent!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0466	Didn't you?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0303par0467	Don't read it!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0304par0468	Mr. Turan, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0469	Okay. Mr. President, once again, all the speakers have insisted on not giving concrete data on the budget. Look, this budget is a budget that makes it very clear that there is a public budget -- once the largest pen is divided into education, the second one is divided into health care, the third one into social benefits, and the third one goes on with the same pens.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0305par0471	That's what you think.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0472	This budget is the public budget, Mr. President. Besides, we're making the 17th budget, and there's no such example in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0305par0473	That's what you think.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0474	If it's this bad a budget, if it's this far away from the public, if it's the budget of a fraction that they claim to be, how incompetent are they that they've been giving us access to budgets for 17 years? If we're bad, you do the budget.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0306par0476	Ask the YSK, the YSK.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0307par0477	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0478	See, there's a price of one-and-a-half percent in benefits alone, 2002. Today it has reached 6.5 percent, over 62 billion. Even this is an approach that in itself destroys all speakers' claims about the budget. Mr. President, I'd like to point out that the COBI support in the 4,000s exceeds the 300,000s. There's a lot of other approaches like this. If they say good, maybe we'll see our wrongs, but if they go up and say all the wrong things, I think it's an approach that prevents the surrender of a righteous cause, this time it's an approach that eliminates the right claims.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0308par0480	You have the right approach.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0481	Are you the lawyer of the HDP? You never stopped.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0309par0482	Mr. Turan, please do not engage in personal conversations.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0483	Mr. President, I'm responding to HDP, CHP is insisting on responding. Could you please warn our friends?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0309par0484	Mr. Turan, you know it's not right to have a conversation with people.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0310par0485	But it looks like you need a lawyer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0486	Mr. President, I should have answered from the podium, but no hard feelings, I'm going to make a statement. It's as if we enjoy every deputy who goes to prison, every person in every view...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0309par0488	Tie him up now, Mr. Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0490	We're just getting started, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0309par0491	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0492	Every party answered, asked questions.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0309par0493	I'll give you two more minutes, one more extension, extra.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0494	Thank you. Mr. President, in other words, every seven speakers have accused our party, our group, due to the arrest of Leyla Trust Deputy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0311par0496	Yeah, but you won't let me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0497	Just be patient for two minutes, please, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0312par0498	Mr. Turan, don't answer every tease, please continue.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0499	It occurred to you, Mr. President, that you're from the HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0312par0500	You guys go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0501	Look, Leyla Trust or anyone else, I wish no one had committed a crime, no one had ever faced judgment, prison. But he insisted on going to prison for freedom of opinion, and the AK PARTY didn't make a sound. We reject his approach. Look, I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, what freedom of opinion do we call our people, and let everyone know that if there is a crack in Rojava, there will be a break in the Kurdistan at four parties. Two: I don't know whether Turkey is aware or not, Turkey is playing with fire. Three: from Europe, from northern Cuba, from Rojova. There's a question of judgment on that. It's not my job, the judge has made these allegations, he's made a decision about it. Beyond that, he started a hunger strike against Ocalan. I've told you about Batasuna, when there are parties in Europe that have been shut down because they don't condemn terrorism, there are people who are on hunger strike using the conditions of the terrorist leader in prison as an excuse. I think it's against rights to accuse our party of democracy as opposed to freedom of expression. Mr. President, we've been the ones in this country to remove the obstacles to democracy for 16 years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0313par0505	One minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0299par0507	We're the ones expanding the freedom of expression. We know that many journalists are in prison not because of freedom of expression, but because of other allegations. We also know that in the old years, there were many more thinkers, politicians, writers, in prison. So I'm stressing that the AK PARTY is a democracy party, the AK PARTY is a party of freedom of opinion, the AK PARTY is a party of freedom of the press, but the AK PARTY is the party that advocates 81 million of its brothers, along with the unitary structure. I think we all need a healthier language, communication, a language that understands each other. Thank you again, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0313par0510	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0314par0511	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0315par0512	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0313par0513	I'll give you my word too, Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0316par0516	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we've done our evaluations, but we need to make a brief assessment. In particular, after the testimony of Vice President of the HDP Group, Mr. Bilgen, we believe that the Parliament's reports -- which are particularly important, very valuable and sacred, will read the memory of the future generations over this, over these articles -- have a matter that we need to put on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party in that regard. Now, when you give examples, it's not divided by Bosniaks and Croats, it's started by the Serbs. If there's a reference to the Turkish nation or Turkey when it's being evaluated, especially if it's becoming a Turkish nation, we'll never, ever accept that we're blaming the state of Turkey and the Turkish nation in this sense, sir, with a structure that has committed a vicious and despicable massacre, a genocide that has never stopped doing this in terms of that period.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0317par0521	Go ahead and tie him up, Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0316par0522	Besides, there is no lrakça (Irakka) language, there is no Suriyece (Suriyece) language. If the borders were drawn by a ruler, would we not say them? Such an expression was used. If what they're talking about is referring to Turkish, they know what Turkish is, and they know it very well. Trying to show the Turkish language of this ancient civilization, the language of Turkish civilization, is clearly an insult to this nation, sir. So I'd like to stress that we strongly reject it. The last speaker's statements on the matter of GERMINATION are insulting, we insist, and we demand action, sir. This will come out when the transcripts are seen. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0318par0525	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0319par0528	Mr. President, we, of course, don't see this as a debate platform, so we remind each and every time. We're not convinced of each other; maybe we're supposed to be getting to know each other, trying to understand exactly what we mean. I think that the fact that politics fulfills that responsibility will strengthen understanding, meeting, and co-existence amongst the different parts of society. Otherwise, if we refuse to understand each other, if we resist here, the tension here will have much more severe, much more traumatic consequences on the street. My analogy for Yugoslavia, which is completely different from the other majority of the majority of society, is that I don't specifically use the term "minority" to cause a new misunderstanding.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0320par0530	Use another analogy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0319par0531	As far as those who are different from the majority have the opportunity to live up to their demands, differences, languages, cultures, territorial integrity is provided there. This is a very clear attitude. The management model is something else, there are different management models in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0321par0534	Go ahead, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0319par0535	Unitarianism is one thing, but one type is another. As there are those who provide land integrity with federation, there are those who provide autonomous regions, and there are those who strengthen local governments; each country has its own unique state. So when I gave the example of Yugoslavia, the example of Iraq, the example of Syria, the language of the majority, the existence of languages, identities, cultures outside the culture of the majority. As long as you maintain their presence, you prevent conflict, you strengthen life together. Now, one of these examples, I believe, is that it must be reminded of Spain, especially because of Batasuna. I think the first group only remembers Batasuna's decision when they said "AGHM decision." Since then, I say, "Do according to the decisions made by the ECHR, we are sentenced to a lot of compensation in the ECHR, so make sure that the entire country pays for the wrongs made by the people." But you don't answer, you remind Batasuna of the Decision.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0322par0540	Tie him up, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0319par0541	You know only one decision, Batasuna's decision, and you know it wrong, dear friends. Here, if we could discuss the rights of the Spanish Constitution, if we could discuss them, we wouldn't have any of those arguments. In particular, legal legislation regarding Layla Güven is very clear. Layla is a Trust MP. How MPs will be tried and the matter of detention is very clear. I don't know where the texts come from, I don't think it's polite, it's elegant. I'm guessing what's meant, what's implied, but it's coming from the computers of the consultants from the Public Relations Building right back there, if you're wondering. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0323par0545	Mr. Ozsoy, I give you my word on your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0324par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're having a very serious conversation, and I felt I had to make a statement. I mean, there's a demand to be processed or something. Now, what we call a linguine means either a literary meaning, or it means a metaphorical meaning. I used a metaphor, a metaphor, a metaphor. Language speakers know what that means. I mean, everyone has their own...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0325par0551	You can't disrespect the metaphor.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0324par0552	Don't be disrespectful.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0325par0553	You're disrespectful.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0554	Let's hear it, folks, please. Go ahead, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0327par0556	I mean, all the parties here have been running nationalism for a week, and they're all going back and forth, sharing leverage over the HDP, or going to the elections...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0557	Explain your opinion, Mr. Ozoy. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0328par0559	Yeah, you're the one who called me a fucking mess. Expect respect as well as respect.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0329par0560	Now, I've been in this House for three and a half years, and I've never insulted anyone. Humiliation is an ugly thing. Through Syria...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0562	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0329par0563	In Syria, I used a metaphor for all those deaths, these massacres, because of this violence, and by apologizing, in the middle, and in their national interest, everyone is trying to draw it from one side to the other. The people of Syria are losing it. I mean, other than that, I'm saying it's meant to mean something or something else. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0565	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0330par0566	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0567	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0330par0569	Mr. President, it's too short...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0570	Very short, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0330par0571	I've only just spoken for two minutes, and I'll say this very briefly: Mr. Chairman of Justice and Development held the tone in his speech today, and he said something like this, and there's still a disrespectful way of speaking to our President, and I don't want to call him that, or he'll have to call him that, but he says that during the travel events, the People of the CHP went to Cabam, and they found beer bottles in the Bezmialem Mosque. In the investigation, two religious officials at the mosque said that this was not true, that there was no drinking at the mosque; they were exiled, and they spoke the truth. He also said on a Tuesday that people wearing leather pants on top of them attacked our headscarf, both referring to mosque images. The reporters who said they saw the footage apologized, said there was no such image...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0574	Please finish, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0330par0575	I'm finishing. The journalists who said they were watching the footage apologized, admitted it wasn't real, made a public apology to the public; after 285 Fridays, there's no evidence of the Bezmialem Mosque, but through an election that's about to happen, they're going through old books like the bankrupt tradesman, and they're taking refuge in old lies.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0578	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Yes, Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0331par0581	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0582	Let's turn on your microphone, for the record, let's hear it, let's hear it, just a minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0331par0585	Mr. President, it's supposed to be less time-consuming, but as we can see, it's going to a much different place. I think it's necessary to make different claims on each tour. He wrote it there, he said this here, come on, this is not the right approach; but let me tell you, Mr. President: look, if travel acts are to be opened, the whole world knows who's doing what, who's going to Dikmen, when we're going out to Ankara Dikmen, what accusations we're facing, especially our own families, what attacks we're facing. So I say we don't open these, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0588	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Turan. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0332par0591	What's that? What's that?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0593	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please be quiet. The nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0333par0595	Mr. President, there's a request for word, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0596	Mr. Turan, the MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0334par0597	Of course, seven people are dead! Seven young people have died! 14-year-old boy is dead!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0598	I'll meet your request, but all the questions will continue later. [[Noises]] Yes, dear MPs, please be quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0335par0601	Remember the ones you beat to death!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0326par0602	The Minister had a request to make a statement. I'll give you two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0336par0605	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, then we'll answer some of our friends' questions in the QA section, but our Lord Erkan Aydın has a question about islands in the Aegean. Actually, it's a very sensitive subject. We also evaluate these with political parties, and we pass information on to the heads of political parties who want information, and to the group's vice presidents. Yes, with the 1923 Lausanne and the 1947 Paris Peace Accord, I'm afraid these islands have not been identified. Thus, there has always been a tension between Turkey and Greece. I'd like to say that there has been no change in the status of these islands since the Kardak crisis about their actual status. I repeat: Cardiac crisis, 1995. So it is not right to make such an accusation about the EC PARTY. There's a very valuable vice president at your party, Mr. Ünal, who controls these matters. If you need further information, the Ministry will inform your entire party, your group. After the Kardak crisis, it has been decided that future talks should be launched during the late Ismail Cem period; I'm talking about 1997. Therefore, if you try to corner the EC PARTY here, you will harm Turkey on this sensitive issue for Turkey. The party, which is the least harmful or harmless, becomes the AK PARTY. What we're going to do today, we're already continuing our talks with our Chief of Staff, our Ministry of Defence and Greece. If there was no change in status from 1997, from Kardak, from this side, then it's clear when it happened, in whose time it was in the past, in what period of power, which party was in power, but I'm not here to blame a party, to blame the past.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0337par0610	Complete it, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0336par0611	This is a delicate issue, so we'll continue to consider this matter amongst ourselves. If Congress wants to be briefed in a closed session one day, we'll gladly do so with our friends. On the other hand, I'd like to make a statement about the two things Mr. Free Private, the Deputy Chairman of the CHP Group, said came out of my mouth, and I'll answer the others later. Now, Turkey is not the cause of the crisis in Syria. This is not a war between Turkey and Syria. The Arab Spring is a process that begins with the spring, and it is a regime that begins to kill its own people. Yeah, that's right, so many people died. Suppose Turkey never gave up on Assad. There's no guarantee these people aren't going to die, and he's going to keep killing. I don't know what they've been doing to refugees who have recently returned to the regime's control. That's one. Second: We have never acknowledged what is done by Esad. We have not said, nor will we say. The question we were asked was... that we, despite everything, will go to Geneva to establish a constitutional commission tomorrow, if possible, and a political process will begin. The question we were asked was that when we were preparing Syria for an election, under UN control, we were preparing the country to be democratic, transparent, that everyone could participate, and that it would be a fair election, and we were supporting it. The question I was asked was: "If Assad wins such a choice, will you work with it? I too, after such a choice has been made, everyone -- I spoke English -- reviews the situation. I said, "We will work with Assad. I didn't mean that we would approve of Assad. Again, as for the question you asked about Trump, every time we meet, we remind our clients of the return of ا to Turkey, not just of the 84 people. So far, we've been officially...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0338par0617	Mr. Secretary, complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0336par0619	My last words: we bring up the extradition of 84 people we officially demand at every meeting. In Argentina, again, our President brought it up. Trump said we're doing a study on the extradition of this person, especially the terrorist head. We didn't go out and welcome it and play it out because we've had words like that in the past, we've had experience. But, again, when I was asked a question, what was the latest study on this subject? I told him what happened in this interview to give information. On the other hand, there is a fact that there is an investigation launched by the FBI in about 15 states and a very serious investigation. The FBI began to see its dark face in the United States with the findings they've achieved so far. They said, "We've even started arrests in some places, including New Jersey." Therefore, when such developments occur, we inform the public. We have not made such a statement, we will continue to follow it. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0339par0622	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Nightingale, Deputy Chairman of the National Movement Party Group, had a request. First, I'll tell you what criteria I've evaluated this request, and then I'll share with you my conclusion. There are disciplinary provisions in the Civil Code, but it would not be right for the legal technique to interpret them in a way that alone is just the words there, nor for the mindset of democracy. First of all, Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey defines the attributes of the state, which must be considered. I don't need to recount the state's qualifications. This is a clause that we should consider when we interpret all the provisions of internal law, including the Constitution and the Civil Code. And then, the expressions here, of course, what's done here is talk, and talk is finally an act associated with freedom of expression in human rights, an activity. In this regard, there is also the 26th Amendment of the Constitution, and the scope of that right is clearly established there. But in addition to all of this, we have the 83rd article on freedom and rights of speech in the House, which has received the basic principles of universal law. The members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey cannot be held responsible for their votes and remarks in Parliament's work, their ideas in parliament, and for revealing them. There's no way you'll ever be judged by any of the things you say here, and those words are covered by immunity for the rest of your life. No, we don't ignore them, but we still need to take certain measures when we evaluate them in the face of these provisions of the Civil Code. In this regard, one is the provisions of the Constitutional Court of Turkey; two are the benchmarks of the Supreme Court of Human Rights, including the Supreme Court of Appeals and the Council of Human Rights; three are the evaluations of the European Court of Human Rights. First of all, to determine whether or not you're within the limits of criticism... This criticism is too severe, too harsh, too traumatic, too shocking, but outside the scope of punishment, says the European Court of Human Rights. Second of all, a very important measurement of every word is considered in the context of speech. It says, "In what context are you going to look at it?" I consider it a violation of human rights law if you separate someone and evaluate them on your own and make them subject to punishment. Unfortunately, Turkey has dealt with too many decisions and paid their compensations, convicted by the European Court of Human Rights for such reasons alone. In short, valuable MPs, I don't want to go into any other evaluations. So if we say that democracy exists, and Parliament is the most important place for democracy to seek ideas and solutions, then we have to put aside the criminal provisions of the Civil Code that don't suit us when each opinion is explained, which disturbs us. No, if we say that we will recognize them as the Constitution maintains these qualities, we have to approach the debates here within the framework of freedom of opinion and differences, within the framework of the race of opinion. The answer to any idea will be the opposition, not the penal provisions of the Civil Code. From this point of view, Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0340par0629	Sir, there's an insult here.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0339par0630	I'll finish, Mr. Nightingale.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0341par0631	Why don't you act according to the Civil Code?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0339par0632	You talked, and I gave you a long time of words, and now I'm making a statement, which is my right as Vice President of the House.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0342par0633	Be objective, Mayor, be neutral.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit03spe0339par0634	For all these and other reasons I can add, I have not seen any infractions of the Civil Code in any of the talks here, so I do not see the need to proceed. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0339par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account The commission is in place. It's time for a speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first statement now belongs to Konya MP Abdulatif Sener. Here you go, Mr. Sener. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0343par0058	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have made a commitment to the State Department budget. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I salute your delegation. The foreign policy of Erdogan's governments is not national, it is not Islamic, it is not human; it is against our national interests, it is against Islamic and human values. The following policy has led to a terrible environmental disaster, looting the possessions, lives, honors, honors, and beliefs of tens of millions of Muslims, Christians, and Ezidi (who live in our heart geography), and the process is being prepared for more extensive sectial warfare and spreading to Turkey. What happened in the Middle East and North Africa for eight years is an Arab black winter, not the Arab Spring. Its roots are based on ionist strategies. In the 1980s, these strategies were widely discussed as the Oded Yinon Plan. It is based on the dissolution of Muslim countries that surround Israel into small pieces and Israel becoming a dominant force over these small states. I must point out that I'm against anti-Semitic thinking, that I don't deal with anyone's religion, ethnitism. All men, even animals, plants, and environments are precious to me, and I know that many Jews are against Zionism. The main issue discussed at the 2004 Sea Island G8 Summit was the expanded Middle East and North Africa Initiative (BOP). The goal was to bring democracy and human rights to the principles of the region. This was the second stage on the road to the Arab black winter, and Turkey was declared the democratic co-chair of the Great Middle East Project. Prime Minister Erdogan has repeated at least 30 times that he is the co-chair of the BOP. In the same year, he was awarded the Jewish Courage Award by the American Jewish Congress in the United States, and the 2005 Prize for Courage by the ADL. In the third stage, the Arab black winter exploded. The Arab black winter showed that BOP's aim was not at all peaceful in democracy and human rights, and its method was not, for some reason, the darkest dictatorships in the region. The biggest demonstrations, compared to its population, took place in Bahrain, but were bloodyly suppressed by Suud soldiers with the permission and direction of BOP's bosses. In the beginning, Prime Minister Erdogan, who was BOP's partner in democracy, asked Assad to do democratic reforms, but five years later, men, the most basic feature of democracy in his country, have eliminated the separation, turned to punish and silence his critics and opponents through the judiciary; prisons are filled with politicians, criminals, think offenders, babies and children. This process provides excuses for interfering with external forces. Arab black winter is more the result of external dynamics than internal dynamics. For years, mobile terrorists, raised and organized in Iraqi prisons such as Abu Ghraib during the occupation in Afghanistan, Pakistan, have been transferred to regional countries, especially Syria, Iraq, Libya, Yemen, arms, financed, logistical support, reinforced by military operations of the United States, Israel and Western countries, especially towards Syrian and Libyan state forces. Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Prime Minister Erdogan's governments were on the same side as the United States. Millions of people lost their lives, millions of women were raped, sold in slave markets, millions of children were destroyed, Muslims drowned in the waters of the Mediterranean when trying to save themselves from the evil of Muslims. The soldiers who were burned to death, the children who were beheaded, the images of human beings beating the heart with a single beat, were served to the world, and Islam was ugly in the eyes of the world's humanity. These results are the result of policies supported by the lawmakers of Erdogan's governments. As such, you are the most sinful power in the history of Islam for a thousand and five hundred years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0344par0064	It's a shame. It's a shame. You were the Finance Minister of this government, you were the Finance Minister of this power. You supported the BOP presidency.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0343par0065	Hundreds of thousands of foreign terrorists have entered Syria alone, occupying cities, villages and towns. From the first day on, no demonstrations were peaceful in Dera, or in Shuur, or anywhere else, but were involved in the massacres of armed militants against soldiers, police and civilians. Turkey and the world's public have been engaged in false news with a network of international deformation that has been under way for years. A million people are dead, property, honor has been looted, children destroyed. Five million people have emigrated abroad in Syria of 22 million people, at least eight to 10 million people have been immigrated. Even during the state-controlled period of 20 per cent of Syrian territory, close to 90 per cent of the Syrian population lived in areas dominated by the state. I mean, people were moving from terrorist gangs to either outsources or areas where the government was in control. The killers of millions of innocents who died in the Arab black winter are not imperialist forces. The killers are not Suud, Qatar, co-conspirators of imperialism. The trigger for imperialism is not hundreds of gangs, terrorist organisations, ISIS and Nusra. They are the legitimate states that exist in these countries. They are the carriers of the deformation network of imperialism. In Yemen, 85,000 children starved to death. 12 million people suffer from severe hunger. Who are they, if not the bosses and Suud, who are the ones responsible for this persecution? The last word to be said is that war is a disaster, and peace is a life. For the Muslims of the world, war is the greatest disaster. Where's the funding power to fight the world's allies? The total income of 57 Islamic countries, members of the Islamic Co-operation Organization, is less than that of Japan alone, which is one fifth of the United States. The weapons that Muslim countries use to kill each other are weapons produced and marketed by contractors. Whoever they want to win, they'll hand over a highly advanced weapon to him, and the Muslims will continue to strangle each other. Especially in a common war environment, Muslim countries that cooperate with the imperialist forces are condemned only to enter their orbit, to serve their strategy. Perhaps some of our MPs will make military action to the east of the storm, and you're talking about peace, is now the time for what you say? I think it's time. It is a duty of my country's love to address the most critical subject with courage. Strangely, this government is constantly creating problems in domestic and foreign policy, and then it's trying to solve the problems it's creating, and while dealing with the problems it's creating, it's making heroic noises. That's the inadmissible point. With this action, what we gain must be considered calmly. One: Do we claim the Syrian lands we have seized and expand Turkey's territory? I don't know if that's the intention, but there isn't. From time to time, the government says that we will leave the Syrian territory where we entered, and that we will protect Syria's territorial integrity. Two: Some say the government wants to forget the economic crisis as it enters the election. I don't think that's possible, because that means that Turkey is supporting the AK PARTY in the US elections by allowing it to enter Syria. The third is that we have a terrorist problem caused by the PYD, we need to solve it. Then the point is: Will the United States loosen the operation to the end of the PYD? No, because if that was his intention, he wouldn't have supported it. There's another point. At the time, the government invited Salih Moslim, the co-chairman of the PYD, three times, to Turkey, meet and spread red carpets under it. At one point, Turkey supported the PYD, allowing it to enter through Turkey for support of the PYD. So, if the P.D. wasn't a terrorist organization then, what happened now, or if it was a terrorist organization then, were you okay? Let's put this aside, I think the government should put its strategy on the question: Is the presence of the PYD in Syria or is the presence of the United States more dangerous? No matter what you say is more dangerous, the U.S. needs PYD to stay in Syria.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0345par0073	Go ahead, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0343par0074	Turkey is preventing it from leaving the United States as it squeezes the PYD. Yes, a good prescription for Turkey: peace in the dorm is peace in the world. So, what should we do? One: Turkey must take peaceful policies back to its centre, rebuild peace as a fundamental concept; in the army, in the Security, in the Foreign Office, in an internal culture for peace and quiet; in political parties, intellectuals, media organizations must make peace a fundamental expression; Turkey must be a symbol of peace in the world. Two: Turkey must strive to transform the concept of peace and the strategies reaching peace through the Islamic Co-operation Agency into the basic sensitivity of 57 Islamic countries. Three: Turkey must seek support for peace talks in the eyes of Western countries, and above all, it must expand its way of working with the anti-war NGO, intellectuals and intellectuals in the West. In order for the world to devote its money to arms and war to fighting peace and poverty, it must take an endless effort.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0346par0080	Complete your words, Mr. Sener. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0343par0082	I give you all the respect for the pain of economic crises, of workers, of unemployed, of civil servants, of pensioners, farmers, not of the tradesman, but of a world of arms dealers and arms industry.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0346par0084	Thank you, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0347par0085	Do you agree with what you're saying?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0348par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0346par0087	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0348par0088	Mr. President, are we going to respond to this divine language and shallow approaches later?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0346par0089	Yes, you'll answer later, Mr. Turan. That's our understanding. Thank you. The second word for the CHP Group belongs to Denizli MP Kazim Arslan. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0349par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love and respect. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have been promised to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, which has released the science from its name. The Ministry's budget we're talking about is 7 billion 784 million Turkish liras. I have to say in advance that unless structural reforms are done, it's a fact that this budget will be useless in the same system as long as the ministry is in the same order. This is a budget that will cover the daily needs and staff costs of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. You always say exports are increasing, but you never say imports are increasing. Our exports in 2017 were 157 billion dollars, and you ignore that our imports were $234 billion. You never think about putting in front of you a 77 billion-dollar foreign trade deficit in between. How do we close this gap? Now, again, it's the end of the year 2018, and this year you're ignoring that the foreign trade deficit is going to be $80 billion. So that's not a number to brag about, my dear friends. If we can get exports to a point where we can afford imports, then you've brought Turkey to a point where you can brag, which is definitely not in today's practices. My dear friends, in order to build new factories, build businesses and provide employment, it should allow for a factory to be built in every corner, while unfortunately, as all our factories were sold during this period of power, a new factory was neither established nor opened. There's a picture of Turkey. So there's nothing to brag about. So, friends, unemployment is growing like an avalanche, so don't ignore it. These people are gonna come out tomorrow, they're gonna get us, they're gonna ask you for money, they're gonna ask you for a loan, maybe he's gonna attack you, he's gonna take advantage of you. Don't ignore them, my dear friends. Now, the 2019 budget is not the production budget, it's the consumption budget. 117 billion Turkish liras of this budget will go to interest, my dear friends. In addition, this budget is an interest-coholic budget, again, when really considering this interest situation. Therefore, the payment of 200 billion Turkish liras is at stake. So this budget is a debtor's budget, my dear friends. Instead of increasing exports, it's a budget that will increase imports again because there's no money in the budget for exports, unfortunately there's no support. And it is not for the exporters or the industrialists to be helped. My dear friends, this budget is a dollar-aholic budget. It's a budget that can't really save itself from dollars, it's in debt everywhere, it's in dollars, it's in debt, it's in debt, it's in dollars to pay all the companies in public-private cooperation. If you want to use TLS, you must get rid of this dollar load if you want to increase its value. My dear friends, Mr. Secretary, what we ask of you is to increase production in the industry. You can increase industrial production by lowering the cost. At the price of electricity and natural gas used in the industry, there is no way to produce it today. People are rioting. Hence, an exporter must be saved from such a cost-torn industrialist. This must be pulled down by meeting with the Minister of Energy. Two: Industrialist and exporter will receive 200 billion Turkish liras of VAT return from the state, which is still pending. The government, on the other hand, will have to pay as soon as possible, and the industrialist expects this payment. Also, third: 2 VATs are applied in the textile sector.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0350par0105	Come in, Mr. Arslan, complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0349par0106	8 per cent VAT is applied to the fiber, dye, and compaction of 18 per cent VAT. This creates inequality between operations and textiles, and therefore it must be resolved immediately and reduced to 8 percent of the VAT. Four: We need to improve our local industry. So especially at the point of the development of our industry, which produces intermediary goods, by developing our local industry, we reduce between imports in which areas we produce, at which point the work must be done urgently. Five: Our industry, which borrows and invests in foreign currency, is really miserable, and there is no solution in this budget, and it is necessary to find a solution. Also, sixth: OSBs have empty spaces. Why are these plots empty? In the matter of filling these OSBs with research, it is necessary to work on turning them into industries.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0351par0111	Put him through, please, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0349par0112	I'll put you through, Mr. President. Seven: 12 companies in Denizli have declared a concordato in Turkey, which will follow. What to do about these budgets, how to come up with a solution, how to build these concordatoes, how to save companies, businesses that are on the verge of bankruptcy, we're looking for a solution. New OSBs need to be established. In particular, by creating the infrastructure of the OSBs, there is a need for a study at the industrialisation point of Turkey, as soon as these factories and these businesses are established, because our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said: Every factory is a fortress. Every factory is a fortress. I say you must roll up your sleeves as Minister of Industry to build a castle in every corner of our country, and I say you must do it, as well. I salute you all with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0352par0118	Thank you, Mr. lion. The line is in Tahsin Tarhan. Here you are, Mr. Tarhan. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] You're heavy on this cheer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0353par0123	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2019 of the Ministry of Industry and Technology. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, the world is living in the age of technology; the industry is talking about the 4.0 revolution; each country is trying to produce its own artificial intelligence; the new world order, where robots are involved in all areas of production. While the whole world lays the foundations of the technology 4.0 revolution, we discuss budget drafts in the presence of ministers who don't come from the industry during every budget period. Unfortunately, there's nothing new we can say about the Ministry of Industry and Technology, whose budget we've discussed for nearly $7 billion, because there's nothing in construction for AKP Power. Investment in industry is not as profitable as the concrete economy. Technology is harder to produce than tuition. Therefore, the AKP continues to embody its rulings with malaise. We've been saying this for years: stop investing in concrete, make subcontractors rich. Precious lawmakers are $6 billion from Turkey's RD spending in 2018, and 15 billion from a German car company to RD. If we're going to be national, if we're going to grow, if we're going to care about RD investments as much as these companies, we're going to have to cut in about 15 billion. Mr. Secretary, how are you going to capture technological developments in the world without investing in RD? You put pressure on what you call industrial and trade rooms, but because of the crisis that the citizen felt up to his bones, the overall capacity in the 310 organised industrial region has dropped from 70 percent to 50 percent. More than 2,000 companies went bankrupt, more than 3,500 companies applied for concordato, and businessmen began to commit suicide because of their debts in Anatolia. The shops in the malls that you built are empty. The inflation broke the record for the last 15 years right after the statement. I'd like to ask you: how long will you ignore the crisis? We're going to build key delivery factories, we're going to get industry back on its feet. It's called 125 major privatisations, 62 billion dollars in revenues were made, but there's not a single factory that we can call during the AKP period. Either you sold it or you closed it. You didn't invest a penny in industry and production. Minister, this budget has no science, no technology, no production, no RD, no industry, no exports. You know what? The income pen contains payments on the backs of the minimum wager, the pensioner, the officer, the teacher, the worker's salary, and the manufacturer's taxes. (CHP clapping in rows) In the pen, the cost of your reign is at stake. Unfortunately, a remote Turkey from science, technology, production is the work of the AKP's government, where the groom lives in the vault, enjoys the summer-flying palaces. It should not be forgotten that it is not in the state's nature to disrupt the public's budget while organizing the palace's budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, the industrial budget of 2019 in our country, where the conditions are down, the wheels are down, the factories are left to the rats, is invalid in the public conscience. You're responsible for the industry that comes out of the rota, the government that gets behind the wheel, the economy that doesn't keep the brakes. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0354par0132	Thank you, Mr. Tarhan. Now it's time for Elazığ MP Gürsel Erol. Here you are, Mr. Erol. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0355par0137	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. After the budget of the National Ministry of Defence is discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission, I agree with the wishes that the budget of the Ministry of State, which our members have expressed, be good for our country and our state, and I wish that the budget of our National Ministry of Defence be good for our country and our state, and I would like to give examples of what dangers we are facing today, rather than meeting the budget of the National Ministry of Defence in the field of duty and responsibility. First, I would like to point out that our state has the authority to go to cross-border operations to secure its internal security; if necessary, go to Kandil, go east of Fırat, if necessary, and intervene in any area that it needs, the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey will go and intervene. Because the Armed Forces of the Republic of Turkey are given the authority to intervene; the will is given by the government, the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and the implementation by the Turkish Armed Forces. Naturally, the Turkish Armed Forces have the right to perform cross-border operations against internal security. He also has the right and the right to use drones in the fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0356par0140	Why didn't you clap? Give it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0357par0141	Mr. Sener doesn't think so.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0355par0142	But those heroic stories of our martyrs there should never be made political material when we go to the cross-border operation to ensure our national security because those martyrs are soldiers who have died without blinking for the protection of this country's unitary state structure and for the protection of this homeland. This is not the material issue of domestic politics, and in domestic politics, our martyrs should not be made the material of politics. Dear MPs, our country has two important issues that have recently been a pain in the ass, causing human loss, causing economic losses. First of all, a 34-year process, which began in 1984 with the actions of the PKK terrorist organization, and in the 34-year period of PKK terror organization, all political parties have been in power, carried out party policies, and as a result, we are still in the same place as our logic, understanding and point of fighting terrorism in 1984. Look, in that time, six presidents have changed, 11 Chiefs of General Staff have changed, 12 Prime Minister has changed, 22 Minister of Defense has changed, 25 Interior ministers have changed, and we have spent 1.5 trillion dollars in public budgets, and what we've come to is that, where we are, there is terrorism in Turkey again, at the top priority. On the other hand, one of our second most important terrorist problems is the PKK. Now I want to tell you what I think about the process of the terrorist organization in Turkey. Naturally, the historical process of the PKK's terrorist organisation in Turkey dates back to a 40-year period. But the period between 2002 and 2016, when the terrorist organisation was particularly active and organised within the state. Ergenekon, through the sledgehammer process -- the cosmic chamber operation that emerges in the sun -- and the secret testimony of Şemdin Sakik (Semdin Sak), led the country to 15 July, when the Ataturcu, republican and stateary generals were disbanded from the Turkish Armed Forces and brought to its place of generalists (Applause from its ranks) and the process brought to it. Look, lawmakers, there are three different ways to appoint bureaucrats in state bureaucracy: one, governors; two, ambassadors; three, generals. The decision of the Council of Ministers of Governors and ambassadors is appointed by the President's approval. The decision of the Generals Military Sura is appointed by the President's approval. Now, imagine if July 15th was a coup attempt? Yes, July 15th is a coup attempt by the PKK's terrorist organization. Against whom? July 15th was built against the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, against our state, against our people and against the Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0358par0147	Against democracy...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0355par0148	Yeah, and against democracy. So, who stopped the terrorist organization? The Turkish Armed Forces blocked the terrorist organization in the first place. Imagine that 1.5 per cent of your staff supported the action of the terrorist organization, not 98.5 per cent, official records. However, the 326 generals appointed by political will supported and participated in the terrorist organization of 45 per cent that night. So our National Department of Defense needs to live up to its own bureaucratic structure and traditions, as well as unpoliticized state traditions, state merit and the seriousness of the state. When politics intervenes, there's a new process and new risks, like July 15th. Dear lawmakers, the policies of the National Ministry of Defence should be kept separate from the policies of political parties and transformed into state policy because there are many examples of this in the world. What is it? Many countries around the world have made their policies a state policy based on their own priorities. For example, Japan's cultural policy, Germany's industrial policy, Holland's agricultural policy, many such examples. These are not policies ruled by political will and based on party policies, these are state policy, which means that no matter who is in power, no matter who is in power, these state policies are not to be abandoned and Turkey's national defence policies should be demonstrated by a national stance, not by a political party perspective. Congressmans, I would like to address the AKP Group here, and I would like to address the politicians and lawmakers who come from within you with a state tradition: of course, of course, we all have a responsibility to the political party and the president of the political party that we belong to. But our unconditional and unconditional devotion and obedience must be only to the republic established by Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and to the Republic of Turkey. A commitment based on individuals should never, ever be loyal. Why? Many parties and leaders have come and gone in our political lives. May God have mercy on all of them. They spoke on these platforms. Look, in this country in the past, Mr. Süleyman Demirel, Mr. Turgut Özal, Prime Minister Mr. Bulent Ecevit, Prime Minister Mr. Necmettin Erbakan, they were all very good politicians and were also good statesmen, and their third attributes were the men of the heart. May God have mercy on all of them. They've had all kinds of jobs in this country, but do political parties have groups or representatives in Congress today? No. But there's the government. The first duty of the political institution and the politician is to uphold state traditions and state. If you only do politics with the desire to take over your party, to take over your leader, willingly, there's always a danger of facing new initiatives like July 15th. My fellow AKP MPs, I'd like to ask you now: are there any of you in our country who say that the military coup customs, the massacres of Çorum, Marash, Sivas, the unsolved executions, the unsolved murders in this country, the PKK terror organization, the terrorist organization, are there no international forces behind it? I'm asking you, answer me, please. So are there any of you who claim that international forces are not behind these terrorist organizations? So if international forces are behind these terrorist organizations and international forces are causing us to fight to divide this country's unitary state structure, to threaten its republic, in order to divide it, in the name of the state, how did we go to see the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Oslo, to bring the courts of this country to Habur Border Gate, to the terrorists' feet?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0359par0154	Here, complete it, Mr. Erol.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0355par0155	Now we have a right to ask these things because the continuation of the state traditions of this country, the continuation of state merits, should be a priority for all of us. Politics is temporary, the state is permanent, and we shouldn't be playing with state and state tradition. If the parties have the desire to be government, not just government, and with that desire, they continue to change management with this system, then the country may have more serious problems than it has today. Mr. Secretary, congratulations on your ministry. Our friends at the Plan and Budget Commission also expressed satisfaction with your Ministry in their assessments there. But I'd like to present to you a few things that need to be done about your ministry. What's all this? First: Our Chief of Staff should be appointed according to the traditions of the Turkish Armed Forces as before, not under the authority of our President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0359par0158	Mr. Erol, I'll give you one more minute, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0355par0159	The promotion of generals should be done not by the will of the government, but by the traditions of the Turkish Armed Forces and by the military. Military schools must be opened for sure, military hospitals must be reconnected with the Ministry of National Defense, and most importantly, the Defense Industry Undersecretary has been converted to Vice President, and the Defence Industry Presidency must be re-connected with the Ministry of Defense. As I finish my speech, I say that this country has only one undisputable, undisputable leader, and thanks to him, we are in this Parliament, and we all have to remember it with gratitude and respect. Long live Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0360par0163	Thank you, Mr. Erol. It's time for Sivas MP Transport Karasu. Here you go, Mr. Karasu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0361par0168	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. The East Anatolian Project, founded in 2011 -- intended to develop in Eastern Anatolia -- was intended to eliminate the inequality of our provinces in education, health, agriculture, and economic development, as well as the disparity between the regions of Sivas, Erzincan, Malatya, Elazig, Tunceli, Ağehan, Bingöl, Bitlis, Erzurum, Hakkari, Iğdir, Mush, Van and Kars. As with everything else in this project, the AKP's account at home has failed to fit the market, and the project, which they announced would contribute $4.19 billion a year to the economy at its origin date, has been abandoned to its destiny. The project, which has a budget of 158 million in 2018, has a budget reduced to 87 million in 2019. At the time of its creation, the mountain has given birth to mice from the project, which is supposed to raise the region, and this project has not been able to address any of the problems of the region in the industry or in health or in other matters intended for its purposes. I'd like to give you a few examples of how successful this project is. According to TÜİK data, there were 938,000 small animals in Bitlis in 2011, while at the end of 2017 the number dropped to 594,000. There is still no organised industrial area in Hakkari, and many other municipalities are abandoned to their fate. Ağrı, Ardahan, Bingöl, Bitlis, Hakkari, İgdır, Mush, Tunceli and Van. Fifty percent of the population of Bingal, 47.6% of Hakkari, 47.3% of the population of Van. Forty-seven.3% of the people of Ağrı, 39.2% of Bitlis, 37.5% of the population of Iğdır, 35.5% of the Muş, 32.6% of the population of Kars. As it turns out, this project has been of no use to the region or to the country. Now, looking at this dramatic picture, your president appears in every speech, taunting our Republican People's Party municipalities. The first 10 municipalities with the highest level of humanitarian development in Turkey are Republican People's Party municipalities, the Human Development Foundation's research on district municipalities in Turkey. Because there's justice in Republican People's Party municipalities, there's equality, there's peace, there's human-oriented municipalism, there's environmental and there's nature, there's women, there's young, there's children, there's disability, and people who live in areas where there are Republican People's Party municipalities look to the future with hope. We are returning to the provinces of the project: 8 municipalities of the 15 counties included in the DAP are run by AKP-based presidents and 5 by the presidents appointed by the AKP (AKP); not one of them has a Republican People's Party municipality. In this region, poverty, inequality, unemployment, immigration continues because there are injustices, inequalities, rants, massacres of nature and environments in the AKP's municipalities; there are services to the side, not to man. For these reasons, the local people were condemned to despair, poverty, migration. Dear lawmakers, today is the day when Adminah, who contributed to the development of tolerance, language of love, peace, and culture of living together for hundreds of years, walks to Hakkk, and I honor him. How well did he say: "Beware who you travel with, who you associate with, because the nightingale laughs, the crow takes it to the dump. " Is there a word that explains better than this? (HPP) This is the friendship that led to the July 15th, the martyrdom of the citizens of this country, the victimization of people. On December 17th and 25th, it was the first time that the AKP-AKP's accomplices had been broken. You've walked together for years, you've walked together, you've made the whole country miserable. This budget, unfortunately, is an indication of the damage you and your partners have done to this country. In this budget we've been talking about for a week, where are the wages that Sivas Iron Steel workers haven't received in seven months? Where's the employment for 1.5 million college graduates looking for a job? ▪ Can't a man bring bread to his home? Where is the hope of our Sivasite citizen, who tried to commit suicide?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0362par0179	Complete it, Mr. Karasu.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0361par0180	Where's the cure for the convenience store whose fate is condemned to your side markets? Where's the farmer with no farm, tractors, foreclosures, callous hands, no livelihood but the sweat of the forehead? No workers, no officers, no pensions in the budget you brought in. You know what? There's a bunch of loan sharks in this budget, the palace's greedy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0363par0181	Shame on you! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0361par0182	Your President-General, who has repeatedly threatened this budget's worker, officer, farmer, tradesman, every day a little bit more hunger, poverty, and our President-General, should know that we are not a party formed by petitioning the Ministry of Internal Affairs like you, we are built on battlefields. (CHP) There are Sivas and Erzurum Conventions in our history. In our history, we have Kuvasimilli. There are republics and revolutions in our history. In our history, there's equality between men and women.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0364par0183	Do they have a Supreme Court?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0361par0184	Our history has democracy, freedoms, union rights. We have Cyprus in our history, the workers who were slaughtered on May 1st of '77.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0365par0186	Mr. Karasu, put him through, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0361par0188	In our history, we have comrades who don't bow to blows, who have lost in torture, on death rows. We have Mustafa Kemal Ataturk in our history. In our history, we have millions of citizens who are never afraid to pay the price for the independence of this country, for democracy, for freedom, for justice. Don't confuse us with your allies or partners; you have the Republican People's Party, which you owe the seats to. Thank you. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit04spe0365par0191	Thank you, Mr. Karasu. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0365par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. The commission is in place. We will continue the talks on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Karaman MP İsmail Atakan Üsver. Here you go, Mr. Ünver. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0366par0009	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the KOP Administration budget. I salute the High Council. The KOP region consists of Karaman, Aksaray, Kırkkale, Kırşehir, Konya, Nüğde, Nevşehir, and Yozgat. The KOP Administration has been criticised in the 2017 Court's Report, where projects in the action plan have not been launched and those who have begun have not been completed on time. In a nutshell, the Court has the names of the projects, and it does not exist. Karaman, for example, is still not finished in 2014 when the Konya-Karaman Speed Train Line began its production. Karamana, the fresh drinking water project from the Ibrala Dam was opened before the election, and the city was given water that did not meet the drinking water criteria for two months. And then, he wasn't able to do it, and then he was turned back into the water of the existing wells. Another unfinished project is the 21km Karaman Environment Road Project. The Plains of Conium irrigation projects can't be finished either. Tourism has not achieved the necessary momentum, since tourism and transport projects in Nevşehir and Aksaray have not been implemented in the region. Since the price is not stable in potatoes, the potato manufacturer in Nigde is in a state of uncertainty and uncertainty. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The wheat and barley agriculture in the region is finished because wheat and barley are not worth anything. Our farmer was especially interested in corn farming in Konya and Karaman. The corn that consumes a lot of water exploits water resources that are already limited. The lakes in the area are dried up, the underground waters are drained. Deep sinkholes began to form in the cognac and Carpınar. It frightens us of the possibility that a sinkhole would swallow one of our villages as a people of the region. The failure to resolve the irrigation problem in the KOP region, which is Turkey's fifth-to-one area, has brought agriculture to an end in the region. In order for the region's water supply to be fed, projects from outside the region to provide water must be completed immediately. The KOP Administration, the KOP Action Plan, has not been able to compensate for these shortcomings that I used to use as an example, and much more, it was not a regional attraction, and all the provinces in the region migrated in 2016-2017. You know, in places such as Çankaya, Beşiktaş, Kadıköy, Şişli, where voters were first asked to be replaced by people who ate the cream of the Turkish cake, and after that, what is the sin of the KOP provinces where you received 55 per cent to 76 per cent of the vote in the recent elections, not the CHP's, but the capital city municipality and government's investments? Why don't you bring some of that cream and feed it to the KOP provinces that have been voting hard for you for years and you have the municipalities? Let them support you for many years, and you go and feed the cream elsewhere. Is this not justice? I'd like to say a few words on the general budget: you have no more stories to tell our people. The budget for 2019 is a total bankruptcy budget. And when he has no wealth left to sell, you are like an heir to a debtor. In 16 years, you've privatized over 60 billion dollars -- $453 billion in foreign debt, $130 billion. In the budget you brought in in 2019, funds have been cut, investments have been halted, non-started projects have been left to an unknown brand. There's only one thing left for you to offer, the nation's gardens for our nation's families to lie down and roll over. Oh, and, uh, folks, you got your cribs, don't you? And tea, soup, cake for free. You can't be too proud. You've been in power for 16 years. Did you make a TAPRACY? Did you do a TELECOM? Did you make a TECEL? Did you do PETKIM, SECA, Sumerbank, Etibank? No. You didn't do it, you didn't do it, you didn't do it, but you sold it all, and then you sold everything, and then you found something -- the do-and-do-do, sorry, watch. I'd like to tell you what you're watching.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0367par0024	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0366par0025	You're watching how these poor people's resources are being robbed and robbed of their fellow contractors. You're watching, and you're silent, and you're watching, and you're watching, and you're making fun of people, and you're making fun of them, and you're making fun of them. That's enough of a plague for you, actually. All you've done since the beginning of the budget is the number salad, and you don't know what's wrong with the poor or the poor. No workers, civil servants, farmers, tradesmen, pensioners; no EYT, 3600 additional indicators on your agenda. There is no work for the unemployed, no food for the hungry, no hope for the tradesman, no support for the worker, no retirement for YIT, no pension for the pensioner, no bread for the official, no bread for the farmer. But what? There's a 26 percent raise on the president. Do it, do it! [[Applause from CHP rows]] The world that is left to Sultan Süleyman will be left to no one, and you will have no doubt. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0368par0031	Thank you, Mr. Unver. Now it's time for Libzon MP Ahmet Kaya. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0369par0036	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from our Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the Eastern Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration. I salute and cherish our fellow citizens and the High Council, watching us on the screens. Dear lawmakers, the Eastern Black Sea District is one of the least industrialized areas in our country, and therefore it is constantly migratory. The population of the country rose from 2000 to 28 per cent today, while the population of the eastern Black Sea region has decreased by 16 per cent. This period, no investments in the Black Sea have been made, only to provide production and employment. The unemployed and helpless region has been forced to migrate. The main reason for this migration is the economy, the bread, the food, the business. As we talk about the budget here today, there are rout projects all over the East Black Sea that betray nature, history, culture, human beings. One of the oldest cities in Anatolia, Tripoli, is that our historical memory is being destroyed by the power of TOKI and the Metropolitan, the quarry is opening in our green valleys, and our beautiful plateaus, which are allowed to be plundered, are talking about new projects and urban transformations. The fact that protecting these beauties is the right thing to do is to ignore the fact that regional tourism is also taking a huge hit. For our region of the East Black Sea, which everyone admires for its natural beauty, Mr. Erdogan said: "Ayder, which God has given us, is different, but we have defiled and disgraced Ayder. We have defiled Longgöl, and disgraced him. Yes, you have defiled and disgraced him. The places you soiled and disgraced are not limited to Longghol and Ayder. We don't want you to desecrate and disgrace our paradise country any more, and for that, we call your budget and you no. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this budget is the first budget of the court's regime, and the subject of this budget is the burden and the burden and even the hidden subject is the luxury, the luxury, the palace. There's unemployment in our country, there's poverty in our country, there's income, there's expense, there's economic crisis, but it's not in your budget that you want to do with a 233% increase. No black Sea nut makers, no tea producers, no fishermen, no tourists, no young people, no workers, no tradesmen, no pensioners, no subcontractors, no pensioners, no pensioners. In short, no human, no conscience, no nation, no people's problems. That's why we call this budget the budget of democracy, not the budget of science, and we call it no. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, when AKP came to power 16 years ago, we all had factories, ports, industrial facilities in this country; our farmer was producing and selling from its value; we had plenty and abundance from our fields; we had schools and health clinics; we had municipalities in our villages; our press was free, our judgment was free; elections were being made fair in our country; and above all, the sovereignty was made and unconditional. Sixteen years have passed, today, we face the reality of our sold factories, our finished farms, our unplanted farms, our contaminated natures, our dried-up rivers, our debt-driving economy, our people who are struggling with the poverty of living, our unemployed youth, our changed regime, our state traditions, the destruction of judiciary, military, national education, the streets of their cities, a heavy Turkish reality that has reached 4.5 million. So we say: AKP means unemployment. The AKP means corruption. The AKP is a pain in the ass. The AKP is an unplanted field, which means factories that are sold. The AKP is about giving up production. (HPP) AKP means "concordato" is bankruptcy. The AKP is an unassigned teacher, an unassigned engineer. The AKP is the victim's wild card workers. The AKP is about pensioners, it's about waste, it's about cost.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0370par0046	It's all a lie!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0369par0047	The AKP means victims of urban transformation. The AKP is to leave the light of reason and science, away from righteousness. [[Applause from CHP rows, noise from AK PARTY rows]] Don't be angry, friends, please listen, face what you've done, don't be angry. Admit it, you've made some very big mistakes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0371par0050	But you're lying.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0372par0051	We're not angry, we're laughing, we're laughing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0369par0052	Admit it, you've made some very big mistakes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0373par0054	Complete it, Mr. Rock. Please address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0374par0056	It's not real to repeat the lie 100 times.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0375par0057	It's all real, all of it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0376par0058	After you sold the manufacturer's nuts for damages, you went down in history with the price.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0377par0059	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0375par0060	It's all real!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0377par0061	It's all lies!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0378par0062	You ruined the tea maker with the quota app. You guaranteed access to vehicles that didn't cross the bridge. You assured the passengers who didn't fly at the airport, but you couldn't guarantee your own farmer, your manufacturer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0377par0064	Lies!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0379par0065	It's all real!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0380par0066	You're lying!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0381par0067	You raised the associate without saying, "Haram, it's okay." We came from the slums. You said, "You have forgotten where you came from, you have dried the treasure, you have dried the weed, you have kept it." (Applause from CHP rows, AK PARTY rows)
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0382par0068	Lies!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0381par0069	You've finished the production and the manufacturer, you've ruined the economy, and then you're talking about saving the country. Know that those who are the source of the problem can never come up with a solution. You can't draw a line with a curved ruler. Make no mistake, folks, as it was yesterday, we will save this country as the Republican People's Party, but first from you, then from their troubles.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0383par0070	You've been saying the same thing for 16 years. You're imagining it, you're imagining it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0381par0071	Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0073	Thank you, Mr. Rock. It's Samsun's turn to say...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0385par0075	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0076	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0385par0077	I respect your policy, let's respond at the end of group talk, but we reject a way of speaking so theatrically. All of this will be answered anyway. I'm returning all your claims to him, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0386par0079	Mr. President, report to the report. When you criticize such a good speech, using it as a bad analogy, it is an insult to such an art as theatre and to the precious representatives of that art.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0081	Thank you. Now, if you'll just...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0387par0083	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0084	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0387par0085	Mr. President, calling a man a theatricalist is not an insult, but an example of that man's hypocrisy, his good work, his good role. It takes an art to be able to tell so many lies. I want to say it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0086	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Finally, Mr. Special and about to go to the report.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0388par0088	Mr. President, theater is not the art of telling lies with skill, it's the art of bringing life itself to the stage.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0384par0090	Thank you. Now it's time for Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0389par0095	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you. In the central management budget of 2019, I have made a commitment to the head of the Development and Support Administration for Small and Medium Business Development, or, in short, the budget of KOSGEB. Dear friends, when people start their first job in Turkey, when they start trading, they become members of the tradesmen's bail bonds co-ops, and here, with their membership, they first apply to use the loans of those tradesmen's bail co-ops; that's very important. In Turkey, we have over 1,600,000 tradesmen and artists who belong to loan co-ops. Turkey has used about 400 million loans through the People's Bank. The number of tradesmen using these loans is 448 thousand. Currently, the government's support for the tradesmen's bail bonds co-ops is only $1.7 billion. My dear friends, with such a budget, what does it mean to support such support from a small tradesman? This is the loan used by 448 thousand people per person -- per person, per shop -- for only $3,800. I think this -- to your appreciation -- is an indication of how the tradesman and the artist are supported by loans from the Turkish tradesman and bail co-op. My dear friends, there are 67,056 enterprises in support of small-scale tradesmen and businesses in Turkey, which are supported by $1 billion and $235m this year. On the other hand, the small tradesman received interest support of $1 billion and $39 million. It is Turkey's locomotive, Turkey's production, Turkey's industry, this small tradesman in KOSGEB. The Minister is here. In this crisis, in the crisis of 2018, did you provide support to our merchant, our tradesman, our industrialist on this scale? And we'd like to dedicate our appreciation to this support from the Minister. My dear friends, in the crisis in Samsun and Samsun, in 2018, 316 companies closed their doors and 30,731 companies were closed in Turkey. Mr. Secretary is in charge here. So if people close their doors, lock their businesses, that's because the Minister and the government don't follow the right policies, my dear friends. On the other hand, the political government says: "We don't have any debts. We'll pay 117.3 billion interest in the budget." What if the owner of a business that doesn't have any debts, a government, an employee, has a chance to buy interest in the budget of 2019, like 117 billion? I'd like Mr. Finance Minister to explain how much we owe you when you write this interest. Our fellow citizens, in this budget, there are workers, civil servants, traders, who are completely negative, but there are no positive aspects of them, and in 2018, they are under pressure from the manufacturer, the potato, the onion producer...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0390par0105	Complete it, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0389par0106	And I'm wondering when this government is going to support our people by proving the potato, the onion, the potato manufacturer, the dealer. How will you support the production of these people? There's only one method, Mr. Secretary, that you have to build industrial factories while these products are being produced, and you have to build frozen food factories. I just want to say that as long as you can't do that, you have no chance of putting pressure on the people who make them. It is not possible for those who are not in a democratic movement to talk about democracy in this country, my dear friends. Here, in a place where democracy does not exist, those who fear exert pressure and violence because they fear. I wish the 2019 budget to be good, to be good.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0391par0111	Put him through, please, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0389par0112	But the crisis that you created will grow larger by expanding the budget of 2019, that the public's debt burden will increase, that our self-returning tradesman will have difficulty turning our people's credits... I hereby wish our people, our nation, the best of the budget in 2019.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0391par0115	Thank you, Mr. Zeybek. Kayseri MP Cetin Arık is in line. Here you go, Mr. Arik. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute your grand delegation. Today is December 17th; today is the 2nd year of the martyrdom of 15 of our sons in Kayseri. From here, once again, I curse every terrorist organization, supporter, eyeball, silencer, and ask God's mercy to our martyrs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers are a trust given to those who govern the state in our religion for the use of the state budget, the basis of Bethulmal, rights and justice. The property belongs to the people; it must be taken rightfully, it must be spent rightfully, and it must be avoided when you take it or spend it. I'd like to address the conscience of 80 million citizens from the public's bench: Is the AKP getting government from the deserving? Spends it on someone who deserves it? Does he avoid injustice when he takes and spends? Look, lawmakers, this is a 17-year-old diabetic Dilara. She died because she couldn't go to the controls because of lack of money. Not disease, but poverty killed the beautiful Dilara. This is a few coins for the trillions, Father. It's the master bedroom of the child's seven counting machines in the bedroom, Mr. Bkent Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0393par0127	Are you Zechariah's lawyer? Shame on you! They've been told ten times it's a fake. You're the lawyer!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0394par0128	Hospitals are free of charge.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0129	Look, this is Ayten Cloud, this is Ayten Cloud. Kayseri died with her baby in her belly because she couldn't go to the hospital because of lack of money in this house with her window covered in plastic.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0394par0130	Hospitals are free, free.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0395par0131	It's free.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0132	This is your thousand-room palace.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0396par0133	Looks like CHP headquarters, huh?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0134	If the moon's clouds are dying because of lack of money, let this palace of yours sink to the ground and this palace of yours. So we say no to this court budget, and we say no a thousand times.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0397par0136	It's a people's property, not a palace.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0137	Congressmans, look, you see on the arm of this police officer, Grandma Gazal, who was detained at the age of 81 because she couldn't pay off her water debt.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0398par0138	No one's being taken into custody because of the water debt, and there's no such thing. You're not telling the truth, no one will be taken into custody for water debt. You're telling so many lies. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0139	So, who's this? You know this very well. This is Mehmet Genghis, who swears at people, eats Turkey's profits, and is remitting millions of dollars in tax debt.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0398par0140	Can you tell me what province it was in?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0141	O my people, how long will you run after this cruel power, who has detained Grandma Gazal, 81, for her debt of water, and who has cursed you for your own sweat?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0399par0143	Show some respect.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0144	Congressmans, look, do you know what the Lord Abubekir says? I haven't put a dinar or a dirham on my account since I took over the Muslim business. Our beloved Prophet Muhammad says that he who steals a cardigan from the property of the state, even if he dies in battle, he is not a martyr. Mr. President of the AKP, pointing out this sensitivity, I have no wealth other than this ring on my finger. One day Recep Tayyip Erdogan became rich. If they say he stole it, he says he stole it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0400par0146	You're lying!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0147	And then you know what he says, Mr. President of the AKP: Do you know why poor is poor? Because he doesn't know how to play. Do you know why the poor, the poor, the lawmakers? The poor are poor because they would rather die with dignity than live by stealing someone else's rights, not because they don't know how to play. Like this father who took his life because he couldn't buy his son school pants.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0401par0149	That's a lie, too! Have fear of falsehood! Have fear of falsehood!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0150	You know these fathers very well, and these fathers are your fathers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0401par0151	That's a lie, too! That's a lie, too!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0152	These are the fathers who lay in front of Zarrab, so that they and their children's bribery wheels don't break.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0401par0153	It's a shame! How can you tell so many lies?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0154	So this budget is the budget of these fathers, so we say no, and we say no to this budget so that your father's bones don't bleed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0402par0157	Make your commitments, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0158	Ladies and gentlemen, what else does Hazreti Abubekir say: the bad things we've eaten since I took over the work of the believers are the hard and rough ones we've worn. This is not the food of those who eat when the neighbor is hungry. This is the table of those who say it is not ours. See, a bird's milk is missing. And this is in Kayseri, look, the mother at Kayseri, on the day of the festival, picking bread for the child you see next to her. That's the budget, that's the budget. We don't have this moment in this budget, so we're going to call this budget no, we're going to say no.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0403par0160	You're always hiding behind fake photos.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0404par0161	Don't get angry, don't get angry; the truth hurts.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0392par0162	The braves you see in this photograph are our martyrs, our braves, who froze to death in the mountains of Tunceli. What about this photo?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0405par0164	Forget these photos, they're fake.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0406par0165	The truth hurts.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0405par0166	You've been tricked.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0407par0167	This picture contains palm trees that are heated for the chief to eat fresh dates. There are no such braves in this budget. A thousand times in this rotten palace budget that heats up the palm trees in his garden and freezes our troops in the mountains, a thousand times, a thousand times no, a thousand times no.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0408par0170	Tie up your vows. I'll give you one last minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0407par0172	I'll put you through, thank you. Look, what else does the Lord Abubekir say? Since we've taken over the work of the believers, there's nothing other than this Ethiopian slave and this fabric of muslims. Mr. AKP President has 290 MPs and 13 planes, and as if that's not enough, he's getting a $1 million plane from Qatar. The student who asked him for a scholarship to study also says, "Do not get used to freeing. " That's the budget for people who get used to freeloading. He says, "No, no, no, no, no, a thousand times, I salute your high council, for he says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0409par0176	Thank you, Mr. Arik.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0410par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0409par0178	Mr. Turan, if you'll just wait a little longer, there are already three speakers left, and I'll promise you later.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0410par0179	But, Mr. President, that doesn't make it necessary to make a statement. In a sense, it's very offensive, very...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0409par0180	We promise collectively.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0410par0181	But, Mr. President, we've seen it again: no doctor can treat the arrhythmia fracture. That's a lot of insults.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0409par0182	Yes, Izmir MP Ednan Arslan is now in charge. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0186	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the budget of the esteemed MPs TÜBITAK and the Turkish Academy of Sciences. I hereby salute our High Council with love and respect. The AKP government, which has created science out of the ministry's name, has apparently removed science, technology, development, development from within these institutions. We regret to see that this budget has no science, no technology, no RD. The budget of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) in 2019 is only $3 billion 74 million, $2336, and the budget of the Ministry of Religious Affairs is 10 billion. See what happens when this is the painting. In 2017, 243,500 patent applications were applied worldwide, the United States was ranked 56,624th, South Korea was ranked as the fifth, 15763 applications, and Turkey was ranked as the 21st, unfortunately, with 1,235 applications. In the 2018 Global Innovation Index Report, Turkey fell 7 digits from the previous year to the 50th ranking between 126 countries. OECD countries split the average 2.5 per cent of their national income into RD activities. And that's not even 1% of us, I'm afraid. Ibn Sinai has a beautiful saying, saying that science and art leave the country without dignity. Although the government recently launched mobilisation for the return of our scientists home, 253,640 people left the country in 2017. I'm sorry to say, 42 percent of them are in the 20 to 34-year-old group, our young people. So it's going as fast as it can with a brain drain. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask you a simple question.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0412par0190	Go ahead, I'm listening.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0191	Is there a Turkish brand in every corner of the world that everybody knows about, like Mercedes, like Adidas, like Samsung?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0412par0192	There is, there is, there is Turkish Airlines. Don't you see Turkish Airlines?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0193	We'll see Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0412par0194	You've never been on a plane?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0195	Come on, come on, come on, we know about Turkish Airlines.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0413par0196	Mr. Orator, address the General Assembly, please, no recriminations.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0197	Don't, don't. It bothers me, guys, it bothers me. We've transferred Turkish Airlines, of course, to the Entity Fund, where we'll use it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Even a car company in Germany has more than two-and-a-half times as much as RD.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0414par0201	Ask me one more question, ask me one more question.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0202	Yes, come and speak, dear brother, and speak.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0414par0203	I'll talk to him tomorrow.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0411par0204	Speak up, beautiful brother.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0415par0205	Please... Please, Mr. Lawmakers, let's not interfere. You address the General Assembly, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0416par0208	Even the money a car company has set aside for RD is more than twice the money the Republic of Turkey has set aside for RD. Even this is an embarrassment to us. (HPP) We have to move forward in science, to keep up with progress, or even to pioneer. My fellow lawmakers, these institutions should be the future and hope of this country, not just these days. There are seven board members of TÜBİTAK (TÜBİTAK) and 11 members of the Turkish Academy of Sciences. None of this is a woman, I'm afraid. That alone is enough to say no to the budget of these institutions, friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Is there a single member of this board that is not associated with AKP politicians? You're either making deputies you don't have on the list, or you're putting them on the board of directors. TÜBITAK, which has become a laughing stock in social media, is particularly prominent in projects that he does not accept as well as he does. There's a project that the Manisa students are doing. TÜBITAK says no to this project. The project is invited to the International Conference on Arts and Sciences at Harvard University and Germany. TED-based students have a project, TÜBITAK does not accept it again, becoming world number one in a competition of 2,450 projects from 54 countries. We regret to say, it's possible to replicate these samples. It's one of the pictures of what we've done to the country, how the institutions are ejaculated, how they've lost function. Unfortunately, TÜBITAK, which is in every institution, has also been handed over. From 2013-2018, 1,289 people who were connected with the terrorist organization were expelled from the institution. I'd like to ask the Minister: you've cut these people off from the institutions. So, Mr. Secretary, have you taken into consideration the projects that have been supported?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0417par0215	We got it, we got it, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0416par0216	Have you been unfairly undermining payments made under the name "project" somewhere, Mr. Secretary? The Court has identified several irregularities, corruption, public damage in its audit report on the METEC, which the Grand National Assembly of Turkey sent to the KİT Commission.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0418par0219	Complete your words, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0416par0220	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of the Republican People's Party's OCE Commission have filed a criminal complaint. It's impossible to read them one by one because of the time shortage, but just the fact that the relevant general manager received an exorbitant salary in 2016, including bonuses, shows how much trouble there is here. Their counterparts, including all funds, receive $13,000 in salary in public companies, which employ thousands of employees such as BOTAŞ, Machine and Chemical Industries and TOKI. According to the criminal complaint filed by our members of the OSCE Commission, this person was rewarded and appointed as head of Technopark at the University of Health Sciences, while the ministry should remove this general director until the issues are cleared up. So, what happened to the report?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0419par0222	What happened?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0416par0223	What happened to this court member who defended the right to an orphan? He's been assigned a more passive mission. The other thing, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, is that in 2018, a union member of the DİSK was involved in union activities...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0420par0226	Please make your commitments, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0416par0227	Thank you, Mr. President. Despite his request for permission, he has not received a positive or negative answer in the past nine months. In response, the verbal and written requests of the executives of the ÜBITAK Union of ÜBİTAK have been met and directed to the meetings of the ÜZ BORO-İST Union during the working hours of the presidential and institute buildings in Gebze and Ankara. These conveniences provided to the Office of Public Prosecutor's Office include the use of meeting halls during working hours, the hanging of propaganda, announcement posters, the transfer of the employee's phone and contact information to the Office-SIP Union, and the use of the TÜBİBİTAK business communications lines to the EVO-SCEN. For what purpose, how, why, who, in a strategic organization are the possibilities for this level of access to the UNA? Is there an investigation on this subject? On what grounds was this ease provided for the ÜBİTAK Union without any authority? There's no science in this budget, there's no art in this budget, there's no women in this budget... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...no rights in this budget, no law. I say we vote negatively as Republican Rights Party, and I salute you with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0421par0233	Thank you, Mr. lion. The order of the speech is Eskişehir MP Utku Kırözer. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0422par0238	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. With the rule of the only man established today by destroying the principle of dissolution of powers during the 16-year period of the AKP (AKP), the fundamental references of the republic's foreign policy have been abandoned Turkey's imagination, immeasurable, unpredictable foreign policy. I'd like to start with the Syrian issue. Mr. Secretary of State's statement came through yesterday. We can work with Asad. He says. Look, you just got to the point we told you seven years ago. Here is the letter that Mr. President Kemal Kilicdaroğlu sent to the Prime Minister of the period seven years ago, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. What's he saying? ▪ Turkey says there must be no sides within our neighbours. Let's gather a peace conference, gather regimes and opponents, put out this fire. You didn't listen. What did you do? We'll change the regime, we'll bring the auctioneers. You said, you poured gasoline into the fire, all of Turkey has been paying the price for seven years. The hundreds of lives that terror has taken from us, our disappearing border trade, our 3.5 million Syrian brothers that we had to live with... Seven years ago, we were dealing with Syrian administration on the border, now there's ISIS on the other side of the border, there's Nusra, there's PKK, there's dozens of terrorist organizations running around. In three hours you would go to Damascus and pray. You had to kidnap our land in nine hours. It's a virtue to return from error. Your Syrian policy can never be presented as a success. Only the AKP governments are responsible for the suffering. Then you didn't listen, at least listen now. Mr. Kilicdaroglu and CHP say that the region's problems have to be addressed by countries in the region again. Turkey, Syria, Iran and Iraq should establish a Middle East peace and cooperation organisation and serve for the peace of the region. The fundamental element of our foreign policy is that there's a huge going back in relations with Western institutions. Due to right violations, Turkey has been reduced to the status of the country under observation for the second time since the coup of September 12th on the Council of Europe, which we founded. The European Court of Human Rights has issued 3,000 violations against Turkey. The person who knows the meaning of these decisions is sitting in the State Department's seat today because he is an important figure in the institution, such as Parliamentary Parliamentary Assembly. Unfortunately, these numbers, these decisions, they're not just for him, they're a great embarrassment to all of us. Our democracy card is going backwards. For this reason, the European Parliament wants to freeze our accession process, the European Union's Customs Union Agreement delays our right to update our demand, see, even in NATO, where we have veto power, the report on rights violations in Turkey can be drawn up. Mr. Minister boasts that we have opened 50 embassies to Africa, that our number of missions abroad has found 250. Success and dignity in diplomacy don't just come by score, first your democracy will be strong, you'll have inner peace, you'll lock up journalists for your own citizen's opinion, you'll openly threaten journalists, you'll destroy the dignity of our country. Look, in 2008, after 40 years, Turkey was elected a temporary member of the United Nations Security Council, with 151 votes, and a few years later, it was nominated again for 2016; what was the outcome? It's a failure. Not even African countries, we only got 60 votes. You have to think about the reasons for all of this. My dear friends, the most highlighted issue is to be human and primitive in foreign policy, but we always have the standard principle in us. Look, because the members of the Muslim Brotherhood are in prison, we have cut off Egypt, and we have not had ambassadors in Cairo for many years. Well, Russia's Crimea has illegally defected; 400,000 Crimean Tatars are deeply sharing these sufferings under tortures, raids, prisons; hundreds of thousands of Tatar brothers in our country. Did we react to Russia? On the other hand, this power has no agenda as East Turkistan. A million Uygur Turks are being persecuted and tortured in East Turkistan. There is a meeting in the United Nations, Turkey's representative says: "We welcome the steps taken by China on human rights. There is no East Turkistan, there is no Sincan, there is no Uygur Turk, there is no Uygur Turk. The principle, the human foreign policy? The violence of Israel against our Palestinian brothers is unacceptable. We say that what happened in Jerusalem is unacceptable. But let's cancel the agreements. We collect the Islamic Conference, we make UN decisions, we don't want ambassadors, we attract our own ambassadors, but there's no sanction. And what do you think those who do not leave ashes in the barbecue when it comes to Israel do when it comes to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia? You know, the Saudi kingdom where we mourn when he died? What happened to Saudi Arabia, where we promised logistics and intelligence support for the tragedy they put us through in Yemen today?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0423par0246	Bind your words, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0422par0247	Okay. These Saudis Cemal Spoonçı killed him at the consulate in İstanbul. You've got all kinds of wiretaps, all kinds of footage, even if it's not presented to the House. We're asking: if so, why did you let the massacre team leave? Why didn't you call the Saudi Consul to testify? Why didn't you call him and let him leave the VIP? Why don't you show your reactions to Israel, Egypt, Germany, the Netherlands, in much lighter diplomatic crises now, and why not for the massacre in our own country? What are you doing here and there, other than playing audio? Why don't you send these messengers back at least until the investigation is over, and why don't you call off our own ambassador? Another double standard example of the Gulf is Qatar. Look, in the tension in the Gulf, we've taken care of Qatar (Katar) under the embargo, even milk and formula have gone from Turkey. It wasn't enough, we built a base there, we sent soldiers. Then we heard that Qatar went and sold his Turkish brothers in Cyprus and made strategic oil deals with the Greeks. I'm asking how this is friendship, how this is a brotherhood of religion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0424par0251	Mr. Cakirozer, put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0422par0252	I hereby convey to the Sheikh of Qatar: If you wish to show your gratitude to the Republic of Turkey, if you wish to make a gesture, do not send us a flying palace, and do not go to expense. All you have to do is cancel this dirty deal with the Greeks, be with the Turkish Cypriots, and even get to know the Republic of Northern Cyprus. This is no greater gift to the Republic of Turkey and to our people. My dear friends, Mr. Secretary, 23 per cent of the foreign staff, or 600 diplomats and other employees, have been kicked out because they are involved. How did the most key Ministry of Turkey infiltrate the Foreign Ministry in such an organized fashion? Who turned this Ministry's long-answered, type of tests into a test so that people could pass out? This can't just be the work of a chief of staff, an assistant chief of staff. Under it, they are responsible for the disgrace of any political authority, and without that reckoning, Turkey has not cleared itself of the situation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0424par0255	Bow, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0422par0256	Finally, my dear friends, diplomacy is a work of righteousness, tradition, you start as a clerk, attachion, maslahatzary, consulate, a road to the embassy. Turkey gains advantage from maintaining this tradition and keeping it out of political interference. It is worrying that loyalty to the party is replaced by integrity during recent ambassador assignments to the ministry. That's what he did, and they raised the diplomats they leaked according to loyalty to the organization. Please keep the State Department away from political appointments. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0424par0259	Thank you, Mr. Cacharouser. The last speaker for the CHP Group is İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, the high cheer must have been an incentive for you to give an effective speech. Mr. Özdemir, your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0425par0265	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budgets of institutions relating to the presidency of the European Union. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, in our foreign policy, we all know that our country has lost its reputation, reputation and the perspective of the European Union because of the disregard of institutions, established conditions and the conduct of foreign policy through one man's politics. From the beginning of our establishment, foreign policy, personalized and personal interests, which is the national and strategic policy of our state tradition. Our relations with the European Union, particularly with neighbouring countries, have been wasted on inconsistencies, inconsistencies, personal, periodical and even day-to-day political interests, and, unfortunately, has been moved to the point of becoming an internal policy tool. Yes, it's true that the European Union has been unfair to our country, and we bring it up in every environment, but today, in 2005, we need to discuss the responsibility of power when a major consensus and exciting accession talks come to a freezing or even breaking point. Full accession talks with the current 16 years of power have been dragged far beyond ups and downs to a breaking point. Our full accession process has been compressed into the axis of specific areas such as the immigration, refugee issue, visa exemption, the Customs Union Agreement, and our main priority is to open only 16 chapters in accession talks, one chapter is temporarily closed, and negotiations are now frozen. More importantly, valuable lawmakers, the principles of the rule of law, independence of justice and the separation of forces are far away from the principles of the Copenhagen political criteria, which are the basis of our membership in the European Union at this stage today. As clearly noted in the Venice Commission report of the Council of Europe, where we are founding principles, as we are a founding member of the founding body, the principles of democracy and power separation have been seriously injured as a result of the referendum and election in the conditions of the State of Emergency. With power in one person, our country has become the focus of debates about its withdrawal from basic universal European values, such as democracy, justice, law, and a place that reassures the international community. How? The arrests of journalists, human rights advocates, scientists, academics, students, lawmakers, lawmakers, some NGO representatives without even an indictment, practices and pressure climate for digesting opposition voices, are evidence that a journalist and TV broadcaster have just faced today. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The fact that the ECHR decisions are not considered by local courts, that they are not implemented, that they are ruled by them, has brought Turkey to debate at the point of being a state of law at the European Council and at the European Union level. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, whose universal values we embrace at the present time, have re-controlled our country due to the corruption of democratic institutions in Turkey, and in the past month, the European Parliament rapporteur of Turkey called for the end of membership talks in the draft report, and most importantly, on the basis of the rule of law, independence of judiciary, serious setbacks in the principle of fundamental human rights and division of forces. So, these debates have taken our country away from the perspective of full membership in the European Union, but have brought with it serious costs in the areas of good lawmakers, democracy, economics, law and judiciary. Here, budget talks are addressed for hours and hours and details of the costs in each area. Well, lastly, Mr. Secretary, you've taken the Reform Action Group meetings on the agenda after three years of accepting these basic areas of trouble. You still haven't taken a concrete step in the areas of justice, freedom, security, as well as fundamental issues, which are the focus of your meeting and the fundamental rights, which are the 23rd chapter, which we strongly support for the opening of the talks. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, but I'm sure Mr. Secretary will reveal an excellent painting, free of self-criticism and reality, as he is about to take steps in his speech during the day. Mr. Secretary, with your long-standing responsibility for democracy, justice and law, you have lost credibility and credibility in this government and this administration...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0426par0277	Bind your words, Mr. Özdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0425par0279	...it is clear that we will no longer be able to distance ourselves from the European Union on the national level or the full accession process, and it is generally agreed upon. As a result, valuable lawmakers, we, the Republican People's Party, will continue with determination to carry out the commitments to Turkey's universal European values by having the vision of Ataturk (Ataturk) modern civilization. Of course, with your permission, I would also like to point out that when we say to reach the level of modern civilization that Ataturk is pointing out, we have built the world's largest airports, bridges, canals. Unfortunately, our European counterparts have no meaning. The level of modern civilization we're talking about is the modern democracy that has been destroyed for 16 years, the rule of law, the separation of forces, the restoration of fundamental rights and freedoms.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0426par0283	Put him through, please, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0425par0284	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we will fight for the interests and gains of 81 million citizens, not for personal, day-to-day interests, to achieve the goal of full membership in our national strategic goal, the European Union. Thank you. I also want to thank our group.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0427par0289	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. So the talks for the CHP Group were completed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0428par0291	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0427par0292	Mr. Turan, I'll give you my word, but first I'll give you my word on the position of a member of parliament that I've identified from each party according to 60, and then I'll give you my word. Yes, Mr. Osmanakaoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0429par0296	Thank you, Mr. President. The attempt by US-backed terrorist organisation PKK/YPG members in Syria to form a terrorist state is not only for Turkey but also for neighbouring countries. The position and attitude of our security forces is admirable. On the other hand, we also care about our State Department's work and its valuable diplomats, who, with the use of diplomatic channels in the international arena, point to danger. I would also like to point out that a peacekeeping operation to the east of Fırat would mean Turkish sealing the region. The environments that trigger instability in Turkey should not be overlooked by attempts to destabilise sensitive balances in the Eastern Mediterranean. In that sense, we feel that our government is aware of the sensitivity of the issue, its stance and attitude are important.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0430par0300	Mr. Goldstone of the Good Party? It's not there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0431par0301	I can speak for the good party.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0430par0302	Mr. Peköz... Can we turn on Mr. Peközü's microphone, please, friends? I promise Mr. Gürer, you get the mike ready, and I'll get back to you, Mr. Peköz. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0432par0307	In Niğde Province, agriculture is made by watering water extracted from the ground by energy. The increase in electricity forces the farmer to pay the electricity debt and the farmer who can't pay the debt becomes unable to water the field when the electricity is cut. One of the provinces covered by KOP is Niğde. Sadly, natural water supplies from the Niğde Toros are wasted on the Mediterranean. If only KOP had carried out projects that had been revealed in the Court's audits, which he had put on shelves by producing many projects and not completed them in time. Will KOP produce solutions in watering water in Niğde? When will the farmer be freed from his debt of electricity due to irrigation water? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0430par0310	Here you go, Mr. Peköz.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0433par0312	Thank you, Mr. President. On November 17th, Sadiq Sarılar, who was taken to the hospital on suspicion of a heart attack, was transferred to Adana City Hospital for six hours on the grounds that doctors had surgery in the emergency room of the City Hospital, and six hours later there was no specialist to operate on the aorta, was transferred to Kahramanmarash Milkyman University Hospital, where the ambulance was disabled on the way to the hospital, but died after surgery. While the AKP's government boasts of excellent improvements in the health system, its people can be transferred from a large city like Adana to Kahramanmarash, and die on the way; they die before they reach the hospital, without proper processing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0430par0315	Yes, Mr. Anvil will speak for Mr. Altıntaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0434par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I would like to address the cry of a mother from Tripoli from the Parliament. Today, the local press in Tripoli reported that the mother named Fatma Aydın, 22-year-old son of Erdoğdu district of our town of Tripoli, was suffering from epilepsy, although doctors gave a solid report and therefore did not take advantage of her family's health insurance policy, stating in the press that she had asked for help from Mr. President. I say, in the eyes of the Ministry of Health, let this Fatma listen to our mother's voice and make necessary attempts on this victim family. At this point, I wanted to present this matter to our High Council. Thank you for your promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0435par0320	Thank you, Mr. Anvil. Mr. Eronat...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0436par0323	Actually, Mr. President, I printed it a few minutes before the hearings to inform on our fellow veterans, but let me speak then. We have about 300 gasses from our 2,700 July 15th veterans, and I don't have the exact number in my head right now, but he's getting paid, so he's a maul vet, and the rest of them don't get paid. That's how I wanted to inform the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0437par0326	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, so I made a promise to one member of all parties in the group. Now, from the Party of Saadet, represented by lawmakers in parliament but without a group, I promise Jahangir Islam for three minutes. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0438par0329	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, my dear friends, two more people have been added to the list of 11 people I counted to you the other day. One of them is Zülfu Demirkaba, the other is Mr. Efkan Ala. So the number of people suing the assembly bench has risen to 13. Of course, I'm curious about this relationship that Mr. Ala came to me a few days ago, and we had a chat here for a while. I don't know if he brought this case up because he felt uncomfortable in the party or the pressure that they were developing on themselves because I didn't expect that kind of improvement from them. In the eyes of this House, I believe he has destroyed all his savings with this case. Now, I'm going to tell you about Ali Fuat Basgil, my dear friends. Maybe they're relatively young... Which I don't remember, I was only about two or three years old, reading history books. The late Ali Fuat Başgil Hoxha is a valuable constitutional professor in this country, who enters parliament as parliament in the elections following the May 27 coup and is listed as a candidate for the President of the Justice Party. However, after a while, Fahri Özdilek and Stikı Ulay take themselves to the Prime Minister's office and can't guarantee your life by members and officers of the National Union Committee. He receives a direct threat and then has to spend his life in Geneva. This is a great example of a hypocritical democracy in the process of democratizing the May 27 coup. Where did it come from? From here, it was elegant: during the presidential election, we had an incident that reminded us of it. What incident did we have? Mr. Hulusi Akar, who is currently the Ministry of Defence, is not here, please convey this speech to him -- Mr. Hulusi Akar, and as I recall, Mr. İbrahim Kaluk had a visit to Mr. Abdullah Gül, who may be running for President. If I were Chief of Staff in this country and Mr. Abdullah Gul had been a very close friend and had a very important death -- and I should have gone to condolences -- I would have made a call -- I would have made a sincere request to make my visit at this time, which would have led to very wrong interpretations. I would have said, "I wouldn't have gone, so I would have postponed my condolence, dear friends." I regret to inform you that this event, whatever intentions, is important in our lives as the second Ali Fuat Archgil incident, which has been passed down to our history, and it has been made due to it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0439par0335	Complete it, Mr. Islam.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0438par0336	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In spite of what? Despite the so-called democratization process or claims that there is a democracy in this country. Anyway, history will write it down in all its details. Truth is never hidden, dear friends. I'm talking about another matter. This was discussed by the speakers before me, and during those events, there was talk of gray propaganda, black propaganda, perception management. Yes, we studied the mosque and drinking beer very seriously at that time. Your opinion of the travel event may be one way or another, and I'm not giving it a complete rejection or full approval.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0440par0340	Put him through, please, Mr. Islam, and we'll give him one more minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0438par0341	I'll put you through, sir. Yes, I'm being critical, but the muezzin of that mosque stated that there was no beer in there, and then he was exiled. Second of all, it was mentioned that the person who wrote it, the writer who took it into his pen, you know, then admitted to writing it without any knowledge under the pressure of the period. She's a person I've been seeing. Friends, at Shebiarus Week, the threat is insufferable. Look, on the one hand, we're having Shebiarus Week, while a journalist and some politicians in Turkey are being threatened. I find these developments very alarming for our country. If I can get a word in edgewise, I'll pick up where I left off. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0441par0347	Thank you, Islam. Mr. Turan, you have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0350	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at this hour of the night, I salute you all again. Our 13 CHP MPs spoke on behalf of the groups in 70 minutes. Of course, if you look at it one by one, we have a duty to respond to many of their speeches, but we can tolerate them all, they can say all of them every day, we can remain silent in the need of democratic discipline about all of them, but there was a conversation that affected us all deeply, and I want to answer for it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0441par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0353	Look, first of all, I'm ashamed to be forced to answer to someone who can't go out on the street, who's booing in the street. Mr. Sener should be ashamed, Mr. President, because he said it was the bloodiest time in the history of Islam. You should be ashamed to be blinded by your political ambitions, Mr. Sener. You should be ashamed, Mr. Sener, that you had to use the same blood and so-called accusations together in the history of Islam that I would oppose the AK PARTY. Everyone knows the path of your husband, if necessary, of your abdominal pain. Skip all that, tell us what your main goal is. Mr. President, Mr. Erdogan was the co-Chair of BOP. He said Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0443par0355	His own testimony.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0356	Mr. President, Mr. Erdogan was then President of BOP, and Mr. Sener was Vice President of BOP. The approach, Mr. President, referred to as BOP (BOP), was a cultural study, which was a symposium union in the United Nations, which led to a cultural union, which failed to survive.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0444par0357	It wasn't like that, it wasn't like that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0358	Mr. President, after that, he received the Jewish Courage Prize in 2005. He said, "Mr. Erdoğan."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0445par0360	That's a lie too, a slander
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0446par0362	Come in, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0363	Mr. President, in 2005, at that time again, Mr. Sener was Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of Finance. That prize of courage was not given to Mr. Erdogan, but to Turkey as a representative of the Second World War. It was a gift given to the Jews for the superior success of Turkish diplomats.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0447par0364	That's right, that's the second thing he said.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0365	Look, Mr. President, political blindness is one thing, opposition is another. The EC PARTI would have been shut down, and Mr. Sener would have been running for President, but when this plan was broken with the knowledge, with the wisdom, with the understanding, with the understanding of the nation, Mr. Sener suddenly became a communist. Then came the presidential elections, and the Turkish headscarf was on the agenda, Mr. Sener came out and said, "I never wanted my wife to cover her head." After that, he started a party, what did he get in a thousand, he marginalized his tongue, the people went on TV, they did all kinds of wrongs, but it didn't happen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0448par0367	Is it wrong to be on public TV?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0449par0368	Put him through, please, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0369	Mr. President, I'm going to say a few words to some CHP people who are clapping like crazy after their accusations. Look, when you don't keep your own plan at this party, no one can be sure that the person who resigns and enters the most opposite party will not sell the CHP at the first opportunity tomorrow and will not tell the CHP executives the same kinds of accusations. So, I say, places come and go, manliness, character lasts. No way... (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Each of our parties grows up one day, one day we get smaller, we come to power, we go to opposition, but after we die, it is our greatest honor to leave a sweet political memory for our children. I'd like to say that this conversation is unbecoming to Mr. Sener. And that if he has a few memories of himself, it's a complete waste. Mr. President, the other thing is that I think almost all CHP friends have been critical in just four or five words without ever reading the budget. (sing) Your palace budget (sing) (sing) Down with your palace (sing) (sing) (sing) Power (sing) (sing)
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0450par0373	I'll give you one last minute, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0374	Such accusations, allegations, budget-related claims, were flying in the air. Look, Mr. President, this budget is the budget of the entire nation. The biggest share of this budget is education, health, social services, that sort of thing. If this budget, as they say, had its cruel budget, the palace budget, this nation wouldn't have had the right to budget the same party for 17 years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0451par0377	He gave it to Hitler.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0378	This is a budget that expands budget education, improves health care, enhances investment, grows R&D, industry, everything that this country produces in every field. We have a shortage, but I don't think it's the right approach, Mr. President, to do business, to express it in the same language, with the same words of opposition, with the same five words. AK PARTY is no longer good to press charges of corruption, to show the same documents, so to speak. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Just one more minute, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0452par0382	Then you're putting him through, Mr. Turan. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0442par0384	We don't think it's right for those who don't see the $2 million phone bill, the Şişli, the Ataşehir, the residents to hold the same documents, the fake photos, the documents that Å gave us.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0453par0385	17 to 25 people who don't see it...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0454par0386	Those who don't see Ankara, who don't see them selling parcels, Mr. Turan. You sold a parcel.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0455par0387	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0456par0388	The crown of our heads is what you call the saray, the house of this nation, the house of the president of this nation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0454par0389	Those who don't see the Genghis, those who don't see the boxes, those who don't see the chocolate boxes, those who don't see the bag of clothes, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0455par0390	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0456par0391	We know Mr. Erdogan from the officers' homes, we know Mr. Erdoğan from Kasympaşa, not from the palace, but from the heart of the nation, Mr. President. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0457par0394	People who didn't see Reza Sarraf...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0458par0395	Thank you, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0459par0396	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0458par0397	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0459par0398	It's obvious that according to 69, it should be answered from the bench, but since the deputy chairman of the group has used his right to answer...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0460par0399	At the president's request.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0459par0400	...our Minister can answer where he is.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0461par0401	Did he serve in your ministry?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0462par0402	Mr. Sener, I promise you two minutes from your place. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0463par0405	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a moment ago, Mr. Group Vice President tried to say something that was unspeakable, very sophisticated. I'm returning to her every word and manner of insult.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0464par0408	You said the most unspeakable words.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0463par0409	Those words, such as the one that cannot go out in Konya, do not reflect the truth.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0465par0410	Less talk, less talk! I'm the one who knows you best.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0463par0411	During the election work, Ionya was in...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0465par0412	I know you best.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0466par0413	Mr. Lawmakers, please, let's not shout at each other, let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0463par0414	Streets, towns, towns, cities...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0466par0416	Just a moment, please, Mr. Sener. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we can't do anything by shouting at each other, and we can't understand each other. Please, Mr. Hatibe, I have promised you, Mr. Sener, to use his promise efficiently, to keep the silence. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Sener. I'll give you an extension.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0467par0420	Yes, I have completed the work of the streets, villages, towns, towns, towns, towns, and towns, with great calm, and the care and gratitude of the Italians. Sometimes things happen. In all of those cases, some AKP-led trolls had organised attacks (wow, wow, they didn't cross three or five people anywhere.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0468par0421	Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0469par0422	Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0467par0423	So I would like to point out that I don't think it's right for him to insult the kindness and kindness of the election work in Konya.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0468par0424	And let not Allah make any one to disbelieve in Him.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0467par0425	On the other hand, he didn't like what I said about the history of Islam, about the past of the AK PARTY, but I'm sorry, Mr. Congressman, but all of my words are true. I did not use the most bloody term in the history of Islam for the AK PARTI; you are the most sinful rule in the history of Islam, even in the history of Islam for a thousand and five hundred years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0470par0427	Go ahead, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0471par0428	Why is it going on, Mr. President? Is that how it works?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0470par0429	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0472par0430	Yeah...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0471par0431	Mr. President, you have to warn me!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0470par0432	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please allow the speaker to speak. I just gave your group vice president six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0471par0434	Warn the preacher, he has no right to insult him!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0470par0435	Wait a moment, please, a moment of patience, a moment of patience, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0473par0437	For one thing, none of the sentences the Congressman said to me were true.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0474par0438	Is yours true?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0473par0439	He misread all the sentences, misrecorded them, failed to follow them regularly; he tried to respond to his own group with sentences he accused me of lying, saying something to convince him, to show him. Once...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0475par0440	You're the one who did it! You're lying to yourself!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0476par0441	You've been Vice Prime Minister for five years! If it's a sin, you're a part of it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0477par0442	May Allah make no one like you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0443	Dear friends, Mr. Erdogan himself said that he was the Co-Chair of the Great Middle East Project.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0479par0445	It doesn't suit the Republican People's Party!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0480par0446	I'll give you one last minute, Mr. Sener, and complete. I'll give you a minute for the 2nd time, so please give your speech.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0447	You can't hear us anyway.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0480par0448	You speak, Mr. Sener. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0450	Whatever Mr. Erdogan did, whatever title he said he was given, I repeated it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0481par0451	He had a party, he had a size.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0452	One of the things I say is wrong. You can't say that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0482par0454	It's all wrong!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0483par0455	It's all wrong, it's all wrong!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0456	He said that he was the Co-Chair of the Grand Middle East Project in the Parliament group more than 30, and twice.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0484par0457	Where were you then?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0458	Now, if you'd like to take a vote, Mr. President will allow you to listen to him speak from his own mouth on YouTube.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0485par0459	Sener, what were you then, his assistant?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0486par0460	If that's a sin, if that's wrong, then you're a partner. What happened, then, you weren't saying, you weren't arguing?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0478par0461	No, Mr. Erdogan was the co-chair of the Great Middle East Project, but I had no title for the Great Middle East Project.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0487par0464	You can't be good for CHP!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0488par0465	Mr. Sener, please tie me up now, this is the last time I'll give you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0489par0467	Then there's nothing as funny as the Great Middle Eastern Project saying it's a concept used in a symposium within the United Nations.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0490par0469	Yeah, yeah!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0489par0470	In 2004, the G8 meeting was held in Sea Island, United States. The main topic of this G8 meeting was the Great Middle East Project. For the first time in this meeting, they announced the Great Middle East Project and...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0491par0471	Is this the first time you've heard of it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0489par0472	...and the President of the Grand Middle East Project as the Co-Chair of Democracy. I didn't announce it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0492par0473	You don't understand him!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0493par0474	What was your mission, then, what was your mission? Then why didn't you object? Shame on you, shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0489par0475	We objected, we objected. If I left in the 2007 elections, I left at the end of all these processes. No one objects stronger than me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0494par0478	Thank you, Mr. Sener.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0493par0479	Then where were you? You haven't been Vice Prime Minister for five years? Then why didn't you object? Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0495par0480	You're a traitor, you're a traitor!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0493par0481	When you lose the seat, you talk about the past here today.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0496par0482	I'll tell you where I've been for five years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0497par0483	I won't give you any more time, I've given you too much time, so please complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0496par0484	Where have I been for five years? I struggled to see if I could straighten it out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit05spe0497par0486	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0497par0001	I open the Sixth Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account The commission is in place. It was time for a speech on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. The first statement now belongs to Istanbul MP Izzet Ulvi Yölter. Here you go, Mr. Orender. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0498par0058	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your honorable committee. I give our best wishes to every beautiful people of our nation who are watching us on their screens right now. Since December 10, 2018, we have held talks with the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and with the 2017 Central Management Computation Computation Bill. Today is the 8th day of the budget process, and we are taking the 7th tour. In this scope, along with the Ministry of Industry and Technology, I will evaluate my party group over the budgets of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation, Turkish Academy of Sciences, the Institute of Turkish Standards, the Turkish Patent and the Marka Foundation. At this stage of my speech, I would like to express that we have found it in place by our national pride, and that the work of our Professor St. Sancar Hodja, who has written his name in gold letters in both history and national conscience, should be published by TÜBITAK himself as a reference to life and science. In addition, Turkey's Space Agency was established. The official newspaper of December 13, 2018 also published the presidential decree on the principles and foundations of the institution's duties and powers. Turkey turning its eyes to space, taking initiative to protect its national rights and interests in space, taking action, acting is meaningful, appropriate, admirable. Wherever the human horizon is pointing, our country needs to be there, to grasp it, of course, it's also the need for strategic vision. Turkey can't be stuck in a narrow space -- you know -- we can't hang around in vain anymore. The decisive steps inspired by great thoughts, high ideas, national breakthroughs, the abandonment of mind and emotion will surely tear through the veil of fog that lies in front of us. We have no choice but to overcome obstacles. We must have goals for a better world, a better future, a more peaceful society, a stronger and more obedient Turkey, and a lot of what we're going to do. In addition to being responsible, sensitive, prepared for a happy tomorrow, we have to work hard. He says that the heart is the sea, and the tongue is the shore. And that which is in the sea shall come to the shore. Those of our tongue shall be shed, and those of our heart shall be poured out. The National Movement Party has either decided to look the way it looks or to be what it looks like, the pride of the Turkish Nation of Islam is the only hope of the Turkish nation. On the 745th anniversary of the Shebiarus of Hazreti Mevlana, who described his death as the night of your death in a time when everyone was talking about separation, I remember him with respect and mercy. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers are living in the fourth industrial era of humanity, where cyber-physical systems are dominated during the present period of time that we have passed through, perhaps uncontrollably, in which we are drifting, at least that is the alleged conceptual framework and rhetoric. In contrast, technological leaps are, unfortunately, far, far ahead of moral and social advances. This is a serious problem and abnormalities that are dangerous to eat away at the existence of human beings, while their own will and faith measures are severely worn out. Humanity, hunter, gatherer, pass through agriculture, industry and knowledge societies into the fifth community stage, in other words the super-smart community stage; that is the trend at least for now. However, even though the super-smart community stage has been taken, there has been no decrease in the dire problems that have been encountered, although these problems have increased and become more common. On one hand, intellectual marketing of the fourth industrial era is being done, but on the other hand, we all know that there are problems and disasters that will search even primitive periods with wax; in fact, this is a complete contradiction, a complete tragedy. The development of technology is a handicap that needs to be overcome, to outstrip social and moral values. Technology is for human beings; of course, it has to be consistent with social tissue, with moral measures. Without a doubt, access to the information economy, the information society, the inter-industrial social stages is one-on-one and directly related to the technological stage and processes. Both economic and political and social issues of technological innovation and development-deprived societies are becoming increasingly deep and heavy daily. However, it will take a lot of time to overcome social facts, historical relics, and technological innovations that are incompatible with the national acquish, and it will lead to serious problems that will be very difficult to overcome. In fact, given the depression that we've experienced since Tanzimat, we will be able to see the result that each of these technology's dilemmas has revealed. Turkey is experiencing a little or more, adequate or inadequate technological transformation, but we still have serious variants in the national innovation system, which need to be resolved in the production of high-profit products, and our exports with advanced technology are weak. It is urgent to be open to new ideas, to support RD investments, to understand the demands and needs for the information economy and to respond in order and immediately, is an acute need. Turkey is not in a position to waste time developing new products and technology with high added value. In 2003, the exports of high-tech products, 6.5% in 2003, were reduced to 3.6 per cent in 2017 and 3.3 per cent during January-October this year. The average share of high-tech products in industrial exports worldwide is around 24 per cent, and the share of above-center technology products is around 36%. As it turns out, there's a lot more we can do in this framework as a country, a lot more distance we can take. In the third quarter of this year, our GDP increased by 1.6 per cent compared to the same period last year. Given the economic operations we've been exposed to, it's not really right to underestimate, neglect, ignore growth of 1.6 per cent in the third quarter of July, August, September, when you take into account the usual hostile economic attacks. The Turkish economy, praise be to God, has broken the siege. The nationalist Movement Party was responsible and, according to its national opposition, did its due in those busy months, and stood firm alongside its nation, its country, and its state. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] The shocks of the wolf, thank God, are overcome; the exchange fire is extinguished, extinguished; the period of recovery has been passed, and passed. That goes for all of us, we're in the same boat, we're in the same trench. There is no other Turkey, no other Turkish nation. The rate of exports is 13.6% in this third quarter, compared to the same period of the previous year. Why did I say that? Because it was exports that contributed the most to growth. The impact of industry on economic growth remained 0.3 per cent. Besides, industrial production declined 2.7% in September 2018. Growth in the manufacturing industry was 0.6%. Surely this is a low thing and a poor thing; and most surely it is a matter that is obligatory. The GDP share of the manufacturing industry was 19.2 per cent in 2002, while the rate was reduced to 15 per cent. With a partial increase in recent years, it has reached 17.6 per cent, but to us, that is not enough. The picture we're looking at is not very bright, very promising for our industry, for our economy, for our country. Most imports are made in basic and intermediary goods. In the sectors where these goods are produced, large-scale investments are needed. Turkey is strong enough, united, by force, by solidarity and co-operation, to ward off the problems of the economy in a national mobilization, the issues of the accumulation, and the games and attacks of the economic shooters coming at us. My dear friends, I'm running out of time, and actually, there's something important I'd like to touch down on. Today, when we look at each industrialized country, we see a common feature. The fundamental common feature of industrialized countries is the width, depth and size of problem solving cultures. Industrialised countries -- so-called developed countries, in our opinion -- have always been able to resolve with compromise every chronic issue facing them or occupying their communities and countries. I wonder, why can't we solve our problems permanently and radically? Because we're behind in the industrialization process, not the desired target. So we couldn't put the problem-solving culture in place, institutionalize it. Now, my dear friends, while we're discussing the budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology, I'd like to talk about the lack of industrialization, of the problem-resolving culture of the inability to industrialize, of the problem-solving culture, for example, that exists in Sküdar Yavuzturk neighborhood. We have a large number of Istanbul MPs here. We've had zoning problems in Yavuzturk neighborhood, and they've been talking about it for years, but we can't seem to solve this zoning problem in Yavuzturk neighborhood. Next to Yavuzturk neighborhood and Yavuzturk, the zoning problem continues to rise in 15 neighborhoods of Skopjedar. Our people, our citizens are restless, unsatisfactory. In Yavuzturk neighbourhood, which is described as the area of the Bullisher's Law, the nail cannot be nailed, so to speak. Yavuzturk neighborhood is waiting for a hand to reach out. We've made our proposal for the law on this issue, that our request from the Gazi Parliament, that the problems of the other neighborhoods be solved -- which have been affected by the Bosporus Law and the Nazi plan -- are affected by the Köküdar Yavuzturk neighbourhood and the Yavuzturk neighbourhood. Another problem is Istanbul's Sandzaktepe Fatih District. Our dear brother, our friend, the Mayor of the Conqueror Quarter, has sent us a message, Sadik Belkis. Sadık Bey shared with us that some of the owners of the dwellings on an average of 157 acres in the region of Sandzaktepe Fatih neighborhood have had serious problems. I beg you, Mr. Secretary, if they take it in their notes, we'll be very happy because Istanbul is a very important district. We have 19 neighborhoods here. 19 of our 19 neighborhoods have separate problems. We hoped they'd have some kind of peace of development, but still problems -- who, by the city's hands -- continue to increase. We want to solve the problems of Istanbul's Sandzaktepe district, the Fatih District, Veysel Karani neighbourhood and other sites, and we want their victims resolved. We desire the solution to the problems of our neighborhoods, including Kengelköy, Küçüksu, Kuleli, Kandilli, Bahçelievler, Mehmet Akif Ersoy, my dear friends. When we were talking about the burdens of the industrial, we made it clear that problem-solving culture does not exist. We can't solve the problem. So we talked about zoning problems, and we expressed them. My dear friends, thanks to yesterday, our MP, Mr. Cemal Enginyurt, Gaziantep MP Mr. Sermet Atay, has given the Minister our thoughts, our expectations for expert sergeants, as the budget of the Ministry of Interior was being discussed on this stand and on their location yesterday. Right? Yes, thanks to you, Mr. Home Secretary has promised to solve the problems of our veteran gendarmes, and I couldn't, so I heard from our congressman, and then I got the speeches in his address. Now today we've been able to tell our Minister of National Defense -- if he were here, we'd have a chance to tell him directly, but our Deputy Minister here, he'll definitely share it with him -- we've passed on our request for the staff issue of our senior sergeants, and we've talked about it over and over again. There's our congressman, Mr. Secretary of Defense, who has promised to give the staff to the special sergeants. (Applause from the MHP desks) Did Mr. Home Secretary also promise that the 3,600 additional indicator requests of our veteran gendarmes -- this is also valid for senior sergeants -- that the one-year term in their schools should be counted as a verb service, and the third one to be promoted to a rank of 45? He did. I urge you, our special sergeants, our veteran gendarmes, to do as we must, to meet these brothers, these heroes, their needs, their desires, their wishes, the Veterans Assembly, and to show us the ability to solve chronic problems. We still think we've taken important steps, significant distances in industrialization, and we've taken them. To show that, we have to prove how active, dynamic our problem-solving culture is. Besides, we can't do what we have to do, what we can't do, what we can't do to specialist sergeants, what we can't do. And they are the fearless guardians of the nation. They are Turkey's heroes who keep their eyes on the bud. If we can reach out to our expert sergeants to address the problems caused by Law 3269 -- Mr. Minister, isn't that right -- we won't have done much, but we'll give them their rights. That's what our special sergeants expect, my dear friends. And here I am, underlining our Minister of National Defense -- I see our Home Secretary's promises as a matter of political dignity and I share them with you. I believe that the Turkish nation, which will enter the east of Fırat, with the greatest assurances of the Turkish army, will be our expert sergeants, and our veteran gendarmes, will be happy to continue their mission with the hopeful and good news that will come out of here. While I hereby end my words, I wish the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019 to be good; I hope that the budget we will accept in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will bring blessings to our country, to our nation, to our state, from God. I salute your honorable committee. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0499par0087	Thank you, Mr. Orender. In order, it belongs to Şanlıurfa MP İbrahim Özyavuz. Here you go, Mr. Self-Subject. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0500par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on behalf of the GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman's budget as part of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. I salute the Veteran Assembly, my Şanliurfa people and the great Turkish nation with respect, tolerance and conversation. Mr. President, the president of the GAP Administration has been established to quickly develop and carry out plans, infrastructure, registration, housing, industry, mining, agriculture, energy transport, and other services to do or do the necessary measures to improve the education of the locals, or to remove them, to coordinate between institutions and institutions. The Southeast Anatolia Project (GAP), which has been brought to life by its philosophy, is the most comprehensive and costly project in our republic's history, and is the most effective one of its regional development plans and programmes so far. The GAP is a major project that has passed on to international literature with its integrated regional development approach and sustainable human development philosophy and its brand value. Its main goals are to assess the resources of the Southeastern Anatolian region, improve the income level and quality of life among the locals, improve the difference in development between this region and other regions, increase productivity and employment opportunities in the rural area, and contribute to national economic development and social stability goals. The target for employment is 3,800,000 people. 22 dams for energy production, 19 hydropower plants, and 1.8 million hectares of irrigation investments were also planned. The total power of the project's power plants is 7.476 megawatts, envisioning the production of 26 billion kilowatts per year. The Plain of Harran, which includes part of the settlement of my district of Şanlıurfa, has about 30km to the east-west, and 50km to the north-south. On this plain, agriculture was made only by underground water from drilling wells before watering surface water. The water of the Ataturk Dam was first poured through the Sanlıurfa tunnels to the Plains of Harran in April 1995 and watered about 30,000 hectares in the first place. As the irrigation projects are completed, the amount of land watered with surface water has also increased and has now reached about 150,000 hectares - 1.5 million acres. Starting in 1995, a large part of the Plains of Harran began to water under the GAP, causing production and revenue growth in the agricultural product pattern, in its diversity. For that, I would like to thank our government, our governments and their rulers who worked on this project on behalf of the people of the Plains of Harran, the people of Akchakale and the city of Turkmen, Şanliurfa. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to bring up a few of our Sanliurfa's problems in many areas and a few of them with solution proposals. One of the most important is seasonal agricultural workers with very high employment. My constituency is, however, a scale of education, culture and work in other provinces, due to its geographical location and potential in the country's economy, as well as the city of the prophets, Şanliurfa. For this reason, work shortages are under way, and employment opportunities for citizens are limited by pressure from political adults in state institutions. Therefore, our brothers, whose face is sunburned, their hands callous, and their heart burning, are forced to go as workers in various parts of our land in the city of Şanliurfa. In a manner of speaking, my fellow workers make their homes and their homes, and with dignity and dignity, they take their bread out of stone. Although the number is not clear in our country, there are approximately 740,000 temporary farm workers. About 130,000 of these numbers are children's workers. These figures show that seasonal workers migrated to various parts of our homeland along with family members during business hours. According to seasonal conditions in the areas where they go, temporary housing needs, living spaces, social utilities and rights must be provided by the state in order to maintain their lives by the means required by the state, if not necessarily such as health, safety, religious needs. Although the current institution is governorates, subsidiaries such as the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Agriculture, agricultural employers and temporary building management companies should be able to take care of our brothers, whom we refer to as "employee workers" by the state's hands, working with the governorates. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers may be seen as a simple issue to consider as a labor-employee relationship in general, but there are nearly 1 million seasonal workers in our country who are far from home and home, untreated, and therefore under the standards of living quality, and their problems need to be resolved. If this structure isn't controlled, it's a lost labor force and gain for the economy. If they are not expected to study in their fields and to increase the quality of their work, the decline of agriculture would be a major damage to the country's economy. The guarantee of our future, which has been forced to work as seasonal workers with their families, is that our children are falling behind in their education, which is a great evil to both our children and our future. Again, uncontrollable and unhealthy habitats will put our seasonal workers at risk for diseases and infectious diseases that could result from the labor of our workers. In this context, workforce workers who operate uncontrollably may suffer from their interconnection with our state if they do not see the government's support and protection as their primary equipment for housing, electricity, water, and personal needs. When we consider our country's political field to be a mess, we need to resolve the problems of our fellow workers quickly. In essence, these brothers and sisters, who are defined as seasonal workers, are valuable citizens who are bound by their state and nation, fighting for their hard work, far from different elements, a large economic movement, domestic immigration movement and capital structure. From Africa to the Middle East, the Republic of Turkey, which extends its hand to the Caucasus and compassion from the Balkans, has the power and the power to maintain it by making arrangements for our seasonal workers, who have suffered awkwardness in their own home country, and in the important issues that I consider above. Mr. President, the precious MPs, the power outages in Şanliurfa have been troubling our citizens from all sides. After the privatisation of energy distribution institutions and leaving the state code, the attitude of companies that receive the tender turns our citizens against the state and turn them against the state. Farmers who pay electricity by 10/12/2018 receive 65 per cent state support, while those who don't invest receive 55 per cent support. Even the banks, described as legal loan sharks, should call the farmer's debt uninterested due to the failure of the cotton and corn harvest due to recent rainfalls, a company that chokes and ruins the farmer's wretched day. Until the earliest 28/02/2019, the farmer must be given time and I would like to call on the Ministry of Energy and therefore the Government to call on this company: What do you expect to say to this company to stop? Let us save our farmer together from the hand of TEDAH. In this context, the Ministry of Energy must warn these companies and prevent our people from being victimized. If it's in the best interest of our citizens, I would like to request and recommend that the energy privatisation contracts be reconsidered and vetted if necessary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0501par0102	Complete, Mr. Self-fulfilling. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0500par0104	The infrastructure problems of our glory still exist, continue. It is the problems that will be solved by the more rational and fair treatment of municipalities in this regard. In our cities and rural neighborhoods, municipalities should make their daily lives easier without partying, partying, partying. Despite all commitments over the years, Akchakale-Harran, Ceylanpınar-Makmezli-Acekkale, Harran-Sukaip City-Halfeti, Halfeti-Aircuk, Viranşehir-Ceylanpınar roads and intersections have not been built. These problems need to be resolved as soon as possible; a co-ordination must be established between the City of Şanlıurfa and the District Directorate of the Highways. The irrigation units have been shut down and transferred to the DSI Regional Directorate, but the personnel working in the units have yet to be restored to status. The problems of these brothers must be resolved quickly and the authorities must step in. Dear friends, despite the full resistance of our friends from the National Movement Party in the Agriculture Commission, you have misinformed the President and shut down the troops. You said it was closed for the benefit of the farmer, but the farmer who paid 40 cents a month earlier pays 85 cents this year.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0502par0108	Put him through, please, Mr. Self-Subject.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0500par0109	What changed in one year and made over 100 percent difference? It was a mistake for me to shut down the irrigation troops. If we try to shut down every institution we can't control, there will be no institutions left in Turkey. As part of the TYP project, which you started to compensate for the personnel deficit in public institutions and institutions, you are also expected to make arrangements. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I believe this country is ours, and the people who live on this land are all ours, and they deserve all the services. On this occasion, I wish our budget to be good for our country, for our nation, for the Veteran Assembly and for the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0503par0113	Thank you, Mr. Self-Subject. In order to speak, it is incumbent Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboğlu. Here you go, Mr Vahaboglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0504par0118	Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I have made a pledge on the national Defense Ministry budget of 2019 fiscal years. On this occasion, I salute our martyrs, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, and his comrades in arms, and our veterans, who are forever engaged in mercy, gratitude and gratitude, still serving in Syria, and in the fight against terrorism, our heroic soldiers and police, our security guards, all of our surviving veterans, our duty malaises, and our Veterans. You can't make history when you remove history from the history of Asia, Russia, the Caucasus, the Balkans, Europe, the Middle East, North Africa, and the Arabian Peninsula. You can't talk about right, justice, justice, tolerance, respect of the subject, unless you're a Turk. The important part of this glorious history is written and epicized by the Turkish soldier. Asia Minor is not a geography where the weak can survive under the skirts of others, the lamest, the poor beggars who beg for protection and protection, the pawns in the battle of power. As state and nation, we have brought to this geography rights, law, justice, tolerance, brotherhood, and we have survived by paying the highest price ever. From now on, we will carry out the duty that history has given us, and we will make the Republic of Turkey live forever. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers, traditional and modern domination theories say that Turkish and Turkish dorms are a geography that needs to be established, if that is not possible, to be controlled. Turkey is a country in which those who calculate our region or Turkish-Islam geography are either trying to take it or take it against it. Turkey was sometimes targeted directly, sometimes indirectly, because of this feature. As it is known, land demands of the Aegean Islands and Cyprus are on the agenda of claims of rights over our cross-border waters. Our country's ethnic and religious structure is constantly being tampered with. Global power centres and regional players have accelerated their strategies and tactical attacks on the eastern Mediterranean region and Cyprus. Cyprus, Syria, Lebanon, Israel, Egypt have declared its exclusive economic regions; there is a Greek Cypriot government and Greece that operates in the region, ignoring both Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Greece wants to trap Turkey in a narrow area in the Aegean, bringing the six miles of landwaters of islands under its sovereignty to 12 miles [12 km]. The power that drives Greece to this recklessness is support from the countries of the United States and the European Union. In the context of the problems discussed, the protection of our rights on the Aegean islands, the protection of the rights and interests of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Turkey's garantism should remain undisputed and a guarantee of peace and security. Our north continues to gain the capacity for military tensions and hot conflicts at any moment. NATO's spread in the Baltic and Black Sea countries in support of the global policies of the United States of America has made the Black Sea a risky area for Russia to occupy and inherit some of Ossetia (Ossetya) and later the Crimean. The border is a country that exports terror to Turkey directly or covertly from neighbouring countries, except Bulgaria, Georgia and Nahçivan. In addition to the immigration of Iraq to our country between 1988 and 1993, there have been about 5 million unregistered migrations from Syria since 2011. There are over 6.5 million asylum seekers in our country, including Afghan, Tajik, Pakistani, Iranian, African-Americans, and around 70,000 Georgian citizens living as fugitives and using our country as transit routes. We believe it's time for this to be considered a spectacular threat to our demographic structure and therefore to our national security as guests. Progress in our region and especially in Iraq and Syria is not progressing in its natural course. No one, especially the United States and Russia, is found in this area for nothing. None of them have Turkey's security in their accounts, so there's no need to live in a fantasy world. Two global giant countries here are setting up games and laying the foundation of the future. It is not in vain for the United States to declare and arm the Syrian extension of the PKK to be friendly and land power. In addition to the United States, it would be naive to say that Russia, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Greece, even Saudi Arabia had respect for Turkey's territorial integrity. In short, the threat is to Turkey's territorial integrity. The terrorist groups that the U.S. gave weapons to, even trained, and managed are waiting for the day and instruction that weapons will be directed to Turkey. Of course, whoever tries to do that has to figure out what's going to happen to him. Our state must continue to use both diplomatic and military rights to defend itself, until we can end any risk, assault, and especially the threat of terrorism from our southern neighbours. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in order to fight fully and effectively against all threats, including terrorism, we need international cooperation and solidarity to be as clear, clear and political as our stance and responses as a state should be. We always need a strong, moral army so that we don't back down and we can be deterrents. To that end, it should not be forgotten that the most powerful weapon is a man with moral power and well - trained man who can sacrifice himself to his country. No matter what anyone says, two or three months after a failed coup attempt, there is no second army in the world capable of a successful cross-border operation. So let's not play games on the staff of our army, let's not let our soldiers at the front worry about tomorrow. Let us not forget that only a soldier with a high morale can crown war with victory. To survive in this geography, our power of land, sea and air must always be strong and deterrent. Our enemies inside and outside should never doubt the determination of the Republic of Turkey and not even think about testing its power. With the immediate threats I'm trying to make, it's unacceptable to cut back on defensive spending with populist approaches. The Turkish Armed Forces should not be left behind from the tools and equipment of global quarterback countries, nor should any country or alliance be allowed to determine the weapons, ammunition and instruments that we should have for our stay and play the sole supplier. Mr. President, good lawmakers, our army needs good military and civilian personnel in every area. The cost should not be covered in personnel training. In today's terms, it is also important to have these personnel as well as to raise the needed personnel. Therefore, military personnel must be saved from financial hardship and brought to the proper level of dignity. After the coup attempt, about 15,000 personnel were expelled, military schools closed down, over 10,000 young people with no involvement in the coup attempt were abandoned by the Supreme Code 669. Minister -- you have all the resources of the state -- a significant portion of these children were with their families, they had nothing to do with the coup. These kids can be investigated by the government, and we can re-elect those who are not connected to any group in them. We expect you to step forward on this, and we see pressure from their families all the time. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Military service is not just a profession, it's a way of life. For this reason, the institutions that provide health care for the soldier who fights the schools where military personnel are trained are of extraordinary importance. Military education and health care systems have been corrupted. The Republic of Turkey must learn a lesson from what has happened and take the necessary measures as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0505par0131	Go ahead, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0504par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. Don't forget, civilians make war decisions, but soldiers lose their lives. Therefore, the Turkish Armed Forces should not be faced with a result of professionalisation, mandatory military service, military time. The way to find it must also be accepted and found in the conscience of the Turkish nation. The next of kin of our martyrs, our veterans, and our disability, must have the same material and social rights, regardless of the distinction between soldiers and civilians. It is imperative that Turkish Armed Forces' determination and determination in national defence be supported in other areas as well. The armed struggle must be fully supported, especially in public diplomacy. The Turkish Armed Forces must feel the support of our Veteran Assembly and political authority behind them at any moment.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0505par0135	Put him through, please, Mr. Vahaboglu.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0504par0136	The coupgers, the junteers, and our army must not be confused. Let us not forget that there is no other force to replace our army. In the final sentence, the Ministry of National Defense wishes our budget to be good, my respects to the High Council, the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0505par0139	Thank you, Mr. Vahaboglu. It is now time for Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın to speak. Here you are, Mr. Aydın. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0506par0144	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, the valued representatives of the administration, I'm here to discuss the Foreign Affairs budget on behalf of the National Movement Party. At this time of night, I salute you all. Honourable lawmakers, we're discussing the State Department budget, an important part of our country's politics. In the words of a late Turkish elder, the Turkish nation, who made a difficult geography, such as Anatolia, a transit route, a fate for itself, can't imagine, can't organize, can't enforce, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't, can't. If we stay at this kind of out-of-the-out-out-out-of-the-out-out-of-the-out-out-of-the-out-out-of-the-out-out-of-out-of-the-way, if we're in a dilemma, that's what we're going to experience again. This is the expression of determination. It means peace in yurtta, peace in jihanda. The history that is not learned repeats itself. I want to talk about a brief historical anecdote in action from the proverb. In the early 20th century, a number of powerful forces, imperial forces, called the sick man, placed our government on the autopsy table, shredded it, and tried to lure it into this great nation, under the name Sevr. The noble resurrection of Lausanne, which ripped apart this shroud that had been laid upon him, has disappointed the imperialists greatly. They used the same phrases in their inner politics as they explained this wretched situation, and they attribute their achievements in diplomacy to it. They said, "Sir, the Turks have rejected civilization, so there's nothing to do." They said, "There's nothing to do with it, so they tried to fabricate a cover for their defeat." With that day's defeat psychology and lameness, it has not yet been finished. Even after a hundred years, those who say, have updated crypto tongs today and have begun to dig up unfinished accounts through the ethnic and religious structure of Anatolia, which is rich and powerful. They can do it yesterday in Iraq, Syria, and today in Yemen, but Turkey, like a hundred years ago, has the determination and determination of the Turkish nation to break the accounts they had, to leave in their enthusiasm. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Congressmans, reminding us that we will never be bitten from the same place, I would like to say to those who are now critical of the security practices of the Republic of Turkey's state and rising defence spending: We are aware of the risks and threats that have been made against us in the three seas around us, we cannot ignore them; we are aware of the struggle of terror within our own country by infiltrating both the country and the country; we are aware of their plans to use the language of diplomacy and its rules as a weapon for them on international platforms with third legs. In light of all these awarenesss, in other words, in an environment where the world enters economic, cyber and nuclear war air, and there's a West trying to increase the relative defence spending and take security measures, and it's the worst thing to expect from us in Turkey. Cicili, we do our own work for those who ask why our necks are thick, without heeding pleasant expressions of evil. We have to continue to be strong and deterrent at the intersection of these hyenas. Congressmans, we can't afford to make a big deal of progress in an open and veiled world conjunctive of a multipolar power struggle. It is not possible for us to sing democracy, peace, freedom songs in the spring air, while the West is in serious competition, while the United States has set aside a $750 billion defence budget, which is equivalent to the world defence budget, because of the Russian Federation and China, where they talk about the possibility of war, and yet again a NATO-threatening effort to create its own defence power in the face of threat. The consequences of those who feel that way are found in Libya, Iraq, Syria. By the way, speaking of Libya, Syria, Iraq, since morning, I've been convinced that the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has had an ancient state tradition, the final ring of the structure of the period of time, has been underestimated, and in this context, a number of sociological massacres have been committed, and really, we are not -- as they had previously expressed -- as Libya or Iraq -- as the tribal state, tent state, as the slum state. Thus, the state of the Republic of Turkey is the name of a structure that has a long tradition of ancient states, a unique structure, language, culture, and a collection of centuries. If it is to be compared in a sociological way, it should be compared to the great states of the West with a powerful, thousands of years of history. Let me explain it to you in a concrete example. Yeah, like Germany, like France, England, even though it's much later than that, even though it's prefabricated, we need to be compared in a large and truly proportional way to states like the United States. Around here, yes, there are many people of different ethnicities, but the official and educational language is English, German, French. These are not sociological cases to be explained in Syrian, Iraqi, such as these, who take it for granted, who take it for granted. In Turkey, the language of education is Turkish; it is the representative of unity, support, and integrity forever. [[A round of applause from MHP, AK PARTY and GOOD PARTY]] Honourable MPs, no matter what anyone may say, the Republic of Turkey is the last ring of an ancient tradition of thousands of years, and the most important character of all is Gazi Mustafa Kemal. As Pasha put it, our character is freedom and independence. (Applause from MHP rows) So the most important feature of the Turkish nation, the state of the Republic of Turkey, is freedom and independence. So, as the Nationalist Movement Party, with no exception to this important character, in the exact expression of our president, we're going to do the analogy, the analogy, the metaphor is said for beautiful things. I'm going to make a metaphor, a metaphor. It has a two-headed Seljuk eagle. That two-headed Seljuk eagle is also a local symbol of our Erzurum, a member of parliament. One of the two heads of that eagle looks east, one facing west, one facing right, and one facing left. Here is a stance that aims to cross the Western and Islamic landscape, in the context of the state's state's state's last state tradition, in the context of our ancient country's foreign affairs, just as Mustafa Kemal put it, in the context of the country's long term, where there is an oppressed nation, the loyal Turk, where he says, "Where are you?" So, this is the equestrian structure, our position in the foreign affairs; that's where we have to think. On this occasion, especially today, from Jerusalem to East Turkistan, from East Turkistan to the Crimean Tatars, from there to the tip of the Balkans, to the tip of Africa, wherever there is a oppressed, strange guru, wherever there is a request, as a proud member of an ancient state, I say to them as a member of 80 million today, we are ready to open our hands, our hands, our arms, our resources, our resources, through our principles, through the ministry, as it was yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0507par0156	You have your word, Mr. Aydın. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0506par0158	We'll never... yeah, we'll look at the West in one way, we've got this effort, we've focused on the better goals, shoulder to shoulder, with the infected civilizations, but let no one think we're helpless, thank God this eagle has another head. That's the head... here's the concrete example that we laid down in 1992 -- Turkish-speaking countries -- the Parliamentary Assembly of Parliament, which is TURKPA, is growing, its property is growing, and its help is improving. Thank God we're going from four countries to five countries. So, basically, as we say in many geography, we are no longer a nation, we are not two states; after this we are a nation, we are many states. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] I hereby wish that the budget would be a blessing to our State Department, to our Defense Department. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0508par0163	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Kayseri MP İsmail Özdemir is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0509par0168	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budget of our State Department. I salute our Veteran Assembly. The year 2018 led to a number of challenging events and topics in foreign policy. In the 8th year of the civil war in Syria, attempts to reach a solution under the United Nations still have not yielded results. The fact that the Geneva process continues to continue for various reasons has caused the problem to deepen, and our country to be affected by what has happened. However, with regard to the Syrian crisis, the trilateral mechanism that we have carried out along with Iran and Russia has undoubtedly had a supporting effect on Astana and Sochi. In the same way, our country, which has benefited from these mechanisms, has assessed its rights from international law with its own national security perspective, successfully implementing the Firat Shield and Operation Olive Branch, ending the existence of PKK/PYD and ISIS terrorist organisations in areas related to it. Our hope is that these efforts will also result in reasonable means and initiatives, particularly Menbic, in the east of the Fırat River. Wherever there is a threat and a threat to our country, it must be destroyed at its source. However, it was not only Syria that we had a problem with, but also the Black Sea was the subject of foreign policy that affected the national security of our country, as it was seen from the crisis between the Aegean, the Eastern Mediterranean, Iraq and Ukraine and Russia. The unilateral embargo initiatives, which were not part of the United Nations for Iran and launched in this framework, have also caused internal turmoil in this country, which is alleged to be based on economic problems. It is clear that instability is intended to be contained in almost all Geography described as our country's mujavir area. In these circumstances, it is of great importance that we, along with our region, properly evaluate what is really going on in the rest of the world. It is clear that hundreds of years of global systems and international witnessing habits have begun to show significant breaking and changing. We're experiencing a more protective and security-based period where traditional alliances are being questioned and even terminated, where new ones are being tried to build. For the establishment of the current world order, the Westphalia Order, which some consider to be the starting point, has faced new challenges in the present day. The Western-based global superiority process is a face of the obvious conditions in which representatives of the same segments have begun to change the structure that exists in both their bodies and between them and the problems they face on the other side. The other percentage is the effort to create promises and charms for segments who want to direct the global system in the format they want and target. The struggle for power and superiority, especially in countries that are directly targeted in the economic field, has more to do with the conflict and civil war conditions in the general Islamic geography, such as Asia, Africa, the Middle East. Yemen, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine, Libya, Afghanistan. Our first qiblah, Jerusalem, is endeavored to be accepted as Israel's so-called capital, regardless of whether it leads to illegal acts and new conflicts. However, Turkishmen's rights are being seized in Syria and Iraq, and our descendants are being victimised in their homes in Crimea, while East Turkistan has a complete measure. The Balkans and West Thrace are still bleeding wounds, and Greece, in particular, insists on acting outside the law here, and persecution of our relatives. With a sense of urgency and new ideas in Cyprus, traps and countermeasures are still wanted. Under these circumstances, the only realistic and practical solution on the island should not be forgotten that a two-zoned, two-nation and two-state partnership has passed away. Cyprus is our national cause and honor. While all of this is happening, it is clear that in the global plane, the United States is trying to use sanctions as a weapon to protect its superiority and to harm the countries it sees as rivals. There's no doubt that another weapon is a terrorist organization. The European Union, Russia, Iran, North Korea and China are the targets of the United States of America, even with different reasons and claims at the same time. When we look at the effects of the problem, it is clear that these recessions are not only among concerned countries, but are affecting the other parties, even the entire global system. This effect fosters instability and, moreover, speeds up the destruction process of what some call proper structure. Western-based power is increasingly spreading towards Asia, and new regional forces are bringing out leadership. On the other hand, the project, which he called the Constabulary and Road Initiative, shows that for the first time in his history, it has a purpose to spread and direct world politics with such an impact. It has been noted that some environments view this process as a world ad where the order of Vestphalia will no longer be valid. The process between the United States and China continues with Washington withdrawing from the Trans-Pacific Agreement and mutually putting additional taxes on many products. Under these circumstances, the European Union, an important part of the Western Bloc, has begun to change its own security perception. Britain's departure from the EU has also begun to expose the pains of the process. The project to establish a joint European army with the same timing as all of this has been implemented. According to Europe, the United States, along with Russia and China, was declared on the same side of the threat perception. Strangely, the street movements that have now spread from France to the Netherlands and Belgium began immediately after that. Eastern Europe and the Baltic region are experiencing intense military activity. It's unclear at this point how much more unregistered chaos will continue, where it will stand, and who will win from this process. This uncertainty, of course, is feeding other crises, causing increased defence investments and expenditures, which unfortunately leads to efforts to drag the world into the climate of depression. Given Turkey's environment, it would be safe to say that crisis, conflict and chaos are beginning to spread. What happened is that Turkey is affected by its reflections and consequences, even though it does not occur directly as a country as a result of our intervention. There is a need, of course, for a strategy that does not conflict with our principles and national ideals and values in the face of ongoing problems around us, but, more importantly, shows our potential correctly. There will be no such thing as our historical responsibilities as well as a passive stand for challenges, as we face security problems today, and a course such as wait, see, take a stand. The movement of fault lines in almost every region brings to mind the fact that countries that are unable to make the right moves at the right time and in the right place will suffer greater losses in the not-too-too-too-too-too-too-too-long future. The main priority for Turkey is to establish and sustain the internal and external conditions that are stable in every way. Otherwise, it is clear that every instability triggers another problem, which fuels local problems, even conflicts, and leads to major problems until it comes to an open intervention between other regional and global forces. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, we must be fully aware of the non-political but also the religious, economic and especially energy-based interest accounts in the issues and problems that have been seen in international relations. Because we have to remember that whatever the environment is intended for, Turkey is a target country. Turkey, however, is the last bastion to stand against the entire evil front. And we are the only hope of the oppressed. The stance that the Turkish nation and Turkey will display in the present day is carefully monitored in every view of the environment. In these circumstances, we have no choice but to succeed. I sincerely want to say that we are all going through a time when we have a much greater responsibility to the nation and history than we have ever thought possible. Since the current global order is being questioned, since many environments are motivated to create new conditions, then we will create a new world, where we will take our place, where we will, and we must demonstrate our will and determination in every way.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0510par0180	Complete, Mr. Özdemir. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0509par0182	It is clear that if you do not have a claim to your potential in these devastating circumstances, it will be equally difficult to survive. Of course, the state of the Republic of Turkey will always have a share. We have faith and loyalty to that. We need to maintain our Ankara-based perspective as we evaluate what happened. We need to establish diplomatic action and movement in all state mechanisms, and we need to be able to pursue our own thesis, not others, but the rest of the world to accept our own agenda. We need to increase diplomatic steps in terms of the fight against PKK, PYD, ISIS and CHP terrorist organisations with absolute certainty. We need to follow a way that is self-sufficient in every field and that reflects its righteousness in every field. For our vision of 2023, 2053 and 2071, which will lead our country to regional leadership, then to its global leadership goal, and ultimately to the superpower position, we need to get it right now. Finally, we must act with responsibility to further mature our democratic culture and entrust our great national goals to 2123 generations.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0510par0185	Tie your words, Mr. Özdemir, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0509par0186	As I hereby end my remarks, I wish the State Department's 2019 budget to be a blessing, and again, to all foreign personnel serving in our diplomatic diplomatic diplomatic diplomatic missions, I express our support for the budget of our Foreign Ministry, and I salute our Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0510par0188	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. İstanbul MP Cemal Cetin is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Cetin. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0511par0193	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party for Action on the budget of the President of the European Union. I hereby salute your high council with the utmost respect. Turkey has applied for partnership with the European Economic Community in 1959, the Ankara Agreement has been signed in 1963, Turkey's official candidacy status has been recognised in 1999, membership talks began in 2005. As the negotiation process continues in an ups and downs and downs, it is now at the point of obstruction. Membership in the EU has been considered one of our country's most important strategic goals by all governments established after Turkey's membership application. Turkey has made great efforts to become a member of the European Union. However, the European Union has always shown a hypocritical attitude towards Turkey and has been in a position to block Turkey's accession to the European Union with lame excuses. Although Turkey is not officially an EU member, it is actually within the European Union with more than 5 million people living within the borders of the European Union. At this point, we also need to demonstrate the anti-democracy and unlawful, anti-human rights attitude to our people, over 5 million living within their borders, who have always tried to give Turkey an unfair human rights, democracy and law lesson. European Turkicism has been repeatedly wronged by various regulations and practices based on inequality and discrimination in European countries, facing foreign hostility. Foreign hostility is seen not only in the streets, but in schools, public offices, and in all parts of society. Most of the time, politicians are fueling alien hostility that already exists by making immigrants political material. They have opened space for Turkey's unity and unity and have ignored terrorist attacks on both Turkey and the European Turkic. They did not take the necessary measures to prevent terrorist attacks by foreign enemies and PKK terrorists against Turkish associations, Turkish tradesmen, mosques and citizens on the street. As they did not take precautions, the attackers were encouraged by an attitude that justified the attackers, and the attackers tried to be digested by describing them as the Turkish extremities of Turkey, such as the Turkish extremism, the internationalist/fascist/, the extremists who had been attacked. On July 15th, they had taken on members of Turkey who had attempted a traitorous coup and had fled Turkey and supported their provocation against Turkey, which continued. They have seen even double citizenship for our people and their children, who have been living in Europe for fifty-seven years and have contributed a great deal to Europe in economic, cultural, and social meaning. Many inhuman challenges are being created by preventing the union of a family, a fundamental element of society. Young people who marry from Turkey cannot bring their wives to their home countries. Of the nine killed in Germany, seven people were Turks, but the state of the Republic of Turkey was prevented from interfering with the case and exhibited a great example of unlawful conduct to cover up the NSU murders. Children taken from Turkish families are concerned that Turkish culture, non-Islamic families, under the name of the protected family, will be handed over to non-Islamic families, and their fate will not be known. For example, a month ago, a 1.5 - year - old child named War was found dead in sleep in a German foster home, and so on. In Germany and Austria, which claim that there is no freedom of expression in Turkey, we see efforts have been made to ban them, not to mention freedom of expression, not to mention symbols, and even signs that define Turkish culture. I felt the need to address these issues in our Veteran Assembly because if negotiations with the EU continue, we would like Turkish authorities to first discuss these issues at the negotiating table, to contribute to the resolving of these issues of the European Turkish Union. Dear lawmakers, the National Movement Party does not view relations with the EU as an identity and fate issue for Turkey, but argues that Turkey is obliged to drift into the EU's orbit at all costs, not in prison or in need.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0512par0204	Complete, Mr. Cetin. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0511par0206	In addition to the EU, countries and as a whole, the respect for our national interests, our expectations, our sensitivities and needs will be factors that will shape the future of our relations with the EU. Our party supports the continuation of accession talks on Turkey's national unity and integrity, terrorism and separatism, Cyprus, Greece and Armenia, as long as it does not harm Turkey's interests, but the continuation of negotiations should not be a basis for the EU's political or economic pressures against Turkey. As I end my words here, I salute your grand delegation. I wish our country and our nation the best of the current budget of 2019.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0513par0211	Thank you, Mr. Cetin. The following is İstanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0514par0216	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Party of Action Group to discuss the budget for the President of the European Union. The Veteran Assembly, I salute the beloved Turkish nation watching us on the screen, the precious representatives of the march, our ministers and all the employees of our Veteran Assembly. First, we need to look at what comes to mind when we say the European Union. A unit of 28 members is worth over 500 million people, and it's important that we get together, especially economically, and in this particular way, as long as our country's accession process and negotiations begin, we're talking about a 505-year-old past as long as accession talks begin. There have been times in these fifty-five years when there have been ups and downs and downs, but what's important to us is where the breaking point is and where the criticism comes from. The progress report was written -- I'll be there soon -- came up with a preliminary draft in the progress report. What was mentioned in the preliminary draft, what our country is being criticized for, and we should be particularly concerned about. The countries of the European Union are first critical of our country as they criticize it, and they say: "Change the definition of this terror." The definition of terrorism is one; the terrorist is one; the person standing at the bus stop, the person blowing himself up is the terrorist, and the people who died there are our martyrs. That should be seen, that should be seen. According to Turkey, the definition of terrorism does not change according to Germany. Yes, we're being criticized by the State of Emergency. Anyone who criticizes our country for the implementation of the State of Emergency -- those who have declared Europe a cradle of democracy -- should look at France. Yes, when we looked at the explosion in front of the station, after the explosion in front of the station, France was declared a state of emergency for two years. We've asked our European friends everywhere we've been critical of seven years of three months and twenty-one months in our country, and we've said, "When the state of emergency is declared in Turkey, it's antidemocratic, but it's a democracy in France and other countries showing its own state reflex; we need to ask that. Or do we just have to ask the Europeans if they have a government reflex? Yeah, and besides, especially after the terrorist attempt, after the July 15 coup attempt, that night was actually a very important turning point for our country. On that night, we are opposed to the coup attempt of Mr. State Gardener, leader of the Turkish world and the nationalist nation, and we are with our state. Because after that, in fact, the foundations of the presidential government system, which our European friends didn't like, and the United States didn't like. Praise be to God, the presidential government system will continue to stand up straight after this. (MHP and AK PARTY) And of course the state of the Republic of Turkey, our country and our nation will fight every form of terror; it has, and it will continue to happen after that. The National Movement Party will continue to support the struggle of each ministry, especially the Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs. One of the same criticisms is journalists who are under arrest and other people who have been relieved of their duties. Yes, I'd like to remind you that the German Minister of Justice here said directly that freedom of expression ends at the beginning of crime. Yes, freedom of speech must end at the beginning of crime in our country. If freedom of speech is to go out and speak against the state... one of the most important laws adopted in the last few years is the fact that there are 50,000 euros on social media for seven days. We need to pay special attention to this. Yes, as a nationalist movement party, our previous speaker, our esteemed MP, has already mentioned the process of the European Union. Indeed, yes, it's not a necessity, it's just a strategic partnership. When the economy is considered, as long as it appeals to the economic needs of our country, we will continue to support and support European Union talks as long as there are no sanctions on important issues, at the point of our sensitivities. In particular, what should be done, by the way? It's very important. The Minister is here. I would like to say to the Foreign Minister that I want to go over this in private: the Customs Union Agreement needs to be fully updated because the Customs Union Agreement has nothing to do with membership in the European Union. When we weren't members of the European Union, we had a Customs Union agreement.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0515par0226	Bind your words, Mr. Virtue.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0514par0227	In that sense, we need to explain this specifically to our European friends. And the funds that are coming, to increase them... the ancient struggle that our country has waged for immigrants, which the Turkish nation has waged, I want to stress again and again from here... and I want to thank the vast heart of the Turkish nation. Really, it's not easy to open your heart to so many immigrants, to be drawn to so many immigrants, and our European friends have to do their part in that sense. These funds need to come urgently, to increase their numbers, and our ministry needs to make the necessary initiatives again. Finally, Mr. Secretary -- because it's connected to this issue -- a significant portion of these funds must be used especially in education. Because indeed, immigrants in our country are going to be living with us for a little while longer at the point of assimilation (x), and we are aware of that, and in order to survive this time very well, we need to separate an absolute and absolute important fund at the point of education so that we can live in harmony, and we have teachers in it, our PICTES teachers. Our PICTES teachers have trained children from there to this day.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0516par0231	Please complete, Mr. Erdem. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0514par0233	Every three years, their contracts are renewed. I'd like to draw special attention to the point of finding a more permanent solution to all of this. I wish that the budgets of all ministries and the budget of the State Department, which we are discussing today, the budget of the National Ministry of Defense, would be a blessing. I salute the Veterans' House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0517par0238	Thank you, Your Grace. Dear MPs, the talks on behalf of the MHP Group have been completed. Now, I'm going to make a one-minute commitment to lawmakers who have asked for their place according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0518par0241	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0517par0242	Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0518par0243	My dear President, while I was away from the hall -- I've just arrived -- I'm Izzet Bey, spokesman for the National Movement Party, said that they have offered a law on the removal of Yavuzturk neighbourhood from the Boğaziçi Law. It's true what they did. In November of 2018, I renewed my proposed law in 2016 in July 2018. Three months after me, the law is exactly the same as my proposal, without changing its comma. I made a promise that this would go on the record. Also, Yavuzturk neighborhood has not only zoning problems; it has property problems; it has parking problems; it has bus problems; it has street problems; it has mosque problems; it has school problems; it has paint thinner problems; it has access problems in this sense. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0519par0247	Thank you, Mr. Tanal... Well, now, I'm going to take turns making a promise to the lawmakers who are demanding entry to the system according to order. Mr. Kara...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0520par0250	Mr. President, I'm sorry, I'm so sorry... There will be a word correction.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0521par0252	It's too short...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0522par0253	Here you go, Mr. Erdem.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0521par0256	Thank you very much. I didn't want to use the word "Zinhar," "Assimilation" about our immigrants who are here because we've heard so much about the Turks abroad, especially because they've been assimilated at the integration point. On the other hand, there was a discussion about the assimilation of the Turks abroad. Integration, integration studies on our immigrants... I want to fix this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0523par0259	Thank you, Your Grace. Mr. Kara... no. Mr. Vahaboglu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0524par0263	Mr. President, thank you. I have a question for Mr. Secretary of Defense. Mr. Secretary, the defence industry is extremely important, and it's an important area for both the value of our country's needs to be met. In particular, we have industrial branches that will provide infrastructure for this. Would you consider taking one of the organized industrial areas that is built here into the exclusive defense industry and supporting it? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0525par0266	Mr. Spearman...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0526par0268	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Secretary Varank. As it is known, an unnatural flood developed as a result of the hatch break in the Tigris Dam. Has the dam been repaired? If it's done, what's the status of the periodic maintenance charts? Has the dam been analyzed? If you've been trained, if you've been trained, do you have training certificates? How many engineers work in the dam? Is there a occupational and occupational safety expert in the dam? Will you check the other dams after this? When will you begin your damage assessments? Because we know that the Hevsel Gardens, the UNESCO cultural heritage, and the tradesman were damaged by the flood again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0527par0271	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0528par0273	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, my question to Mr. Minister of Industry and Technology is about KOSGEB. Is it true that support for small and medium-scale firms has been lifted? I've already filed a question motion, and there's no answer. Did they remove the qualified employee support they received for the undergraduate and graduate staff they started working for the firms? Again, have the small and medium-sized companies been removed from their advertising and marketing activities? Another question: there is no application for foreign brand registration support due to illegal definitions in forms. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0529par0276	Mr. Cemal Taşar... no. Mr. Gültekin of the AK PARTY Group... Mr. Bahshi of the Good Party...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0530par0280	My question is to Mr. Secretary of State. Rahim Cavadbeyli is a Turk from Tebriz. He was forced to leave Iran because he expressed the problems of the Turks living in the Tebriz region, and came to Turkey four years ago after a difficult journey. Rahim Cavadbeyli was taken into custody four months ago while living under the supervision of the United Nations Refugees Commissionership and studying for a doctorate at Gazi University. The extradition of Rahim Cavadbeyli to Iran is not possible according to international agreements. Is he being detained because of Iran's request for extradition or because of something else? When will he be released, since he won't be returned? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0529par0282	Mr. Kaboglu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0531par0284	Thank you. I have questions for every three ministers. To the Foreign Ministry: Turkey, a founding member of the Council of Europe and ratifying the European Convention on Human Rights in 1954, recognized the authority of the court in 1990. Thus, human rights became an integral part of European law. Question: Mr. Minister, while the European Court's decision is binding, just like the Constitutional Court's decision, can the political target eliminate the European Court's obligation to execute it? The Ottoman-public political and constitutional tradition was abandoned by the amendment of the Constitution in the conditions and conditions of the State of Emergency, which contradicted the requirements of comparative constitutional law and had no social needs. Again, June 24th elections were held under the conditions of the State of Emergency when there was no need. Now, instead of part-resolved, the March 31st elections are wanted to be illegitimate in the speech of threats, blackmail, criminalization against opposition parties.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0532par0289	The system can't turn on the microphone in a minute of verbal requests, Mr. Hajji, so I apologize for that. Dear Islam...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0533par0292	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is Mr. Mustafa Varank. Mr. Varank, after my speech here on October 31st, I received a letter from you anonymously about July 15th. If it's me, it's the same. Second, we lost your late brother on the streets on July 15th, which I was on the streets. Please explain to us in detail why you refuse to let the political foot of ▪ appear. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0534par0297	Mr. Gültekin Uysal, the president of the Democratic Party, has requested a statement, and I promise him for three minutes from his position, as did the representatives of the political party who did not have the other group. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0535par0300	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, first of all, I salute you all. Today we are at the end of the budget negotiations of our three ministries. Of course, I'd like to make an assessment of each ministry in the broadest sense of time. But I would especially like to share with you my specific assessments of Turkey's foreign policy, the foreign policy, which has been one of the most important issues of our internal policy over the past 15 or 16 years. The geography we're in is a geography where conflict can be triggered every minute. The two countries that have collapsed are a neighbouring country, and from time to time, there are many incidents in our region that will strengthen and add to our national security concerns. We've come this far from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time, from time to time. Today, we live in a wide range of dimensions, especially because Turkey is forced to embrace more than 3.5 million refugees who exceed its capacity for power, as well as for the deepening of the Syrian crisis at the point of purpose and vehicle harmony, especially as Turkey faces further deepening risks and challenges. We need to make multiple, multidimensional, multi-central assessments of foreign policy, especially refugees. When our negotiations with the European Union in particular are stuck in the refugee parentheses of our negotiations, especially in the Syrian issue and Turkish foreign policy, I believe that the Turkish Armed Forces, along with all of the national power elements of the economy, particularly in the human power, are supposed to support our foreign policy, and that we should put these forces behind it, I'm afraid that Turkey today, when we look from outside and inside -- there is an important reference, an important principle for foreign policy, that the foreign policy is capable -- that many of its commitments have remained on the ground, lost its direction. We also know that, unfortunately, there is no country in the Middle East that we can maintain our relationships at a certain depth, except in Qatar. In an attempt to put on a straightjacket, the United States, especially...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0536par0306	Go ahead, Mr. Soft.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0535par0307	...Egypt, Israel, the United States and Saudi Arabia have a line before them, and on the other side, the Iranian clamp, which creates an ideological and religious line, unfortunately, Turkey has an effort from time to time to reduce its priorities and concerns to a minimum with Russia-Iran cooperation. I believed that perhaps the most positive step by the EC PARTY government in 15 years of time was the depth of Syria, which was captured as an opening. However, I believe that the worst missteps are Syrian politics, which we create with a dream of changing a regime at the point of deepening the Syrian crisis. Especially after the emergence of the power vacuum, in our 30-40-year struggle against terrorism, the PKK extension of the PYD has told itself in Syria...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0536par0310	Complete, please. I'll give you one more minute. Here you go, Mr. Softy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0537par0313	I'd like to go on record that he's acquired an autonomous field, and as a result, he's become a private security company, and he's become an ally of those international forces. I'd like to say once again that the United States, in this sense -- with the PYD terrorist organization, especially with the PKK extension -- is choosing this relationship by ignoring a country that has been in an alliance for many years, such as Turkey, and we don't accept it here. As a final statement, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Justice Party, Ihsan Sabri Çalayangil, who today's executives, must make an ear for those who want to rule in the future, say: If you do not sit at the table in the Middle East, you will find yourself on the menu. Unfortunately, Turkey found itself on the menu at the dinner table.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0538par0317	Bind your words, Mr. Sublime.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0537par0318	Despite all these criticisms and criticisms in this regard, we have expressed our positive statements, our support statements, our positive statements in all these processes, including Operation El Bab, Operation Afrin, Operation Fırat Shield, in order to make room for Turkey in the consciousness of the risks facing today, challenges. At the risk of giving martyrs in this regard, Turkey is on its way to making amends. From that point on, Turkey needs a refresher of understanding, a proper political mind, and a proper foreign policy, to make it flesh and blood. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0538par0320	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0539par0321	Mr. President, in the general assessment of this section, what we're about to say is both technical and earlier talks. If you see fit, I'd like to pass on this right to our Secretary General.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0538par0322	Here you are, Mr. Akif Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0540par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank Mr. Special for his kind behavior. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Mr. Izzet Ulvi Yölter, MP of the National Movement Party, have just referred to the issues of property, development and property in some neighborhoods in İstanbul. In this context, he also referred to problems in the Fatih and Veysel Karani neighborhoods of Sandzaktepe district. In fact, in the bush of Fatih neighbourhood, according to City Law 5393, it is required that our citizens sit on the transport of treasure transferred to the municipality under urban transformation. Again, in this framework, it is also required that the citizens of Veysel Karani neighborhood, who are entitled by Law 4706, are not yet processed in this framework. These economies and problems are not limited to the neighborhoods I count. Sandzaktepe, Beykoz, Sultangazi, Albanian village, Umraniye, many districts of Istanbul are inhabited in many districts.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0541par0328	Carry on, Mr. Hamzacebi.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0540par0329	The solution to the problem requires legal regulations. I was really happy that Mr. Yölter had brought these matters up. According to Law 4706, which I have recently discussed in the General Assembly, I have made a recommendation that I have submitted to a motion concerning urban transformation -- which, according to Law 4706, has been forced to pay per diem -- that I have made a motion to resolve the problem of citizens who should not have been paid -- that we will then make a comprehensive arrangement in this regard by the EC PARTI Group. It has not been supported and has not been accepted because the General Assembly has not been reached.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0541par0331	Tie your words, Mr. Hamzacebi. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0540par0333	My last words, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Since the Nationalist Movement Party is also complaining about these problems, I suggest now: Let's solve the problems of those citizens who are faced with the obligation to pay in accordance with the Fifth Amendment of Law 4706 and with a legal arrangement at the first opportunity, which is unfairly and unfairly, in accordance with Article 73 of the City Code. As for the amendment to Law 4706, I have made a law proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which I have given every term, which I have given and which is waiting for this period. This could be a proposal, there could be other offers; the problem is waiting for a solution. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0542par0337	Thank you, Mr. Hamzacebi. Mr. Danış Beştaş...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0543par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the news of the Conqueror Orange, which has been in the media all day, is quite terrifying. Mr. President, today you must know whether it's mandelina or citrus or orange. If you don't behave, this nation will blow you up. He has made a very grave statement in the form of your neck. First of all, in a country where journalists have been killed in our past, recent history, where hundreds of others are still under arrest, and especially in a country where Hrant Dink and Dear Tahir Elçi have been massacred as a result of these aims, this conversation is very dangerous. It is not a crime to be a journalist, and Fatih Orange may explain his views within the freedom of the press, whether we agree with the idea or disagree with it, whether the President agrees or disagrees. This aim, indeed, has declared to the world that freedom of the press-release has been wiped out during Turkey's entry into the European Union. Once again, I would like to state that the Conqueror Orange is a journalist and journalism is not a crime. The other is: While Mr. Foreign Minister is here, I would like to ask his opinion on the European Court of Human Rights' violation of the 18th article, particularly under Demirtaş's decision. As you know, Mr. Minister, Turkey has been convicted for the first time in the trial of Demirtaş in front of the European Court of Human Rights. The legal term for Article 18 is that democracy in Turkey is under great threat, pluralism is threatened. Now, after this decision, I don't know this decision, so we'll make our move and we'll finish it. He made a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0344	Go ahead, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0543par0345	And in a very short period of time, the decision of Mr. Sırrı Süzeyya Önder and Denizlahattin Demirtaş was approved with instructions. We will continue to violate the 18th article. It means the application. Yeah, there's a lot to say about that. Your ministry and the administration are persistently making many statements about the strategic process of membership in the European Union, the reform processes and so on, but we all know the relations of the Council of Europe, and the situation in the AKPM table is clear. I'd really like to ask: Is the European Court of Human Rights decision no longer binding, so politically, legal context can be eliminated?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0347	Complete, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0543par0348	Also, Council Secretary General Daniel Holtgen has made a statement and has made statements regarding the binding of decisions, Mogherini and many other officials. And we're looking at a development that will cause diplomatic and economic problems. The Committee of Ministers has sanctions. In this regard, especially in this process, what does your Ministry intend to do for a consistent foreign policy, and what is ahead of it? Also, has the implementation of European Court of Human Rights been left to the President's instructions? Right now, lawmakers have cases in front of the ECHR on immunity. The European Court of Human Rights is to be prevented from making decisions on this issue? And finally, I would like to say that, really, with the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the case under which the case was approved with orders and instructions...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0351	Connect your words, Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0543par0352	Because of the files made by the Fetullahists to eliminate political opponents, Mr. Sırrıyya Önder is now in prison and Demirtaş's decision has been finalised. Doesn't that mean that the 18th Amendment violation should be more heavily monitored? How do you explain this on behalf of a consistent foreign policy as the State Department? What is the place of the European Court of Human Rights decisions in our society, in Turkey? In this regard, you are often abroad, negotiating with the European Union authorities, and we know that you have delayed the decision to the ECHR in the lobby and in the talks with them. That's within our knowledge. Is there really a lot of money spent on lobbying? That's what we want to know. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0354	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0355	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0356	Do you have any demands?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0357	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0544par0358	It's not in the system. You'd better point, and I'll see. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0361	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I wish you a good evening again. I'd like to express a few things about the issues that Mr. Bestaş has proposed. Now, there's a very important rule of mecellene, which is that the sentence of a job is given according to its purpose. This is a fundamental law in the law, and the matter of purpose is decided according to it. Just because people's jobs are journalism doesn't mean that every action they do, every action they say, is an audit. And since you're calling me names, I need to reminisce. In his publications, the Conqueror Orange does more than journalism. If it's about inviting people to act on their democratic rights, that's fine. People gather, get their legal permission. There are many actions in Turkey every day, in almost every province, but if you're under the guise of journalism, and you're in a position to provoke society, and under this guise, a policy of your own, there really is a problem.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0546par0365	No judgment?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0366	If the Conqueror Orange wants to do politics, let him come and do his politics here, but if he wants to provoke people to act, call them to the street, then the law will do it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0547par0367	What if his head was cut off? Did you say anything to him?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0368	If you'll excuse me, I'll finish my statement. I'd like to complete my statement, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, you have the opportunity to take a pledge. I'd like to further state that no one in this country is ever, ever, ever, ever being detained, ever, ever, and never, ever, ever subject to a legal investigation, just because he's a journalist. It's about what you do when you do this job for what purpose, what arguments you use. And you've said it again because you're sorting out a lot of different subjects in a row, and maybe it's confusing, but I need to answer them over and over again. You have pointed to the Tahir Ambassador. You say. The matter of how the Tahir Elçi was killed is already clear, in the event, as if the target had been shown...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0548par0373	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0374	Thank you. You make it sound like there's some kind of deliberate process going on in that process. The process of how it happened already continues, the legal process continues, the trials continue. Each one of us is sorry, and I'm very sorry for the death of Tahir Eflu, and let's just say that in the obvious images of how the matter is going down there, the people who did it are dead, too. We have police officers who died before, and you know how it happened. So rather than intentionally killing, there's something that happened during that incident, but it's not over yet. So he was killed by being targeted. The expression is a very important intention. I object to that. It's about the ECHR, so I see that the most stable thing in this House is that the opposition is going to re-open the same issues over and over again. We've been talking about this for, like, a couple of hours last week, long, almost. Mr. Secretary will present it here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking you one last time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0549par0379	Complete it, Mr. Rich. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0381	The decision made by the ECHR was related to the arrest. In connection with the arrest, the first reason for the arrest, the first reason for the arrest, says that it is justified, but that the extensions should also be given more detailed evidence, the ECHR decision states that, and right now, it tells us, "Make a decision on this issue. Make a new decision by which the judgment has been made. What's the new decision? It's confirmation, so he had to make a decision, so he's making it. I mean, it's really weird that you're saying that this judgment is based on instructions. Then all the results are in order. So, yes, it's true, the decisions made by the entire European Court of Human Rights are binding on the 90th article of the Constitution in terms of our internal legal system, but ultimately you have to see what decision it is. The decision is a matter of continuation of the arrest. What is said in article 18 is also a frame drawn there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0549par0383	Please, wrap it up, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0384	In fact, that decision, the European Court of Human Rights, has very little practice in the world to implement the 18th Amendment, and when it is looked at like this, all of it is the result of political approaches. You can't take a court like this as a judicial trial in a local court. International courts like this always have political perspectives. For a long time, countries have been tried to be aligned not only in Turkey -- as in the international community -- through the law, and we need to see this. So that's a direction -- in a way that's kind of a way of putting it -- it's a slap in the face, getting the countries in line. So, I find the approach said there political, I see politics, and in the end, we've carried out our own decisions by the European Court of Human Rights, but I think we should read them right. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0549par0386	Thank you, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0550par0387	Let's discuss the 18th article one day, really. You don't know what kind of decision was made, Miss Özlem!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0545par0388	I read the verdict.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0550par0389	The harshest conviction in the history of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0551par0390	Mr. Tujaki...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0552par0391	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0551par0392	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0552par0394	Mr. President, I'd really like to say that I've been listening to Mr. Deputy Director of the Group. I wish there was time to explain in detail the meaning of the 18th Amendment violation of a country here. The basic strategy of the government and the AKP Group is that if it doesn't come to work, it's political. We threaten journalists, too. The trial of a murdered bar president continues, and the perpetrators were not found anyway. We say that such an approach is unacceptable. The Court of Human Rights of Europe shall be released immediately. There is no objection to this decision. This decision had to be carried out by the State of Turkey, which was approved by order of the AKP's President himself, who issued a statement in the court of the Court of Reputation, where prosecutors, police, 2 prosecutors and 2 police officers were arrested.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0551par0397	Complete, Mr. Prosecutor Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0552par0398	So if the whole world has seen this, Mr. Group hasn't seen the Vice President, I suggest he look at the press organs from that day. Two years have passed since the death of the beloved Tahir Elçi, the 2nd anniversary of November 28th, and there is still not a single step in the investigation file. The institution in London issued a report on the perpetrators two days ago, the prosecution didn't move its hair, and we made a motion to investigate every year from day one. Whoever shot the Tahir Elçi, please, let him be found out. A bar president, yes, was targeted in media for a week and then killed, just like Hrant Dink. And now they're going so far as to say that the Conqueror Orange is not a journalist, we can't possibly accept that. We're all aware of everything.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0551par0400	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0553par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit06spe0551par0402	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0551par0001	I open the Seventh Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account The commission is in place. In turn, Istanbul MP Zafer Kırkkaya is in favour of him. Here you go, Mr. Seçekaya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0554par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council and our beloved nation. I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of our State Department, our National Ministry of Defense, our Ministry of Industry and Technology in 2019. Today is December 17th, the anniversary of Shebiarus. For this occasion, I remember the Lord Pir with mercy and gratitude. Congressmans, this date, which has been placed in our memories as the day of the meeting of the Lord of Hazreti, has been recorded as another date that the terrorist organization has contaminated with its best known to it. On this occasion, on December 17, 2013, five years ago, I would like to remember how the country's elected government was tried to be taken down by a psychological attack. The business leaders who signed Turkey's mega projects that day, Turkey's national bank, which has a say in the international arena, and ultimately the leader of strong Turkey, Mr. President, were targeted. How do we upset Turkey's economy when this treacherous terrorist organization and its owners are trying to undermine the government just before the local elections? How do we get Turkey back on the outside? They said, "How can we put shackles on your feet?" Let's raise these interest rates and win them as they used to. Let's shake Turkey's energy policies. Let's disrupt Turkey's global scale projects. They said, "Let us avenge the blue Marmara, the upright stand in Egypt, the human attitude in Syria, and the conscientious objection in Palestine." They said, "Let's stop the rise of Turkey, whose reputation is growing, which is now too loud in the world." Praise be to Allah, the operation, which was sought by the police and judicial militants of the Ferhat terrorist organization, was destroyed by the enormous stance of our President and the presence of our beloved nation who trusted him. The night of this treacherous coup attempt, tens of thousands of people all over Europe stood in front of the Turkish consulates in protest of a coup attempt to support their country and democracy. Until the coup attempt was defused, European Turks did not return home and expressed their reaction. I would like to say once again how precious this standing of the Turkish community, which lives in Europe and whose heart beats for Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Members of parliament, the EC PARTI does not consider Turkey and foreign policy in one dimension; on the contrary, it assesses Turkey's deep history, the geography of civilization, and the buildup due to its recent political and economic stability in a multi-dimensional perspective. Today, there is regional power, global actor Turkey, which demonstrates its own self-confidence, original vision in every field. (AK PARTY) I want to thank everyone, especially our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who led us to this position. Seventeen years ago, Turkey, who had not even attended the meeting in international institutions, had gone, instead an effective representation of all the prestigious organizations around the world, a contributing, developing solution. The poet and thinker Ali Suad Bey is not enough to get to the destination, it is necessary to walk. As he pointed out, our Foreign Ministry, which followed a proactive policy, raised the number of foreign representatives that were 163 before the EC PARTY today to 241. In international relations, Turkey has been replaced by an active policy seeker who also does public diplomacy through institutions such as TİKA, OHR, Yunus Emre, Maarif Foundation, instead of the understanding that only contacts the State Department channel in international relations. Our country has become an example of its great success in international relations, as well as humanitarian aid. This nation, a representative of the civilization of justice and mercy, does one third of the world's humanitarian aid alone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0555par0068	Finish your words, please, Mr. Seçekaya.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0554par0069	According to the Global Humanitarian Aid Report 2018, Turkey is the most generous country in the world with $8 billion in aid. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that, again, our citizens living abroad are also volunteers of our country. I salute the General Assembly, saying that their growing representation under the roof of this House will make our country stronger in foreign affairs.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0555par0072	Thank you, Mr. Seçekaya. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is now time for talks on behalf of the administration. The first word belongs to Minister of Industry and Technology Mustafa Varank. Here you go, Mr. Varank. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 23 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0078	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget talks of 2019 of our relevant agencies, along with our ministry. On this occasion, I salute our Veteran Assembly and all our fellow citizens who follow us, and wish you the best of budget negotiations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we're a department directly connected to the real sector. We've made it our business to be guiding and facilitating in RD, investment and production decisions. You know, in the new era, investment incentives and regional support have merged under our ministry's umbrella. Thus, we can handle the support provided more fully. We take every step of the way, knowing our duties and responsibilities. My colleagues and I are in the county, keeping a steady pulse on the industrialist and the entrepreneur. From OSB to techno parks, from our industrial institutions to research institutes, from our scientists to our young entrepreneurs, we listen to anyone who wants to be heard, and we form our policies with common intelligence. Dear lawmakers, we continue to work hard with the vision of the National Technology, the Mighty Industry, to strengthen growth and employment. We're going to accelerate structural reforms in production to make our industry even more competitive. This transformation will live on high-increment value production, efficiency increases, digitalisation and regional development axis. The Nativeization Product Program, which we will announce soon, is one of the structural reforms that we care about very much. By reducing the imports of intermediary goods, we aim to increase the technology density of domestic production in an integrated way to international markets. In this context, we're going to design our supports from end to end. We've already taken steps to localize it. We've made the 15 per cent price advantage necessary for medium-high and high-tech domestic products in public goods tenders. We have implemented Industrial Co-operation Projects in public tenders to make more use of local companies' competencies. Turkey's Automobile Project is an important step in both domestication and branding. We see this project as an opportunity for electrical and autonomous tool technologies to be developed by national resources, to produce intelligent mobile solutions locally. Dear lawmakers, we encourage high-velocity production by supporting RD and innovation activities. We have increased the number of R&D and design centres to 1,384. See, R&D expenditures increased by 21 per cent in 2017 to $30 billion in the previous year, and the number of full-time RD personnel increased by 12 per cent to 154,000. The fact that 57 percent of these expenditures are being carried out through the private sector shows that we are on the right track. 5.200 companies operate in the 81 technology development area, which combines universities and industrialists with theoretical knowledge and practice. They exported $3.6 billion while selling $63 billion so far. The products and technologies developed in techno parks have been a factor in other sectors, making significant contributions to our economy. We also support research infrastructure that serves as an important bridge between university and industry. We've provided four research infrastructures for microelectromechanic systems, nanotechnology, advanced materials, drugs and vaccine development. We're also in the process of reviewing research infrastructure in eight new areas. The Antarctic Foundation for Science in Antarctica, which is under the protection of the presidency, is under way. In 2019, we'll arrange our third expedition and set up our temporary base. Our goal is to enter the Antarctic Accords System and present our scientists with new scientific opportunities to study and to wave our moon-star flag across the poles. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, we are aware that the ratio of our industrial plots to our country's facial measurement is low compared to the countries we're competing against. So we give low interest loans, long-term loans to OSBs and industrial sites, and we make infrastructure for industrialists. On November 2nd, by the decision of our President, we expanded the scope of all or partially free land allocations in the OSBs. In 2002, when we had 114 OSBs in our country, we established 114 new OSBs in 16 years, raising the total number to 311. We'll continue to work with all our associates to create environmentally friendly, new and low-cost industrial areas. In order to bring qualified labor into our industry, we support educational institutions in the OSBs in the process of building and operating. The number of educational institutions supported in this framework reached 86. In order to increase women's participation in the labour force, along with the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, we also promote the practice of daycare in the OSB. Our support for industrial sites continues. So far, we've had the 472 industrial site use $6.4 billion in loans to employ 500,000 people. We started building industrial areas for large-scale projects. In October, we announced SOCAR, the first private industrial district of our country in İzmir. With investments in this region, oil and petrochemistry products will see decreases in our foreign trade deficit, reaching 1.5 billion dollars a year. In November, Ceyhan signed an investment partnership agreement for the polypropylene facility in Petrokimya Industries District. The completion of this investment will cover 25 per cent of 2.1 million tonnes of polypropylene import yearly. Precious lawmakers, one important task is to design and implement investment incentive policies that will make our economic development permanent. We began to take a lot of the positive returns of Project Investment Incentivisation System, which we started to accelerate structural transformation in production. With our President's approval, the decision to support 19 investment projects worth 40 billion liras has been issued. We predict that these projects that start investing will reduce the current deficit by $10.4 billion. In harmony with our new Economy Programme, we continue to evaluate a significant number of project applications in areas such as petrochemistry, software, transport technologies and defence industry. In the first ten months of the year, we filed 5,105 investment incentives. In this scope, 131 billion euros are expected to be fixed investments and jobs for 223,000 people. We think it's necessary to include self-source support in our incentive system in the coming period, in terms of needs and demands. The work on improving the investment climate is being carried out by our Ministry. During January 2018-October, there was a direct foreign investment in our country of $9.2 billion. This year, Turkey rose to 43°th in the World Bank Doing Business Index, showing a 17-line jump between 190 countries. Dear lawmakers, we are extremely sensitive to prevent human health and dangerous products from moving through the market, preventing unfair competition. In 2018, we conducted 56 thousand inspections, and we decided to collect 200 products. In the coming period, we will focus on guidance activities by adopting the approach of proactive market surveillance to prevent inappropriate product from being blocked at its source. Legal metrology, which is important for the protection of consumer rights and fair competition, is also one of our activities. In this scope, we are meticulously conducting inspections and examinations, particularly measuring tools and packaging products. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we're working to increase efficiency in our industry. Last week, we opened our country's first Centre for Authority and Digital Transformation, aka Model Factory, in Ankara. Our firms will be able to learn at this center by applying simple manufacturing techniques. In two years, we'll open new centers in 10 different cities. For digital transformation in industry, we published the Digital Turkey Road Map, consisting of human, technology, infrastructure, suppliers, users and management components, and began implementing action plans. Precious guests, with our development agencies, have identified the potential of regions from Edirne to Kars...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0557par0101	We're not guests!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0102	...determining priority areas, implementing sector-based transforming policies. So far, our agencies have signed 19,000 support contracts, providing $5.6 billion in financial support for projects. We've been monitoring all the projects that have been supported, and we've been reviewing the impact analysis and the impact on regional development. In the coming period, agencies will focus on results-oriented programmes, such as industry, innovation, entrepreneurial and vocational education. DAP, DOCAP, GAP and KOP are operating within the framework of regional development administrations, action plans. In this case, 73.8 billion dollars were spent by the end of September 2014-2018. So far, significant advances have been made in the socioeconomic situation of regions from irrigation to energy to education to health in many areas. Dear lawmakers, we have important tasks in many chapters as part of efforts to comply with the EU acquish. The European Union is participating in the Competitiveness of Businesses Programme, and we are part of the horizon 2020 studies. In the framework of financial cooperation, we run the Pre-Accession Financial Aid Competitive Sectors Programme. I want to talk about an important example in this frame. We've transferred 10m euros as part of the IPA to healing efforts in Gobeklitepe, where history has been rewritten. Gobeklitepe, who has been opened to visit, is attracted to visitors from all over the world. Precious lawmakers, through KOSGEB, we've provided $5.9 billion in support for 220 thousand businesses in 16 years. With the SME Financial Support Loan Programme, we created a 20 billion-dollar loan volume by transferring $3.9 billion to 520,000 businesses. We have implemented the Strategic Product Support Programme to encourage domestic production. We started the Technoatimal Support Programme to encourage the commercialisation of new products in primary technologies. With these two programs, we support the COBIs up to $5 million. With the COBI Development Support Programme, we provided $734m in funding for 2,600 businesses, creating an investment volume of $1.5 billion. We supported the establishment of more than 50,000 businesses in eight years by considering the principle of positive discrimination for women, veterans, disabled and first-degree martyrs. In all COSGEB programs, we contribute an additional 15 percent if the machine and equipment bought are domestic. Dear lawmakers continue to side with the national and original technologies of the TÜBITAK. As part of private sector support, we created a 12-billion-dollar RD volume, giving $8.2 billion for 16,000 projects in 16 years. Thanks to the advance RD Lab Support Program, the world's leading tech companies are able to build research labs in our country. Four labs have been activated in this area. In six years, we provided $11 million in capital support for technology-based 1,094 initiatives with the Individual Youth Enterprise Program. We raised the $150,000 grant to young entrepreneurs to $200,000 this year. With academic RD support, in 16 years, we contributed over $10 billion to the 20,155 project. As of 2018, we have increased our support for projects by close to 100 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0558par0110	Oh, water for a drink.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0111	You guys have a lot of experience making small talk, and we're, of course, novices here. We're aware of that, no problem.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0559par0113	Well, we're the chosen ones.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0558par0114	Sir, the public officials can't applaud here, Mr. President, and the public officials are applauding. Public officials don't have the right to applaud like that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0115	Throughout the AK PARTY governments, we strongly supported our scientists. We didn't create slogans for our scientists, we produced jobs. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We struggled to strengthen the science infrastructure and create the necessary climate. In 16 years, 236,000 scientists have benefited from our support. In 2018, we increased the amount of support given by each scholarship programme by 50 percent. We've created new programs for the development of high-tech domestic products through private sector and university cooperation. We're aware that human capital is as defining as well as grants and support in high-velocity production. We've started two new programs for this purpose. With the Industrial PhD Programme, we encourage the development and employment of qualified human resources with the degree of doctorate needed in industry. As part of the first call, we will raise 517 Ph.D. students with 120 cooperation protocols from 33 universities with 77 different firms. We provide these students with employment support for three years in the industry after the doctorate. In accordance with the high demand, we plan to proceed with the program's call for 2019 as soon as possible. Another innovative step is the International Leader Investigators Program. To contribute to projects in the field of strategic importance, we offer very attractive incentives to our country's top researchers. These researchers will have the opportunity not only to work in the university, but also in the private sector, to form their own team. The official application began on December 15th. From the first day we announce the program, we're getting some great comebacks. I would like to point out that this interest in the programme is an answer to the unsubstantiated claims of those who evaluate the scientific ecosystem in Turkey with ideological prejudices. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We also care very much about the upbringing of future scientists. We're setting up experimental technology workshops and science centers so our children can make a habit of scientific thinking and explore their innovative aspects. Through the institutions of TUBITAK, we conduct strategic RD activities in areas such as defense, space, security, energy, medicine, medicine, food, environment, materials that our country needs. I'm just going to give you two examples here. The high-tech laser detector chips you see in my hand are completely designed and manufactured. (APPLAUSE) These detector chips we've produced at the semiconductor Technologies Research Laboratory are part of the searchers' warheads for the bombs used by the SIHA that raised our chests in our fight against terrorism. Turkey has now reached a technological depth from the production of drones and SIHAs to the software systems in it and to the chips you see here. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm proud to say that the TUBITAK product used these laser detector chips to shoot all the SIHA, CIRIT, LUMTAS and TEBER ever made. The speakers who spoke for CHP here said there is no technology in this budget, no industry, no RD. This is where I show them technology and RD. [[Applause from AK PARTY rows, noise from CHP rows]] Another example I want to show you is this drug that I'm holding in my hand. In order to be used effectively in venous circulatory disorders, the drug we obtained from the root of the rabbit diamond has reached the stage of licensing of its name in Anatolia. We use more than 3,750 of our endemic plant treasures to develop innovative medicines in scientific ways, in line with the needs of the Ministry of Health. That's how we open up a way to produce high-velocity herbal drugs. At the next stage, we'll be able to export both the agents and the finished drugs.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0560par0130	The universities aren't free, Mr. Secretary. How are you going to patent them?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0131	This plant sells abroad for 4.5 euros per kilo. The food supplement you see here is on sale at 20 euros in Turkey. Hopefully, we'll develop and sell these drugs in the category of herbal medicine. You used to say "AR-GE." Right? Here you go, RD. You were saying technology. Here's technology. You can see for yourself.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0560par0132	Scientists are abroad, brain migration; how are you going to produce patents, who are you going to produce them with?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0556par0133	As a visionary and historical step, Turkey's Space Agency was founded as a relevant organisation of our Ministry by our President. Our agency, whose first job is to prepare the national space program, will lead from launch technology to ground stations, from electronic intelligence satellites to global positioning satellites, to strategic steps of our national technology move. The Space Agency will run the main coordination of all projects and activities related to space and aviation technologies in our country.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0560par0135	Can you tell me what number of patent productions you're in?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0561par0136	As soon as you build a vehicle to go into space, go out in bulk, we'll be happy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0562par0137	Listen, listen! It's the Minister!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0560par0138	You're among the most patent-making countries in the world?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0563par0139	Mr. President, I'm gonna need a few minutes before I finish my speech.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0564par0140	Here, I'll give you two more minutes when your time is complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0565par0141	Sir, isn't there any more? Is that all the marketing?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0566par0142	Isn't there other products, Minister?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0565par0143	No new products?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0144	Mr. Kazim Arslan came to this stand and said: "The government of the AKP has never opened a factory, no facilities, no investments." This picture you see...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0568par0145	The new sugar factory!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0146	...from the opening of the Tirsan Snow shaft factory, which we visited with him in 2018.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0569par0149	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0150	You might not have temporary memory loss here, but you might remember that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0570par0151	Mr. Secretary, it didn't open in your time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0152	We value the industry.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0571par0154	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0155	Mr. President, we know very well that our national steps in industry and technology are insurance against global risks and external shocks. We will continue to work with all our efforts to make our country a leading production base in industry and technology. Turkey's new growth story will be written with high-end production led by the RD and technology. The story will lead to political stability, strong government, innovative private sector and qualified human capital.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0572par0156	There's no more word for government, Mr. Secretary, there's no more word for it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0567par0157	As I finish, I wish our budget of 2019 was good for our country and our nation, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0573par0159	Mr. President, I'm not going to ask for any words according to 69, but I have a request from you, which is that until today, aside from the boring performance of Mr. Nobleman...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0574par0160	Are you still there?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0573par0161	...the ministers, appointed ministers in front of an elected House, were aware of their presentation. In the general presentation of Mr. Varank, in the last few minutes, there are statements to our congressman, such as temporary memory loss, overstepping his purpose, overstepping the bounds, against a chosen one, that a appointee cannot use under this lofty roof.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0575par0163	Did you promise?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0576par0164	Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0573par0165	In this regard, we're giving it to Mr. Minister himself, to his ineptness on the stand, hoping he doesn't set a bad example from now on. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0576par0168	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0577par0169	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0576par0170	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0577par0171	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0576par0172	Now, look, Mr. Bostanci, I promise you, but...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0578par0174	Don't pretend, Naci Bostancı, your group president is there!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0576par0175	Wait a minute, wait a minute, I know you're the head of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0579par0176	We're negotiating the budget under the new system.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0580par0177	Mr. Naci can't take my word!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0581par0178	Wait, why is Mr. Naci talking?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0579par0179	Who owns the budget? They're here, representing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0582par0180	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0583par0181	No, the Vice President represents...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0579par0182	The budget's been told the worst reviews.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0583par0183	...not the ones who look at it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0579par0184	Mr. Ozgur, there will be the harshest criticism, the people who defend the budget here won't say anything, or won't they?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0584par0186	I'm talking about language.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0585par0187	Thank you, Mr. Special and Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0586par0188	Mr. President, I'd like to make a correction...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0585par0189	I'll give you my word. Please wait.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0587par0190	Does your conscience, your sense of justice fit that?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0191	If that finger is giving you a hard time, I'll talk to you the same way.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0587par0192	No, everyone will know their place. What does that mean?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0193	You can't raise a finger against my group, one.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0587par0194	Everyone will know their place! Everyone will know their place!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0196	Secondly, you will know your place in the right place, and you will know your place in the right place.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0589par0198	Mr. Group Vice Presidents...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0587par0199	I don't know my place, he'll know. Is that what you're saying? Is that what you're saying? That's not gonna happen, everybody knows their place.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0200	You can't make a mockery of an appointed chosen man, you can make a congressman if you want to.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0589par0201	Please, let's be quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0202	An dedicated technician can't make sarcastic, insulting remarks to an elected congressman, that's all!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0590par0204	You insulted me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0588par0205	There's no such thing, you can't open it up.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0206	Mr. Group President and Deputy Director of the Group, the matter is understood.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0592par0207	Mr. President... Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0208	Mr. Arslan, now that I've heard it, you want answers, but I don't think there's a tease. Your group vice president has made the necessary statement. Look... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, listen to me, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0592par0211	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0212	Listen, let me make a statement, Mr. lion, hear me out.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0592par0213	But...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0214	Listen, I'll explain.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0592par0215	Okay, I'm listening.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0216	Look, I wasn't planning on promising Mr. Special, or Mr. Bostanci, until all the talks were completed, just like the 70 minutes and integrity of the talks on behalf of the groups. I'll consider it later if you have a request for an explanation and a word, but I believe Mr. Special has made the necessary statement. I'll give you the right to explain after the speeches are completed, and then I'll listen, and if I have to, I'll promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0592par0217	Mr. President, at least promise me my place.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0218	Mr. lion, that's it. Please... I won't promise until the speeches are finished. I believe Mr. Special has made the necessary statement. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0593par0222	Mr. President, my friends have warned me, I've addressed the General Assembly as the most important guests, there was never any intention here, and I take it back. I wanted to make this correction.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0224	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0594par0225	Mr. President, I was going to remind the Minister of that. We're guests, not guests; you're guests, welcome.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0591par0227	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account Now, for the sake of the executive, the second speech belongs to Foreign Minister Mevlüt Sergeant. Here you go, Mr. Sergeant. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Your time is twenty-two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute you and your grand delegation, the Veterans Assembly. When we started our budget talks, it was December 17th, and we had many martyrs in our history on December 17th. In 1980, we lost our consul and security guard in Sydney, our attache in the attack of the Armenian terrorist organization ASALA. In 2004, we lost five of our security guards and one of our local staff in Mosul. In 2016, 15 of our soldiers were killed as a result of a traitorous terrorist attack on Kayseri. On this occasion, I wish to cherish all our martyrs. I congratulate all lawmakers who have spoken on the budget of our State Department, who have expressed their views, who have criticised the proposals, and I thank them very much. We're going through a really tough time, there's a transition period in the world. Our territory is a ring of fire, and we are trying to successfully conduct Turkish foreign policy in such a process. We also tried to make the most of the budgets approved by our parliament in the past. Of course, as Mustafa Kemal Ataturk stated when he founded the republic, we are trying to reach all parts of the world with a sense of peace, a sense of jihanda. On the one hand, our number of missions in the world is growing, and on the other hand, we've become stronger by joining with the Ministry of the European Union, and today we're in the 5th place in terms of the number of missions in the world, we have 242 missions. We had six representatives in Latin America; we had 17 in Africa; we had 12 in Africa; we had 42 in ASEAN; we had a Regional Dialogue Partnership status; we didn't just have an embassy in Laos. Now we have an embassy in all 10 of them, and in the coming days, we'll have Basra and again with your support. Of course, it's important to reach all over the world, but developing strategic relationships is one of our priorities. As we take our bilateral relations to strategic level, we work day and night to improve our relations in every area, especially in trade. Of course, it is our duty to seek, defend our country's interests all over the world, and to wave the Turkish flag all over the world. But in order to manage the crises that exist through the world and our region, in order to solve them, we have to achieve crisis management very well in order to prevent them. Here, Turkey is truly successful in crisis management today and has now become a country that everyone, especially in mediation, has applied for. After the recent crisis in the Kerç Strait and the Sea of Azak, everyone expects our President to help release the Ukrainian ships and their staff, including Europeans, and of course we're doing our part in this, but not if we just manage this crisis. There's a fire nearby, a fire in Syria, which has been going on for seven or eight years, there's a civil war. In order for this war to be stopped from one side, we also need to make a very good assessment of a political solution process that has come our way in the effort to establish and continue the truce. With our latest signing of Idlib, we've avoided disasters, but we may have opened up a window of opportunity for a political solution in Syria, which we should consider. After our talks are over tonight, hopefully we'll move to Geneva in the morning, and the foreign ministers of Russia and Iran will come, and tomorrow we'll decide to establish the Constitutional Commission for Syria, hopefully, together, and continue their negotiations with the United Nations. It will be a historic day, and we will be taking an important step towards a political solution in Syria. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Of course, we need to continue to fight terrorism in Syria because the YPG, PKK, DAEŞ and other terrorist organizations are still in the field, and they pose a threat to us. So it is our duty to eliminate these terror organizations beyond our borders. On the other hand, we continue our talks with the United States for successful implementation of the Menbic road map, which we conducted with our National Defence Ministry and used earlier, and to cross the east of Fırat, and we believe that the Menbic road map will be completed in the coming days. But the problem in our region is not only Syria, but we also strive to end the fire in Yemen, and the war in Yemen. We deliver our humanitarian aid, support the efforts of the United Nations, and in the coming days, as President of the Islamic Co-operation Agency, we will have another meeting on Yemen. Our same thoughts and efforts apply to Libya, and we support the work of the United Nations in Libya. Next weekend, hopefully, we'll move to Libya with a large delegation, along with our special representative, Emrullah Bey. And further support for Libya. There is tension in the Balkans, in the Caucasus, in other areas. We are particularly closely monitoring the tension between Kosovo and Serbia. Our president is constantly looking for both presidents, and we are making efforts to ensure a softness between these countries. We also work day and night for Bosnia and Herzegovina's integration into the Euro-Atlantic institutions of Macedonia. We continue our efforts under the United Nations and as a self-confident country in the eyes of international organisations, as well as a respectable country. And now, the leading country, along with Finland, is Turkey, on the initiative to negotiate for peace. Turkey is the co-chair of this initiative under the OSCE after the United Nations, and we've taken the initiative to mediate for peace with the Islamic Co-operation Agency, and we care very much about it. Today, we need more intercultural alliances than ever before, and we have recently had a forum in New York to revitalize this initiative, which we co-chair with Spain, and the new Secretary General, or rather, the former Secretary of State of Spain, with the former Foreign Affairs of Spain, together with Spain. Because if we don't get ahead of the currents, such as increasing racism, alien hostility, intolerance, and hostility towards Islam, we want to tell you that Europe and the world are facing catastrophes. My fellow lawmakers, we're making an effort to make sure that the Spooner's murder is cleared with the same understanding. This process of Turkey is being watched by the world, by the international community, with appreciation, but we're not trying to get credit, we're making an effort to clarify a murder. (EA/DG) Whatever it takes, including the international investigation, we will proceed to the end, as our President Erdogan said. It is our duty to take care of our national and holy cause. We will continue to claim our holy cause, Palestine and Jerusalem. (AK PARTY) There's a country that won't shut up, Turkey; there's a nation that won't shut up; it's the Turkish nation. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) We will not leave our brothers alone for the rest of the time. We've organized two Islamic Co-operation Agency's Extraordinary Summits.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0596par0297	Why are the Israelis coming without a visa? Why do the Israelites come to Turkey without a visa?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0298	And We see, after them, those who are unhappy with it, and you, be not pleased with it, but crack, we will not leave our Palestinian brothers alone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0597par0300	Easy, easy! Break it down, slow down!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0596par0301	Why do the Israelites come to Turkey without a visa?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0302	In the United Nations, Turkey has also issued two decisions that will defeat America and Israel by initiative, and it has often been overwhelming.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0598par0304	Tell me about the blue marmara, tell me about the blue marmara.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0305	From now on, we will continue this effort until there is a two-state solution, never leaving the case of Jerusalem and Palestine alone. One of our national cases is Cyprus. In Cyprus, we made sincere efforts to reach a lasting solution for a fair solution. But we also saw in Crans-Montana that unfortunately the Greek side disagrees.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0599par0307	What have you done with the Uyghurs, Minister, to the Uyghurs?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0308	Therefore, it is no longer possible for us to start a discussion. What we're going to negotiate, what we're going to negotiate, what the parameters are, what the framework is, what we're going to determine. Otherwise, it's not just talk. But I'll remind you again of those who dream of zero soldiers, that dream, that dream, they wake up, they give up, that will never happen. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] On the other hand, our position on hydrocarbon research around Cyprus is clear, and we are now starting our excavations in areas invited by the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and in areas that we have recorded earlier in the UN, and now we have not only seismic ships, but also with our ships, and with our heroic soldiers, we will continue to take the necessary measures. Dear lawmakers, we've been talking about the EU for years. Of course, the EU is still a strategic goal for us, but we say it to their faces, and we say it to them, without hesitation, when we're uncomfortable with the European Union. Right now, we're aware of the problems with participation. We, on the one hand, brought reform to Turkey's agenda with the Reform Action Group meetings, with the instructions of our President, after the break-up of the extraordinary state in Turkey, overcoming the traumas we experienced after this treacherous coup attempt. It is Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has transformed this country for 17 years, who has been subject to reforms that the whole world has described as silent revolutions. Now, with this Reform Action Group, especially with our Ministry of Justice's work, we're setting up a reform action strategy and we're going to continue our reforms. But as these things continue, there are steps we will take with the European Union when there are challenges. We need visa liberalization. This is our nation's right, our citizen's right. We're always bringing up problems with immigration from the European Union, there are challenges, but I'd like to say that this cooperation will continue in the future. Our deputies told us today, especially on behalf of the MPHP, that the customs union should be updated immediately, and we agree, and we are working together with the European Union to renegotiate the negotiations after three rounds of talks that have been held before, because this is in the best interest of both sides. In fact, I've always said in an ambitious way that most European Union member states will benefit and benefit from this upgrade more than Turkey. It's no use to the European Union to block this process with political feelings. We also told the European Union that you are making cuts from IPA funds. These funds don't essentially weaken Turkey's economy, but they make you smaller, they make your reputation smaller. So please give up such small thoughts. We need to continue our cooperation in many areas, including security. This is also useful for the European continent. Yes, we will exist all over the world, strengthen our power, seek our interests. But we have over 6 million citizens living abroad. Taking care of these citizens is our priority, one of the priorities of Turkish foreign policy. We work day and night to serve our citizens better, faster, better quality and better. We're not just doing it with our call centers, we're doing it with all our missions. When our citizens are subjected to racial attacks or need legal support in any way, we now strongly support them. The last time we're with our family counselors, we're with our citizens who live abroad, including family counseling, or other social problems, we're with our citizens, and we're going to work day and night to give them the best of the service. And in Austria, you know, about the state of our citizens abroad, they have a law against dual citizenship, and some of our citizens have been cut off from citizenship. But in Austria today, the Austrian Constitutional Court called it off, and this unfair application of the Austrian government, of the state, has returned from law again, and we are more than happy to do so. Yeah, it's our job to keep track of all our overseas businessmen, investors, all their jobs. We work hard to make everyone feel our government wherever our flag flies. But we have relatives, we have relatives, and we can't leave them alone because they've waited a hundred years for a strong Turkey to come back, and we can't silence them again. And the legacy of our ancestors is one of our most important tasks. But only if we get our help to our kinsmen, our kinsmen. We are Turkey, the hope of the oppressed in the world. All over the world, whether it's the Rohingian Muslims, the Somalis, the Caribbean, wherever they are, we'll continue to take care of all the oppressed, the oppressed in Gaza. Today, not only with the Foreign Ministry, but with our TİKA (TİKA), we are branded in the world with the Yunus Emre Turkish Cultural Center, again with our Kızılay, with our AFAD, with our Maarif Foundation, with our Turkish Airlines. Hard power is important, but soft power is more permanent, it increases the country's reputation. Together with all our institutions, we strive to boost the image of Turkey throughout the world. But when it comes down to it, we need to use our tough power, and we need to use diplomacy. Against what? Against terrorists in the fight against terrorism. Just as we continue to fight inside, we continue to fight them until the end, and in the future, we will fight them to bring those traitors back to our country, including the construction of the PKK, the YPG and other terrorist organizations, and we will say to our friends who will be new in office: "Don't, don't, don't, the fight is over. If we learn, we will be deceived, we will continue to fight them to the end, and in the future we will strive to bring those traitors back to our country. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, you've asked questions in your speeches, you've expressed opinions, and we thank you very much. A friend of ours said, "When will the Syrian return?" That may be a fair question, but I don't forget where these people came from. Now, in particular, more than 300,000 Syrian volunteers have returned to the River Shield area of Afrin. If we help them with the international community a little bit more, they'll come back even more. So he has a desire to return. Even after the confession, although there were many terrorists and foreign terrorists there, they even began to return there because there is Turkey, where Turkey is at peace. Sir, a friend of ours said that Turkish foreign policy was founded on Kurdish hostility. We have no problems with our Kurdish brothers or our Kurdish brothers outside of Syria and Iraq. In Baghdad, we are here for the constitutional rights of Kurds, Kurds, Kurdish brothers. But we went to Erbil, and we said, "Mr. Barzani, if you do this referendum, your rights will go out, you will not sit at the table, you will divide the Kurds, the Kurds will suffer. We have to make a very good distinction here. We're never out there, and we're never against Kurds inside, but we'll continue our fight with YPG and PKK until the end. [[AK PARTY AC PARTY A round of applause for the voices of Bravo (Bravo); HHP and the good PARTY give a round of applause]] Here he is talking, and he spoke in the budget, and then he ran away because the truth is... Hishyar, you're here, fine, I'm glad.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0600par0323	Who ran away? Who ran away?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0324	Last year, did you go to Syria and meet with more than 300,000 Kurds who had been exiled by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK)? I said, "Why can't they go back to Syria?" Unfortunately, you couldn't. Why? The PKK won't let you, they won't let you. Let's talk about the truth. Again, I can't remember your name, forgive me, we have a friend of ours from the Suryanian background, who told me that on that day, the Suryan were persecuted in Turkey. We're in very good contact with the Suryans all over the world, just as we've given all the rights to the Suryans. But the other day, I was approached by the World Assembly of Sustainers, the President of the Syrian Congress, and he says: "To the east of the Ferrat, the PKK/YPG is exiles; it closes its schools and forces our children into it." Why don't you say that? Because you can't. (EA/DG) PKK/YPG will not allow you, you cannot say. (ARK PARTY APPLAUSE) Nor will you be able to say it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0601par0326	You can't talk to us like that as Minister. You can't talk like that as Minister. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0602par0327	Mr. Secretary, we say what we want. We have our will and our word, Mr. Secretary. You can't just accuse us of false statements.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0328	Excuse me. Two days ago, I met with the Yazidi activist Nadya Murat. That's right. Nadya Murat said, "Please tell your soldiers not to bomb this place, because the DAEŞ is gone, the YPG/PKK has arrived." At first they came to us as saviors, but now they're taking our children by force. When you bomb them, they hide, they drive the Yezidi out front, and they die. I said, "Well, why don't you make a sound?" They forced one of our daughters into his system -- just three or four days ago -- and she ran away; and they came, forced her to go again, and when our people rebelled, they couldn't take her away. I mean, the PKK is doing it. When I heard that, I remembered what PKK had done to our Kurdish brothers in Turkey. Now, you're uncomfortable with these facts, but they're real. I'm telling you because you can't. [[AK PARTY AC PARTY A round of applause for the voices of Bravo (Bravo); HHP and the good PARTY give a round of applause]] Sir, I'm running out of time. So here the YPG/PKK is cruelest to Kurds, Yezis, Süryans and others in Syria and Iraq. He said here in the sense that there is a carcass here, and Turkey is in it. Don't worry, if there's a scavenger in Syria, it's PKK/YPG. (EC PARTY and OPERATOR) Because no one, including the opposition, is trying to divide Syria, but the PKK/YPG is there to divide Turkey. You're saying: "They're evacuating the Kurds, they're putting someone else in them." On the contrary, the PKK now controls 90 percent of Arab sites and even took away their property, even their property.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0603par0332	You didn't take it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0333	In Afrin, again, the Suryani drove their children against the Turkish soldier. That's what we have to say. Sir, as for the Court of Human Rights, the court has once contradicted its own decision.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0604par0336	Complete, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you two more minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0595par0337	My last words are already, Dear President. First the court said: "The arrest of Imirtaş is true, he has been arrested with reasonable doubt." Then he said: "Sir, he has been arrested on political grounds." Once again, the Court of Human Rights should not contradict his own decisions in such a way. I'm saying this as someone who's worked very hard to reform this court. Two: The decision is not yet final. Within three months -- this small apartment has been decided -- Turkey has the right to take this decision to the grand court. Of course, court decisions are our business, but Europeans have no right to lecture us on the implementation of European Court of Human Rights decisions. In 15 years, Greece has not implemented three rulings from the Human Rights Court on Western Thracian Turks. Some countries say I don't know European countries. The part that concerns us is something else, but many European countries, including Germany, have no right to lecture Turkey when the Court of Human Rights has not yet carried out its verdict, and we do not allow such hypocrisy, such a double standard. (EC PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) I have to say this very clearly. Our Ministry of Justice is already working on the appeal, which I'd like to bring to your attention. Our Minister of Justice gives us the necessary information, informs us of the steps to take. There's really been a lot of discussion here today. I want to thank everyone who has given my thanks and wish our budget well, and thank you very much for your support in our budget. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0605par0343	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0606par0344	Mr. President, with the name mentioned...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0605par0345	Yes, Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0607par0346	Mr. President, we talked about this first, but...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0606par0347	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to make my evaluations after the talks of the executive group are finished, but our MP has made a direct name for our group member, Hishyar Ozsoy, and we demand that he be given a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0608par0349	Yes, I will make a promise to Mr. Ozsoy, but I have already promised Mr. Arslan. Mr. Arslan, I give you my word from your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0609par0352	We're not done talking about the executives!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0610par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0354	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0355	Wait a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0356	No, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0357	Mr. Turan...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0358	We don't bother for a minute, of course, our friends to talk to, but the last time we were given names during the day, you said, "Talk about all of us." There's no other way for us to get to HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0613par0359	Double standard.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0360	Mr. Turan, I have no such attitude...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0361	Mr. President, the matter is... let our congressman speak.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0362	Complete, complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0363	Mr. President, that's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0364	Mr. Turan, I don't see any reason why my attitude is wrong. I told you...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0611par0365	Mr. President, you've been doing this all morning, it doesn't suit you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0366	Mr. Turan, please... Now, I've told you before, I'll promise you when you ask for an open taunt in the face of public bullying. I explained this privately on the question of Mr. Free Special. I have stated that I will meet the demands of the members of the group's chair after the talks have been completed on behalf of the groups; the transcripts are here. As I opened the merger in the morning, I made this statement on the question of Mr. Special. Now, Mr. Secretary has just made some assessments of Mr. Ozsoy directly. I think it's all about teasing. That's why I'm going to promise to 69, but I've already promised Mr. Kazim Arlen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0614par0369	It doesn't suit you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0370	Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0615par0373	Mr. President, I need to make a statement regarding the photo our Minister of Industry has shown me, specifically by pointing out to me. The Tirsan firm was founded in 1947 and continued to work there in 2004 by moving to the Manisa Organised Industrial Region. So this factory we're going to, it's being photographed, it's not a new factory. We didn't go there to the opening. That factory had already opened an RD center, and we went there as a commission just to study it, and I condemn the photo that we took there together, to present here as if we were at the factory opening and to actually mock my memory, and I condemn him.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0376	Thank you, Mr. lion. Mr. Varank, do you wish to make a statement?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0616par0378	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0379	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0616par0381	Mr. President, I don't think it's a big deal, but the other MPs who were with us that day, the lawmakers who were here, they can go talk to them. What we visited, what it wasn't, when it went into production, anyone can take a look at it and test it. So, I didn't mean to insult you, and that's how I compromise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0382	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0617par0383	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0384	Mr. Ozoy, do you want to talk about your position or your position?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0617par0385	If you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0386	I promise you two minutes from the bench according to 69.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0618par0387	Mr. President, shouldn't you ask why?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0619par0388	Don't be coy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0389	Mr. Coral Danış Beştaş has just explained, so I said I would do this practice, Mr. Bostanci.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0619par0390	I explained it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0612par0391	Here you go, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0620par0394	Thank you. Friends, it's late at night... Mr. Minister, Mr. Mevlüt, you started very gently, but you finished very hard. It started with thanks to all of us. This is serious, guys. Well, I personally have no fear of anyone, Mr. Secretary. We talked about a situation here, and we said: "We, as HDP -- as myself -- think that the Syrian policy of the Republic of Turkey has been significantly disabled from the beginning." That's my opinion, you may disagree, you may not agree, you do different things. We said... Look, now, memory's a big deal, guys. In my speech, I specifically asked, and I insisted: "Friends, between 2013 and 15 was a precious period -- the climate may be blowing away now -- a period of time when people didn't die, problems were spoken of." We couldn't solve it, we made a mistake, they did it, everyone did it, it was a separate matter. We're saying something else, Mr. Secretary, that between 2013 and 15, Salih Müslim, who you now call a terrorist, came to this country at the invitation of this government. Guys, he's here, look, he's here; he might be on the terror list.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0621par0397	Were you able to say a word to the PKK, a word to the PKK? It's a word about what he does to girls, what he does to women, not much, it's a word about rapes, it's not that hard...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0620par0398	Now, we're saying something else.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0622par0399	Is Turkey a scavenger or not? Say it, repeat it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0620par0400	We're saying, guys, we're saying... Now I'm saying something -- Minister, I really don't -- I mean, it's a very simple thing: every criticism we open, every review we do, the PKK, the PKK -- this, my friends, is easyness; it's not true. Whatever PKK is doing, it does not make it right that the state of the Republic of Turkey should replace more than 150,000 people in Afrin.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0623par0401	There are over 300,000 Syrian Kurds, why aren't they returning?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0620par0402	Let's discuss it separately if you want to. Look, you said: "Now other people have gone and settled in that area."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0623par0404	300,000 Syrian Kurds, why aren't they returning? That's what I asked you. Answer the question I asked.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0624par0405	Say a word to the PKK and we'll discuss it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0625par0406	You can't say they're tops and bottoms.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0626par0407	I mean, please... Complete it, Mr. Ozsoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0627par0409	They don't come one at a time, which they all say from somewhere, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0626par0410	Okay, you finish up, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0627par0411	Dear friends, we don't want to get too involved in the pollen. When the new Middle East of the Republic of Turkey is being established, we say it can only bring Kurds into the position of quarterback, not as a beca threat, but as a friend. Turn around from your mistakes, we don't have a problem with polemics with anyone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0628par0412	Kurds and Turks are brothers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0627par0413	We have no fear of God, nor of anyone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0628par0414	Kurds and Turks are brothers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0627par0415	I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0629par0416	Thank you, Mr. Ozoy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0628par0417	You didn't even get a sentence to the PKK.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0629par0418	Now, in the name of execution, I promise...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0630par0419	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0631par0420	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0629par0421	We'll promise you a question-and-answer anyway.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0632par0422	Give it to me, sir. Give it to me now.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0629par0423	If you want, you can answer collectively, or it'll turn into a mutual conversation, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0633par0424	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0632par0425	Sir, you just gave it to me from the stand, sir, why don't you give it to me?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0634par0426	You're giving it to me according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0635par0427	No, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0632par0428	What the hell!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0635par0429	You've clearly said something here, so please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0636par0430	You were very balanced, but you were surprised when it came to HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0637par0431	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0638par0432	Mr. President, the vice president of the group wants a word.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0639par0433	Please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0637par0434	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0639par0435	I'll make a promise to the group presidents later, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0637par0436	I'd like to say something about style. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0640par0486	The last word for the executive is for National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar. Here you are, Mr. Akar. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Your time is 25 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0641par0490	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, under the roof of the Veteran Assembly, I salute you and our esteemed citizens before I begin my words. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and his comrades, the saints who sacrificed their lives for the flagging homeland, and all our heroic veterans and all our members, are grateful and grateful, and I wish our veterans well and well. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In addition, I give my regards and thanks to all of my colleagues and colleagues and pensioners who have worked hard to come here at every level, especially in the Turkish Armed Forces, and have completed their duties and started a new life. Also, I wish my friends, who are now serving in the country and abroad, in the snow, in the winter, in the mountains, and in the mountains, the heroic and the selfless weapons and the overtime, the good and the bad, the successful. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I'm going to try to give you some information and some of our thoughts as quickly as possible. I'd also like to thank all the participants today who have been reporting their defence and security proposals throughout the day. As they know, defence and security are out of political polemics and competition, and the common denominator of our political parties is a whole nation and country issue. With that understanding, from the heart of our noble nation, the entire union and institutions of the National Ministry of Defence, especially the Turkish Armed Forces, are in charge of its nation today, in the light of the mind and the science that constitutes the essence of the Ataturk principles, and in the light of the constitution and the law, as it was yesterday, as it was. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the armed forces, with the power from the love and trust of our noble nation, continue to fight for the security and integrity of the holy homeland, the sovereignty and independence of our nation, especially the PKK, the PKK, the YPG, and the DEAS, against all kinds of threats and threats against domestic and border. Our struggle will continue until the last terrorist inland and across the border is neutralized. As remembered, terrorist organizations and extensions nested in Syria and Iraq staged despicable acts of terrorism in our country. Due to these acts of terrorism, large operations have been launched by the Turkish Armed Forces throughout the country and across the border since 24 July 2015. In these operations, Mehmetçik cannot enter. He has entered places called "Greetings." He has reached places called "Unreachable." While the Turkish Armed Forces successfully carried out these operations, PKK's terrorist organization has secretly moved its actions to city centers and has launched pit actions in some of our Southeast provinces and districts. The Turkish Armed Forces, the gendarmes, police, security guards, the property side by side with the commanders and judges, have eliminated this threat by burying terrorists in their pits without harm to innocent people, with the success of a few armies in the world. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] During this struggle, our country was subjected to a traitorous coup attempt on July 15, 2016. In the face of this betrayal against the Republic of Turkey, against our democracy and its fundamental values and its prestigious institutions, our noble nation, the high political leadership of our President, has become one body with all seven-to-seven members for the purposes of unity, unity and democracy, the Turkish Armed Forces, the gendarmes, and the patriots of our security forces, fighting side by side against this treacherous coup attempt. (AK PARTY and UMP rows) The glorious resistance of our beloved nation and the Veterans Congress against this treacherous coup attempt has taken its rightful place in the golden pages of our history. On the night of July 15th, the blood of the martyrs held our independence, and on the other hand, the unity and unity of our nation. Once again, I wish our martyrs mercy and peace on our veterans. Mr. President, lawmakers, while this is happening in our country, there have been significant developments that have directly affected our security beyond our borders. In Syria and Iraq, terrorist organizations and some foreign forces, particularly PKK/YPG and DEAS, have been persecuted and subjected to inhumane treatment by people in the region by dislodging millions of people from their homeland. These terrorist organizations, trying to change the demographic structure of the region, have also done great damage to the environment, cultural and historical heritage. Thus, Turkey has still hosted around 3.5 million Syrian and Iraqis, who have been exposed to refugee raids for years. The efforts of our country, which spent nearly 33 billion dollars to prevent the refugee crisis from spreading to Europe and other parts of the world, were unfortunately not supported enough by our allies. However, all support and efforts are being given, including cross-border operations, to ensure the safety of our country and our nation and also to establish security and stability in the region. As you know, Operation Fırat Shield launched on August 24, 2016, which was successfully completed only one month after the July 15 coup attempt to ensure border security against the DEAS threat, was completed on 29 March 2017. Contrary to unjust reports and comments made abroad and abroad in order to create a false perception, the Turkish Armed Forces are the only army to fight the DEAŞ hand-to-hand with it. Our armed forces have neutralized over 3,000 radical DEA terrorist groups in this operation. Security measures are still being implemented in the region, and on the other hand, daily life is still being normalized. The operation of Operation Olive Branch, launched on 20 January 2018 under our international law-related rights, has been neutralized by more than 4,500/YPG members of the DEAS terrorist organization. The planning and execution of the Fırat Shield and Operation Olive branch was targeted only by terrorists, weapons, vehicles and buildings belonging to them; civilian, innocent, religious, cultural structures, historical artifacts and archaeological remains and facilities operating in public interest have been shown as no other country has shown. On the other hand, the Turkish Armed Forces, which serve in the area of Idlib to reduce tensions in order to increase the effectiveness of the ceasefire and end conflicts under the Astana Covenant, continue to operate at 12 observation points in the region since 13 October 2017. With the participation of the heads of state of the three countries, the first was held in Ankara on April 4, 2018, and the third was held in Tehran on September 7, 2018. As part of the summit, Turkey's determination to oppose forces aimed at weakening its sovereignty and territorial integrity and the sovereignty of neighbouring countries has been confirmed. Especially with the personal efforts of our President and the positive approach of Mr. Putin. On September 17, 2018 at the Sochi Summit of Sochi, Turkey and Russia signed at the end of the agreement. The ceasefire and stability of Idlib was achieved by preventing a humanitarian disaster and the political process. On October 27, 2018, a summit was held in Istanbul with the participation of the heads of state and government of Russia, France and Germany in Syria. In this case, our work on the implementation of Sochi Court continues successfully despite the provocations in the region. Mr. President, lawmakers, our activities in Menbic have been carried out in accordance with the Menbic Road Map and Security Principles, which have been established as a result of various levels of contact with the United States of America. Our goal here is to ensure that the PKK/YPG evacuates all of the Menbic (the PKK/YPG), the gathering of heavy weapons, the securing of security and stability of the region, the transfer of the administration to the Menbicli, and finally the Syrian return to their homes in safety. Although the US has promised that the PKK/YPG will be removed from Menbic, it has been determined that the terrorist organization has dug holes in Menbic, preparing positions. If the issue is closely followed and the commitments are not observed, if the promises are not kept, as in other areas, when the time and place will come, the terrorists here will be buried in the pits they dug. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, lawmakers, with the support of the leading members of the international community, including our country, have achieved significant successes in Iraq against the DEAŞ, the DEA has reached the end of operations, but the PKK remains in the north of Iraq. Our expectation from the Iraqi government is that the PKK's separatist terrorist organization will cooperate with us to end its existence on Iraqi soil. I would like to point out that we respect the political and territorial integrity of Iraq, Syria and all of our neighbours, but our operations will continue until the PKK terror organization is completely wiped out of their position for the safety of our country and our nation. (EA/DG) In this area, an air operation was carried out on December 13, 2018, against terrorist-used terror nests in the areas of Sincar and Karcak Mountain, which are located in the north of Iraq. As always, during this operation, all efforts were made to ensure that the civilian population and the environment were not harmed. Sincar would never be allowed to become a new Kandil. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Mr. President, lawmakers, as we've always expressed with great sincerity, we want the current problems in the Aegean and the Mediterranean to be resolved with an approach to peace, friendship and cooperation within the framework of international law and good neighbourly relations. However, in Cyprus, in the Aegean, and in the Eastern Mediterranean, we say on every occasion that we will never allow any steps or actions of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean, that there is no chance of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to live, that we will never allow them to succeed. In this framework, the Turkish Armed Forces will continue to protect the rights and interests of our country and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean, as collateral for peace and security under international guarantees and alliance agreements on the island of Cyprus. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] In the Black Sea, as you know, the Montrö Convention, the basic document for Turkey, provides a delicate balance for all countries. With this contract, security in the Black Sea and responsibility were granted to the main and main coastal states in its preservation. Turkey's Black Sea policy is also based on this idea of regional ownership. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, in the light of operations and activities carried out across 462,000 square miles of country, 472,000 square miles of blue country, and across the border, it is clear that the fate of this geography is the fate of Turkey as much as the fate of geography. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] The current security environment requires international cooperation, including national efforts, as well as our activities within NATO. A common will exists between NATO member states to develop military abilities. In this framework, the 2014 Welsh Summit adopted the Defence Investments Act, which envisioned the allocation of at least 2 per cent of the illegal domestic product by 2024. In this direction, Mr. President, at the 2017 and 2018 summits in Brussels, they have stated that we aim to level our defence spending. In addition to the successful counterterrorism operations we have conducted across the domestic and border, we have taken responsibility and responsibility in various geographys of the world, in accordance with the duties of NATO, the United Nations, the European Union and the OSCE, as well as our history, our culture and seven climates, as well as our ancestors who bring peace, peace and justice to three continents. We are contributing to the region and world peace, from Afghanistan, from Bosnia and Herzegovina to Qatar, from Lebanon to Sudan, and from Somalia to the Gulf of Eden, as well as to the fact that we support many missions and operations in the region and the world. In this framework, it is our right to expect cooperation and solidarity in common issues, which are a priority for our allies in the fight against terrorism. Mr. President, lawmakers, the air defense system is not a choice for our country to be subjected to significant air and missile threats, it is a necessity. With the supply of S-400 systems from the Russian Federation, our country will have gained an important air defence ability. The technology transfer and the work we started to develop our own national systems through joint production are conducted by our allies, Eurosam, a partnership in Italy and France. Moreover, a request letter was sent to the United States for the supply of the Patriot system, but there has yet to be an answer to our request by the United States. We are also taking the first step towards our domestic and nationally long-range air and missile defense project, SIPER. On the other hand, the F-35 program continues as planned. The first two planes were delivered on 21 June 2018. Pilot and maintenance training continues in Arizona, America. In March 2019, two flights will take place in the United States until the end of 2020 for four aircraft pilots and maintenance training, while the 5th and 6th flights will be launched to Malatya on 30 November 2019. Mr. President, the MPs have been discharged from the Turkish Armed Forces since 15 July, and 3154 personnel have been discharged from the Turkish Armed Forces, including 150 generals, admirals, 7,595 officers, 5,723 petty officers, 1,257 chiefs of staff, private, contractors and 429 civil servants, as well as 429 civil servants, and 326 employees who have been discharged have been extradited, and the process is ongoing. Our fight will continue with determination until the last connected personnel are cleared of the National Ministry of Defence. Due to a reduction in personnel support rates following July 15th, staff supply activities have been launched and a total of 51,326 personnel have been provided. As the Turkish Armed Forces, which are a large family of our fallen relatives and veterans, are wiped out by terrorists, it has experienced a numerical decline, while it increases its efficiency, deterrents and dignity, with the sacrifice and heroism of our comrades loyal to its homeland, its nation, its flag. If I die, the martyr, the veteran. The members of the Turkish Armed Forces, who have sworn willingly that they would not hesitate to sacrifice their lives for the sake of the country, the republic and the mission, continue to carry out their duties with heroism and sacrifice. Mr. President, lawmakers, the application process of 635,582 of our citizens has been completed as part of paying military service, the basic training of 86,000 of them has ended, and the training of the remaining responsibilities is under way. On the other hand, the age limit in exchange for military training has been lifted, remote training, allowing our young people and citizens to carry out military service from their places. With regard to our citizens' educational situation and professional occupations, the work of the new military system, including shortening their military term, continues intensively with relevant ministries and institutions, in order for everyone to do their military service at the appropriate time. At the National Defence University, organised to meet the quality and training needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, there are still 11,406 staff training, including visiting military students. What can be done for our heroic veterans, whose undivisable integrity, the sovereignty and independence of our noble nation, who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of our beloved martyrs, and who have entrusted part of their bodies to the land of our homeland. With this consciousness, the loyalty of our state and nation is far beyond any other country. In addition to other ministries and institutions in charge, the National Ministry of Defence is being sensitive and enthusiastic about its support for martyrs and relatives and our heroic veterans. On this occasion, our beloved martyrs, our heroic veterans, who have come to eternity, once again remember them with mercy and gratitude; I give thanks and thanks to our heroic veterans, to the precious families of our martyrs and veterans. Mr. President, lawmakers, every effort is being taken to ensure the modernisation of our army based on the maximum domesticity and nationality criteria, to provide faster, quality, security, and cost effective supply of other services he needs. In particular, I'd like to point out that we're implementing a model of goods and brands based on Mehmetchik's healthy diet. On the other hand, the rate of locality and nationality, 65 per cent in the framework of defence industry breakthroughs, is increasing day by day. There are some examples of that, and I'm passing them. Mr. President, lawmakers, it is possible to ensure the safety of our country and our nation, as I have already stated, at any moment, with an effective, deterrent and respected army. While drafting the budget proposal for 2019, it is also considered to contribute to the process of providing financial discipline. The budget proposal for 2019, which was prepared with this consciousness, was introduced to you at 46 billion, 462 million, 303,000 liras. The final account proposal for 2017, including the national Ministry of Defence's initial budget of 2017 and the amount added under the legislation, was presented to the General Assembly's commendations. The National Defence Ministry budget proposal for 2019 was prepared for the eventful fulfillment of the tasks assigned to the Turkish Armed Forces, the creation of the force structure to do so, modernisation of the age's requirements, and the rise of combat and preparation for war. Mr. President, members of parliament, who are representatives of the noble Turkish nation at a maximum level meets our needs, believes that the National Ministry of Defence will consider the budget proposal in 2019; wishes that our budget be good for our country, our nation, our Armed Forces; I thank you for your attention and patience, and I salute you and our citizens once again.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0642par0535	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Manisa MP Free Special, who wants a word against you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Special, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0539	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, we're discussing budgets for Industry and Technology, National Defence and Foreign Affairs. Of course, all ministers ask the House for support in their budgets. However, you want us to approve a budget that excludes science, science, and research, and also a budget that allows us to approve what kind of Defense Ministry and a Defence Minister budget, which has taken serious defeats in diplomacy, despite the tradition of the foreign speaker, which has led us to many disasters by ignoring the balance of diplomacy.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0644par0541	The system's changed, the system!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0542	When he joined the army in 1972, he had this dream in 2015 for a man who wanted to one day become Chief of Staff, like all military students in the army. However, this Chief of Staff, our current Minister, will face some criticism today. Now that he's taken off the uniform, since he's become political, he's entered a political party without resigning -- we've heard of his resignation -- he's going to have some criticism. When I was commander of the Third Corps, it was said that in cases that we all now, but only the Republican People's Party and a handful of brave patriots, all the victims of the conspiracy, the officer, the petty officer, the admiral, the general, were waiting for something, to come forward and find out that it was a conspiracy. They were expecting an effective expert witness. Today's National Defence Minister appointed his own executive officer; everyone was surprised; Ahmet Erdogan wrote a terrible expert opinion and concluded that the sledgehammer was real, and all dreams collapsed. That Ahmet Erdogan is on the run today, my friends. In 2013, when the Turkish Armed Forces' appointment and promotion order were fully in the hands of.., our proof is that 15 of the 25 ground colonels made general in 2013, 8 of the nine Navy colonels who were admirals, 8 of them were banished on the day after July 15th. The Army Commander General Bekir Kalyoncu is expected at that age, but unlike all expectations and regulations, the current Minister of Defense will be appointed. A few months after the U.S.A. began to give the YPG a weapon in a public manner, Odierno (now Minister of National Defence) was awarded the medal of superior merits in 2003 from the man who put a sack over Mehmetçik (the head of Süleymaniye). This is from the U.S. Commander who put a bag over Mehmet Çikik. Years after the sack incident and weeks after the shipment of weapons to the YPG. Who are we talking about now? On July 15th, 1.5% of those who reported the coup and were involved in the coup were 98.5 percent; while their former counterparts were 98.5 percent; no one would have left their troops. If the order had been given, 98.5 would not have been involved in that 1.5 coup when they were there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Who are we talking about, guys? There's a secret witness whose name is Abdullah, whom you can't read from New Dawn and fit into the sky. Abdullah clearly says in the Black Aviation case... that the most important vein of all the people he spoke to has been deciphered. New Dawn writers cannot fit Abdullah to the ground. Abdullah uses a statement that says: "Hulusi Akar is our brother, who has served many times so far, and will then have a great service. You will all see that service, it will be a great service. One who has said Abdullaha, who is he? Fetullah Smiley said it. That's not what I'm saying, it's from your esteemed confidential witness, Abdullah. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As a constitutional amendment to the regime is about to take place, while opposition parties are looking for a candidate, we're talking about the Ministry of National Defense, a helicopter with the president of the MIT, who landed in the previous president's garden and cast the shadow of epolets and militantism in that election. If the uniform is out, Mr. Secretary of Defense will be criticised in democracies, and the Chief of Staff will be criticised. But the most important criticism is that, most importantly, your heroic fellow patriots, with your significant flaws, with your deliberate flaws...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0645par0551	Complete, Mr. Special. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0553	... Your friends in the trial, your friends in the struggle, your comrades in arms...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0646par0554	That's not true, Mr. Special, that's not true.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0555	... Your friends who were willing to die shoulder-to-shoulder with you, while they were all in prison, the biggest criticisms are to me, to the Dauphin, and Nurettin Demir (e.g. the Prison Commission) not to visit us once. We would like to ask you about your visits, which you did not attend, when you did not attend the funeral of Murat Özenalp, who died in Maltepe Prison. One, Nuri Pakdil. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) *1923 is the period of detachment from our values.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0647par0557	He's done well, he's done well, we're applauding.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0558	Give it up. Your visit to Nuri Pakdil, which says Ataturk (Ataturk) to Firaun (Pakdil), is applauded by your group, and we applaud this group, my friends. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!]
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0647par0559	Well done, well done. She's going to visit Nuri Pakdil. What do you mean? Do you know who Nuri Pakdil is? You're not ashamed.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0560	I continue: Now, look, will you remember this visit? Mehtap Yilmaz, a writer of the daily Akit, who made it a habit to insult Turkish Armed Forces.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0648par0562	Mr. Special, one last minute. Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0564	Mr. Akar is visiting Mehtap Yilmaz, in his uniform. Come on, stand by this visit...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0649par0565	I thought you were looking out for reporters. Not the reporters you're looking for?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0566	...because this was Mehtap Yilmaz's room in Çankaya Mansion, near the room of Ataturk. Together, but alone. When she was a vile woman to write about shamelessness.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0649par0568	You're exploiting Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0643par0569	...that Mehtap Yilmaz is 15 years old, officially exposing his closeness to Ataturk. You visited this shameless woman, Mr. Akar. Mr. Secretary, you visited an unconscious, immoral, unconscionable slanderer who claimed that Ataturk was with his spiritual daughter first, then drinking alcohol and then having sex with her. We, the Republican People's Party, respect the authorities, but I wish you hadn't made such a General Staff. If it wasn't for the General Staff, if it wasn't for the State Department of Defense.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0650par0572	Thank you, Mr. Special. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the talks on the seventh round are complete. Now we're going to question-answer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0651par0576	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0650par0577	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0651par0578	Mr. President, members of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0650par0579	Mr. Secretary, wait, please. Now, I'm going to give the Minister two minutes to debrief this conversation from his place. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0652par0582	Why? Why doesn't the Minister answer here when he's doing that insult here?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0650par0583	He's demanding a position, so don't speak for him. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0653par0585	Put him on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0654par0586	Should I come to the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0650par0587	If you want it on the stand, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0654par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0655par0590	Tell me about Ali Tatar, and give me the account of Ali Tatar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0656par0592	Sit down! You're rude!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0655par0593	Tell me about Ali Tatar!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0657par0595	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0655par0596	Give me the account of Ali Tatar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0658par0597	Sit down!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0659par0598	Sit down! You're rude!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0655par0599	Tell me about Ali Tatar!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0658par0600	Cut!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0660par0601	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0602	He's on the stand, he's on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0660par0603	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0605	Is that what we did when you were on the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0660par0606	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the speaker has come to the stand, please hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0608	Is that what we did when you were on the stand? Is that what we did when you were on the stand? He's on the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0609	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0610	You're the one!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0663par0611	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0613	Tell me about your brother's brother, your brother's brother!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0614	You're the one!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0615	You're family!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0616	You're the best!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0617	You're a family man!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0618	You son of a bitch! Look at your brother! Dog!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0619	You're a family man! Where's your sister, you fucker!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0620	You're rude!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0662par0621	You're a family man! You're a family man! Where's your sister?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0661par0622	You son of a bitch! You're an asshole! You're a dog!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0664par0624	Guys, you're being rude!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit07spe0665par0625	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0665par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of Turkey's 35th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. The commission is in place. The last time, I promised Mr. Hulusi Akar. Would you like to use your position or the bench, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0666par0006	I'll take it from here.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0665par0007	You want to use your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0666par0011	Thank you. However, it is impossible to answer us in two minutes - seven minutes or ten minutes - by targeting us, our own person, my own person. It's completely personal.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0665par0013	I'll give you an additional minute, Mr. Secretary, according to the Civil Code decrees, I'll use my powers in that direction. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0667par0015	What a minute!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0668par0016	Reboot, sir. Reboot.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0669par0017	Thank you. First of all, after presenting defenses and security issues, which are a matter of state and nation, with great sincerity, I hereby condemn, at last, and condemn, and at the middle of this conversation, which is clearly pre-prepared and personal. (AK PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) That's the first one. Secondly, I really thank our friend for these issues, because it was an opportunity for everyone who knew to talk about things, because it was an opportunity for us to respond to people who were just listening to things that were in court files, not knowing what was in government records, not knowing what was in their records. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Number one: I don't have an expert witness report, everyone knows that, it's in all the records.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0670par0023	You did!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0671par0024	Congressmans, please... Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0026	In all the records, if examined...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0671par0028	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0029	Guys, listen up, listen up!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0671par0030	Mr. Secretary, please, let's keep this quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0031	In all the records, the person called Ahmet Erdogan knows that he is not my executive officer, that he is not my custodian, that he is not appointed as an expert, that he is with me, but that such an assignment was made by the other staff, all of them; examine;
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0673par0033	Is it your gold or not?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0034	Second, a martyr... we had martyrs, you know, or not... so, when we went to Gaziantep Hospital to visit our wounded, in that uniform that our friend showed us, Kara, Deniz, Air Force Commander...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0673par0035	Is this Mehtap Yilmaz a soldier?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0036	Listen, listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0674par0038	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0673par0039	Don't shout! Don't shout!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0040	Listen! Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0675par0041	Don't shout!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0672par0042	Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0676par0044	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0677par0045	I'm not your soldier! Why are you shouting!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0676par0046	Mr. Agha... Mr. Secretary, please... (CHP rows) Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0678par0048	Answering, friends, please... Congressmans, please, I'm responding, listen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0676par0049	Mr. Secretary, please respond calmly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0678par0050	Listen! Listen! Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0679par0052	Don't shout! Don't shout!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0680par0053	Why are you yelling!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0678par0054	Listen! At the door, I was greeted by the chancellor, the governor, the mayor, at the door of the Antwerp State Hospital, and with the chancellor...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0681par0056	Congressmans, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0678par0057	...we visited our veterans with the head of the hospital. During this visit, we took the elevator upstairs, and we're walking down. Right there, as I walked through the door, here lies my wife, my wife... We went in, I saw that she was the reporter lady. Serum, hi, we just wanted to make sure you're okay.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0682par0058	Did you find out?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0683par0059	Do you regret it? Do you regret it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0678par0060	We said get well soon, yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0683par0061	Say "I'm sorry." Say "I'm sorry."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0684par0062	None of your business!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0683par0063	Do you regret it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0685par0064	Mr. Special...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0686par0065	Oh, we've got witnesses, all of them.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0683par0067	Do you regret it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0685par0068	Dear Private, please... Dear Private... Congressmans, please let's keep the peace.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0070	And we sat there for a minute or two and then we got up and we moved on.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0685par0071	Mr. Secretary, please, make your statements calmly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0072	Sir, he didn't visit his friends here in Hasdal. Those who don't visit his friends are scoundrels. Look, your MP Mehmet Ali lives there, Mehmet Ali, how many times have I been here? I'm not out of the woods. I took every risk to make my friends' lives easier. Despite the coroner's office, despite the prosecutor, I took every risk against the warden.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0688par0073	You're in command of the Corps, and you're not saying he's gone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0075	Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0689par0076	Is that supposed to be a question-and-answer thing, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0690par0077	Mr. Special...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0078	Sir, the other thing is, it's a big deal, this medal thing, it's all wrapped up in tongues. Friends, members of lawmakers, non-knowers, please turn it on, look at the Internet, it's like a custom, it's -- I'll tell you what -- when you get to America...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0690par0081	Go ahead, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0083	...no one's getting a medal, and that doesn't mean anything. We've been there, and they've been there. We don't have demands, we don't have anything.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0691par0084	The guy who put a bag over the soldier's head, did you know that?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0690par0085	Dear Private... Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0086	Wait a minute, I'll tell you that. I don't... Now, I'm not protecting Odierno there, but refresh your knowledge, not this.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0088	This, this, this!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0089	No, it's not!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0090	That's it, that's
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0687par0091	Oh, my God! It's not!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0092	It's everywhere, this.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0693par0093	Mr. Secretary, there's no need to talk to each other, so please make your comments.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0094	I swear to God!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0694par0095	Friends, one important thing and another, sir: I went to Nuri Pakdil. I didn't go to the head of the terrorist organization, I-I'll tell my master- I didn't go to the thief, I didn't go to the jinx. Sir, we're going to visit a patient, an art and state man who was awarded a prize by the Ministry of Tourism, a State Medal by our President. Is it a crime to visit? Also, before you tell me, is it a crime for our teacher to take Necip Fazil Shortfurek to high school?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0097	Ataturk, he says, "Firavun," he says, "Ataturk," he says, "Firavun" (Pharaoh)!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0694par0098	But what do they call the Ataturk, the nation, the flag, why don't you see them?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0692par0100	I see it, and you don't see it; and he says, "Ataturk (astrophy)."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0695par0101	Surveillance of the military...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0696par0102	Please, not mutually. Mr. Secretary, continue with your statements. Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0104	Sir, I'm finishing, I'm finishing. Friends, another important thing, and for that, I thank you, for giving us such an opportunity: There's no mention of a coup until the end of the day, on July 15th, I swear, there's no such thing. At 6:30 p.m., when we heard about such a kidnapping, an isolated kidnapping, at 6:30 p.m.... He's talking to the unknown, his pensioner, his usual. That's not true. The order I gave at 18.30 is in the files of the court itself. The order I gave at 18.30 is to land the planes, not to lift the plane. At 7:20 a.m., I'm giving this order as an example, at Kars, I'll tell my master in Kars, at the airport at 19.10, on the Air Force Commander's phone, all spread from the base of operations there; one. Two: At about 8:30, those bastards came in and put a gun to our heads. They said, "You're going to get us." And I refused. How many of you can say no when you have a gun in your head -- think about it when you're in bed?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0698par0108	We're in. You gave those guns to him!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0109	Don't tell me unless you try! Don't tell me unless you try! Try it, try it!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0698par0111	You try, you try!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0112	Friends, I'm here to tell you everything that Mr. Special...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0698par0114	They all have a logical explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0115	I'm listening carefully. I'm asking you, I'm asking the AK PARTY Group, please look at the files, look at the files, all of which have clear, boastful answers. They took him to the raider, and all around us were men of arms, and many soldiers, and I sat alone, and they put two pages before me in front of all those scoundrels, and they said, "Read this, and sign it." They said, "I didn't sign it." [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] At the Republican People's Party of the Republic, our eternal Commander-in-Chief Ataturk, in a matter Mr. Special has not even told the terrorists, has not told the terrorist organizations...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0698par0119	How could I not?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0120	I served forty-nine years, forty-nine years, forty-nine years in front of all the prosecutors, in front of all the MPs, in front of the judges, in front of the generals, in front of the admirals, forty-nine years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0699par0122	Way to go!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0700par0123	Don't wave your finger!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0697par0124	He doesn't know that a Chief of Staff has resigned, so whether you know it or not, he's not my problem. I'm retired.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0700par0125	You didn't retire!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0701par0126	You didn't retire! First you became Minister, then you carried out the formalities.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0702par0128	Mr. Secretary, I'll give you one more minute. Put him through, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0703par0130	I'm retired, and after retirement... why does it bother you so much that democracy has developed like this, that the Ataturk ideals have come true, that we're going to a troubled civilization? And I condemn it. I wish there wasn't a Deputy Director of the Group like you at our Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0704par0132	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0702par0133	Hold, please, Mr. Special. Now, from now on, my commitments to the group presidents will be two minutes, and I won't give you an extension because if we continue this discussion further, we won't be able to complete the budget today. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0705par0136	President, what do you promise that you need? He made a claim, and it was answered. Why do you need new pollen?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0702par0137	Congressman, allow me to lead. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0706par0140	Mr. President, one, there may be people you're going to scold from the top down for years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0707par0141	There's a provocateur!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0706par0142	You no longer have the right to scold the chosen ones, as an appointed man, but be modest! [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Two: You have an alibi for everything; you can't say: "I regret visiting this woman." You don't say, "I regret visiting this woman." You don't say, "I regret visiting this woman." You don't say, "I'm sorry." (AK PARTY RINGS) Stop, stop! Wait!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0708par0145	Please, Mr. Lawmakers...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0706par0146	Second: You don't say that I was appointed with eight admirals and nine generals in 15 years.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0709par0147	Where were you then?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0708par0148	Mr. Secretary, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0706par0149	You did the cleaning of Ballioz, Ergenekon districts, and I went down the highway. You don't say that. You're saying if it wasn't for a Group Vice President like you... Now, my last word, Mr. Hulusi Akar, look at my party, and I wish there wasn't a member of the group like the Free Special. You're the guy who took the curse of his comrades!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0710par0152	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0711par0153	Here you go, Mr. Rich. I promise you for two minutes, I've already told you how long I'm not going to extend it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0710par0156	Mr. President, the most valuable MPs...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0711par0158	Please, dear MPs... please... Congressmans, please let's keep the peace. We're making a promise to everyone as much as possible, trying to get statements made.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0712par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0713par0162	By the way, the death anniversary of Ali Tatar is tomorrow. Why don't you go to a condolence, Ali Tatar? It's the anniversary of his death tomorrow!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0711par0163	If you help us, we will be able to conduct this discussion in a more mature way. [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Mr. Agha, please... Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0714par0167	Mr. President, I mean, it's impossible to take a legal word, you can say anything when you're promised a pirate. A word has to be on time to make sense. I've been asking for word for an hour and a half. Yes, you've made a rule. I will not promise the deputy presidents of the group. So, after we hear the word "truck," what if we take the word "truck," you hear the word "truck"? The problem is that once, there can be no categorical difference between a minister in the parliamentary system and the minister in our new system that is now in existence, there can be no categorical difference. (CHP rows) No one has the right in this Parliament to insult ministers based on law, a constitution approved by the nation's referendum! So there's no point in yelling, "It's been posted and assigned every minute." Minister brother, Minister!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0715par0170	Technician!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0716par0171	Officer, officer!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0714par0172	No, Minister. So no one in this country can address a congressman or a minister when they're talking. Please, for once, be careful when everyone's talking. And after that, the whole...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0716par0173	And no one's going to point a finger at a public defender!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0714par0174	I'm not waving fingers, I'm saying you're thirsty.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0717par0176	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0718par0177	President, you can't direct!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0714par0178	...that those who carry on political fiction in common with the politicians can't talk about democracy, about law. What are you behind about the coup? All this talk you're doing is talking about a coup, that's all.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0717par0180	Thank you, Mr. Rich. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. I won't give you an extension for two minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0719par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. We were asking questions to the State Department, but instead of answering our questions, the Secretary of State tried to give us the same old attitude. I mean, first of all, we don't know anyone who's gonna give us a hard time. Besides, we're...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0717par0187	Congressmans, please listen.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0719par0188	...we don't have to do politics within the limits set by you. We are not six of you, and there is no difference between us in the hierarchy. Now you insist that you will determine the future of the Syrian people. The Syrian people have the right to decide their own destiny, never forget that. And indeed, as appointed minister, I forbid you to say, "You are afraid, we are defending you."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0720par0191	Well, well!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0719par0192	We express our thoughts everywhere, all the time, in the way we want. You don't have to laugh, it doesn't really suit the institution you're in! And finally, you run a foreign policy with lies and slanders. This can only make your own followers happy. But when you are tried at the International Criminal Court tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, you will say again, "We have been deceived." But then there will be no one to believe you. We didn't laugh when we listened to you, but your current laugh proves how idle you are.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0721par0195	Oh, come on! Oh, come on!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0719par0196	This demonstrates the hypocrisy of AKP politics. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0722par0199	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0723par0200	I want a word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0722par0201	It'll be your turn in a moment, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. You've got two minutes. I won't give you an extension, so I'll remind you again.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0724par0206	Mr. President, I believe that these talks we've witnessed tonight will remain a night in Turkey, in Turkish politics that will mark our memory. I'm very sad, and my group is very sad. In Turkey, at a time when Turkey is known by all friendly enemies, during budget talks, when there are three ministers in front of us, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Industry and the Minister of National Defense who prepares a private speech and only the Milli Minister of Defence, who sees us in our geography, who bring the most violent attacks on the state of the Republic of Turkey to the most violent point, and who now, in Turkey, when we need a very different account and the establishment of the plots, the People's Party, and we need its most, I leave you to appreciate it. (HP and AK PARTY) Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0722par0207	Mr. Turkkan, you have a request. Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0210	Mr. President, in our culture, the Turkish Armed Forces is a prophet's furnace. We don't find it in our culture to do polemics in a place where the Prophet's stove budget is being discussed, so I'll pass on that. I, if you'll excuse me, would like to wrap some of that up for Mr. Varank and Mr. Sergeant. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0726par0212	Tell me something about this matter, Lütfü.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0213	It's about Polemics...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0726par0214	What polemics, Hyungnim?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0215	If you'll excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0727par0216	Please, don't interfere, friends, let's not interfere.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0217	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0727par0218	Let the Vice President of the Group speak, Mr. Group.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0728par0219	Say it. I didn't say it, I just said it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0220	I'll say it next time.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0729par0221	It's good for you to take care of the embassery.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0222	Look, I'll tell you one thing, and I repeat, the budget we're talking about is the National Department of Defense budget. It's a budget we'll give both here and at the Commission. So in a personalized matter, Mr. Secretary has already given the answer, and I don't think he needs my additional defense.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0730par0223	Did you vote on the commission? Did you vote on the commission?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0725par0224	I'm going to talk about the numbers Mr. Varank talked about about the Ministry of Industry budget. Industrial production is shrinking, Minister. I'll tell you, industrial production is down 5.7% from the same month last year. When the lower sectors of industry were examined, in October 2018, the industrial sector declined 6.5%; climate production -- electricity, gas -- by 1.2 per cent. And I'm gonna say a few things about the State Department, and we're running out of time. Our foreign minister said that we are with Palestine. From 2002 to 2017, our foreign trade volume with Israel has increased by 2.5 times, so how far are you on the side of Palestine, it's obvious here. One more thing I want to say: Israel was unanimously accepted into the organisation on May 4, 2016, with the support of Turkey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Turkey lifted the Israeli veto. I'd like to add that. And I'll give you a number on Syrian immigrants. Three hundred thousand Syrians have returned. You said. The Immigration Administration has just issued a number on December 8th; as of 2018, the number of Syrians registered in Turkey was 3,611,834. That's 17,602 more than the previous month, so there's no 300,000 people going, 17.602 more. I wanted to remind you of that.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0731par0231	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the talks on the seventh round are complete.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0732par0233	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0731par0234	Now, let's move on to the question and answer process.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0732par0235	Mr. President, Mr. President, I've asked for the word according to 60. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0731par0236	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0733par0238	Yeah, why don't you promise the heat?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0734par0239	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0735par0240	I'll give it to you. You said it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0736par0241	I will. You said, you didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0737par0242	I'll give it to you. You said it, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0738par0243	Mr. President, I'm sorry...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0244	Mr. Secretary, I'll explain.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0738par0245	You said you'd give it to me before the question-answer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0246	Mr. Secretary, look...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0738par0247	Mr. President, you're not making any promises.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0248	You demanded a word, I'll evaluate it, and now I'll explain to you why I didn't make a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0740par0249	I'll give it to you. You said it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0741par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0251	Have a seat.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0742par0252	When it came to HDP, you gave it to him from the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0253	Please, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0743par0254	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0744par0255	Mr. President, you promise everything...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0256	Mr. Secretary, you have no right to speak like this!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0745par0257	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0258	Look, don't say "look," not "look."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0745par0259	I said I have a right. I said I have a right.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0260	No, Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0745par0261	I've got a lot of teasing here.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0739par0262	I personally appreciate the right to speak according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0746par0264	You just told me, I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0747par0265	There's bullying, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0748par0266	I'll give it to you. You said it!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0749par0267	I know the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0750par0268	Now you have the right to question and answer.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0749par0269	No, questions and answers are one thing, but the vice president of the group insulted me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0750par0270	I won't promise anyone anymore, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0751par0271	Mr. President, you just said you'd promise.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0752par0272	Look, he spoke too hard, he insulted me. President, there's no way.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0753par0273	You just said you'd give it to me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0274	Mr. Secretary, please... yes, please take your seat.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0753par0275	But you just said you'd give it to me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0276	Sit down and wait and hear what I have to say.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0753par0277	When it comes to HDP, for some reason, democratism...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0278	Come in, please... It doesn't help anyone to go straight to accusations like this.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0755par0280	Then promise me.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0756par0281	But you do.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0282	I've been doing this all morning... now, look, I...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0757par0283	Mr. President, he has a say, a say.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0758par0284	I promise. You said it, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0285	Mr. Lawmakers, if you'll excuse me, the Minister will allow...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0759par0286	President, you were supposed to answer questions.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0758par0287	Here, let him speak, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0288	I'll explain it to him and promise, but please wait to hear it. I'm making a statement here.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0758par0289	When it comes to work, you give it to everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0290	With accusations like that, there's no way to do anything. Now, before you... let me make a statement, dear lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0760par0291	That's enough, you've been explaining all morning! You've been explaining for three hours all morning.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0294	It's been discussed on the Presidential Court. How shall we arrange to be promised without taunting the ministers, and there is no judgment in the Civil Code? In addition, the matter of speaking to ministers and giving them time to answer is not in the Civil Code. The New Civil Code did not include these issues, and the changes were not considered. I, too, have defended the view that there was no obstacle to making promises according to the ministers at that Council of Counsellors' meeting, according to 60, 69, if necessary. So I said that I would apply the relevant provisions of the Civil Code, but, Mr. Secretary, it is not right for you to enter a polemic with me in this way.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0761par0297	You said you'd give it to me!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0298	Listen to me... listen to me...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0761par0299	You said you would.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0300	I'll explain it to you, you're making accusations. I leave how I rule here to your discretion and the people's discretion. I'll promise you, I'll promise you an explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0762par0302	Mr. President, you yourself said that I would promise the Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0303	Please, Mr. Lawmakers... please... [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'll give you my word.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0763par0306	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0754par0307	According to 60, I give you one minute, two minutes. It's the Civil Code, Mr. Secretary, and you know I'll extend it if I have to, but it's in my discretion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0763par0311	Mr. President, first of all, we have our respect for our High Council and your Court, but I have listened to you very carefully today, and you said that you would not promise to tease at all, that you would promise everyone after the talks were over, but you promised the bench because of the bullying when it came to Mr. Hishyar. This is the contradiction with your previous practice, and I will promise you. You said before, then answer in question. You said, "This is my objection," and that's one. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Secondly, I brought up today in Syria, Iraq, with examples and witnesses of how the PKK and the YPG (YPG) persecuted Kurds, Süryans and the Yazidis, and claimed that the MPs here could not defend their rights without the permission of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), the YPG (YPG) to send them to Turkey, and the YPG controls 26 percent of Syrian territory, but I asked them why they could not go and why they could not, and that they could not, and that you could not defend their rights. (AK PARTI and MHP, applause from HDP rows) And I asked some questions.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0764par0314	You can't tell us that!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0765par0315	It doesn't suit you!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0763par0316	I've answered your questions, including the Human Rights Court.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0764par0317	You didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0763par0318	I asked some questions as I answered them, but you cannot answer these questions, you cannot speak without permission from the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). [[Noises from HDP rows]] Besides, I'm the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Turkey today, you're an MP; we have respect, we have respect for the High Assembly. You cannot forbid a human being from anything, let alone a foreign minister. Our relations with you -- excuse me -- are not like your relations with the PKK, but the PKK forbids you, but you cannot forbid me. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0766par0323	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0767par0324	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0768par0325	What, you don't even want to know what his alibi is?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0767par0326	Let the Deputy Director of the Group respond to this open accusation. [[AK PARTY and MHP row covers and noise]] Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0768par0329	For God's sake! Don't act like a partyer!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0769par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0770par0331	You're acting like a militant party there.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0771par0332	Congressmans, please... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0772par0334	You don't follow any rules, you don't follow your own rules. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0773par0335	You're being unfair, Mayor!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0774par0336	Really, I'm just smiling. You're trying to close your injustice by hitting the lines.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0775par0337	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, please...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0773par0338	That's not fair!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0775par0339	Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0776par0340	This can't be happening! You'll follow your rule first.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0773par0341	Mayor, I give up, I give up!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0775par0342	You go ahead, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0777par0343	Sure, we'll go out, you guys go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0778par0345	Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0775par0346	A brief statement, please.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0778par0347	Too short, too short. Mr. Secretary, he didn't say anything new, he repeated himself. I'll tell all of Turkey that he can't explain his relations with ISIS, how they put them in Afrin, Syria. We don't take orders from anyone. We're a law-abiding democratic party, but we know exactly who he's taking orders from and how he works. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Like the U.S. guards, right now, the MPs are screaming for our voices to be heard, but they can't suppress our voices.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0779par0352	Thank you, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0780par0353	Remember where you were leaning. Remember your resting place.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0779par0354	I promise you for a minute. Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0781par0357	Mr. President, when Ms. Coral spoke, she said, "We know who you are taking orders from. We don't take orders from anywhere, we don't want to give orders to anyone. We want it to be legal. I don't object to...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0782par0358	Never, never...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0779par0359	Please continue, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0781par0360	Yes, I'm a human being. If my friend next to me says that every sentence I say never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, please, I will react to it.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0779par0361	Answer me, give me what you want. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0781par0363	Yeah, I'll give you what I want, and the answer is, we're on the side of the law. We never take orders from anyone, never, never, never! That's it. What the hell!
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0779par0365	Thank you. 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Final Account for Central Administration 2017 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account PHOTO PROJECT OF CONNECTION REPLICTION [[Continue]] 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkish Institute of Standards 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Institute of Standards 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 ÜRKEY CENTRAL AND TECHNOLOGIC RESEARCH [[Continue]] 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account [[Continue]] 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 2) The Ministry of the European Union for Central Management in 2017 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account Now, let's move on to the question-answer process. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the question-answer procedure will take 20 minutes. The first ten minutes will be for questions, the next ten minutes for answers. The ministers will decide between themselves how long they'll take for answers. Now, let's start with the questions. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0783par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) (Keşan Food Organised Industry Region is all set. Even though it is said, why is the foundation still not laid? 2) How much do you invest in domestic seed rehabilitation in projects within the TUBITAK? Were you able to clear the men from TÜBITAK? 3) What are the returns to the loans you give to companies as part of the COBI Financial Support Loan Programme? 4) How many have applied for Bedelli military practice and how much income have been made? 5) How do you assess the press release of the operation to the east of Fırat? 6) Mr. Foreign Minister, if he wins the democratic elections, we can consider working with Syrian President Bashar Assad. You said. This statement calls for prayer at Emevi Mosque...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0784par0427	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0785par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, yes, it's been quite a tense session. First of all, we reject Mr. Minister's position and statements regarding our Deputy Minister, Free Special, and as a whole group, Mr. Secretary, the existence of Ataturk's party is the only guarantee of this country. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Actually, I wasn't going to ask any questions in this tense environment, but I noticed one important thing about Mr. Secretary of State's presentation, and that's what my question was about. I was going to ask for your assessment of the cuts of IPA funds, but you said, "It's not a problem for our country to be cut off from IPA funds." It's a question of the reputation of the European Union...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0786par0433	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0787par0434	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to Mr. Secretary of State. In recent years, Turkey has been subjected to serious terrorism and economic attacks, particularly the July 15th treacherous coup. However, with your multi-directional entrepreneur and humanitarian foreign policy, Turkey has become an influential and influential country in the world and in our region. Turkey has taken an active role in expressing humanitarian aid and human rights violations, effectively taking possession of Palestinians, Arab Muslims, Yemen, and the oppressed around the world. How are these proud activities of Turkey, the first in humanitarian aid, afforded by other countries? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0788par0438	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0789par0439	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Secretary of State. The Map General Command, formerly known as your ministry, is the Map General Directorate's National Mapping Agency, a strategic institution that has been producing maps for development, defence, security and intelligence for two centuries. In particular, the Map General Directorate, which provides maps that are needed for domestic security and cross-border operations, has been tasked with carefully calculating the coordinates of the drones' images and destroying the terrorist organization. We know that the new Map General Directorate has two separate domestic and national mapping applications to present public use. Can you tell me how far these applications are?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0788par0441	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0790par0442	Mr. Foreign Minister, thanks to the entrepreneur and humanitarian foreign policy that has brought the principle of peace, peace, and peace in the country, based on our national values, followed by our government or ministry in recent years, our country and Antalya are living the golden year in tourism and agriculture. Our tourism capital Antalya has broken the record of all time with tourists over 13 million this year. You've shown the impact and contribution of successful foreign policy on the economy. In the coming years, will this expansion continue, especially in China, in other countries, Asia, Africa or South America? I wish our budget of 2019 to be a blessing. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0791par0445	Mr. Tanal... no. Mr. Aydoğan.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0792par0447	Thank you, Mr. President. The European Court has recommended that financial assistance to Turkey be linked to more manageable conditions. In November of this year, he expressed concern as to where the money was spent at the cost of 1.1 billion euros paid for immigrants to Turkey. Where is this money being spent? Why isn't the European Union giving these coins satisfied? Turkey has been accused by Russia and by the Syrian government of failing to carry out its duties in Idlib. How do you judge these charges? What work are you conducting to address these charges? What's the latest on Idlib? I'd also like to point out that I find the three ministers' attitudes towards Parliament inappropriate. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0793par0452	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0794par0453	Thank you, Mr. President. I handed it over to Mrs. Suzan, but let me ask her. I'm asking our National Secretary of Defense if there are staffs and 3600 indicators for our special sergeants. Will the temporary duty of our special sergeants to the east be considered a service of singing? Will the rights and identities be returned to our expert sergeants who have been retired as officers by Law 6000? Our petty officers were promised severance and severance, and when will that be fulfilled? Our retired petty officers already receive 49 per cent of the salary they receive when they're eligible as pensions. Will that rate be increased? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0795par0457	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0796par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, how do you assess the press release of the operation to the east of Fırat, for the safety of the operation? Syrian territorial integrity is being stressed, but there is no contact with the Syrian government. When do you plan to meet with the Syrian government about this? Mr. Secretary of State, why was 15 people who flew to Istanbul on 2 separate flights on 2 October and killed Cemal Spoonskı in the consulate building and left our country on the same day without immunity? Why was the consul general allowed to leave on October 16th?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0797par0461	Mr. Aydemir... no. Mr. Ozer... no. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0798par0464	I'm asking the Minister of Industry and Technology: 1) Do you have a plan to develop agricultural-based industry, to make strategic agricultural products subsidized? If so, what kind of work do you have? 2) Do you have a list of products that you have prepared for the production of products that are high in addition value? What kind of work do you do on the production and export of these products? 3) Turkey's development with an economic model focused on investment and production is fundamental. Industrialization is at the beginning of this. What measures do you intend to take regarding the investment of both domestic capital and foreign direct capital? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0799par0469	Mr. Self-Subject...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0800par0470	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State and the Secretary of State, first and foremost, I want to thank you for their success and upright stance in the fight against terrorism. Operation Olive Dalli and Afrin is one of the most important public services our government has given to the people of the region by cleaning up the terrorists there. Our region is looking forward to the operation to the east of Fırat. When will we enter the east of Fırat? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0801par0474	Mr. Chepni... no. Mr. Orhan... no. Mr. Enginyurt, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0802par0478	Mr. President, after the attempted coup attempt on July 15th, the Turkish army was disbanded, destroyed, torn apart. (The birds shed blood, the flag fades.) Asia Minor begins to become a homeland. Hey, Redelma, Redelma! He's dead in his best anthem. By Allah, Allah, Allahu Akbar! God bless those who bury 5,000 PKK members in the pit in Afrin. (MHP and AK PARTY) Afrin, who entered the General Staff of Hulusi Akar (HURP and AK PARTİ), said that, hopefully, after this time during the National Ministry of Defence, Menbic, Telafer, Telafer, Tel Abyad, Sincar should be a Turkish homeland, with my best regards to the Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0803par0486	Your Honor, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0804par0487	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to the Secretary of National Defense is: What about the condition of the pedestrians that have been declared temporary security zones and closed to animalism? How right is it to be forbidden for arbitrary, simple reasons? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0805par0490	Now it's up to the ministers. Have you determined which order to speak in, Mr. Ministers?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0806par0492	We haven't detected it, so I'll start.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0805par0493	Then let's start with you, Mr. Varank.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0807par0494	Mr. President, we haven't been able to answer our questions.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0806par0495	In this budget, there is no science, technology, industry, RD and entrepreneurialism. To say that a question like this has come -- I think it's necessary not to have the slightest understanding of these concepts in order to form such a sentence. Really, I've been amazed by these criticisms. The factory doesn't open. It's been said. I'd like to give short examples of major investments that have recently been opened or activated. SOCAR has begun production. Bakr Mine began producing meat in Mazıdağı. We opened a world-class turbo compressor factory of the Wavebreaker company in Gebze. The Aksaray Mercedes trucking plant is taking on side industrial factories to increase its capacity. Companies such as Renault Mais, Sutaş, TAI, Bosch, Alvimedica, BMC, SASA, Pirelli, which will invest 500 million liras. In the first 11 months of 2018, we issued $5,559 in investment incentives worth 143 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0808par0497	Mr. Secretary, they're asking if you've got the question wrong, has the public opened it?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0806par0498	So to ignore them, either you have to be really mean or you don't know what's going on. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] There's been a question about domesticization. Call and make investment goods in our country is our main goal. We've studied over 4,000 products, prioritized these products, considering current deficit effects, trends in world trade, technology levels and domestic production capabilities. We're going to produce primary products locally with a program we call domesticization from R&D to mass production, where the manufacturer and buyer are supported together.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0809par0501	What line of patents are you in?
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0806par0502	Yet it was said that 50 percent of the people in the OSB are empty, and that number is not true. As of today, industrial parcels in 311 OSB are at 74 per cent, along with construction. According to 2002, the OSBs increased by 5 times, reaching 52,717 parcels. Look, in just 2018, 2,179 parcels were produced, 3,430 parcels of construction and 4,548 parcels of project work began. Nearly 109 000 new jobs were available in the production business. In the Southeast Anatolian region...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0810par0504	Cut it down if you want, because there won't be time for the other ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0806par0505	Well, I'll answer the rest in writing.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0810par0506	Here you go, Mr. Sergeant.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0811par0507	Thank you, Mr. President. Lütfü Türkkan has just said that relations with Israel are bad, but trade has increased. I'd like to remind you that trade is between private companies, and it is against the rules of the International Trade Organization to prevent the trade of our private companies, and that because relations with a country are bad, don't make business with our businessmen. It's not the right approach to punish them. On the other hand, you said the number about the returning Syrians. You said there were differences. When the regime attacked East Guta, Homs, Hama, and even the Idlib Town, when the regime attacked Idlib, Syrian immigrants came to Turkey from these areas, but the number of Syrians returning to Syria, the Afrin region I just told you about, and Operation Fırat Shield, and the operation was correct. Even the people who were displaced from Syria began to return to that area, except for those of us who left. On the other hand, the HDP has been asked, specifically, whether we support ISIS. No other country, other than Turkey, has ever killed 4,000 ISIS people, and no one has fought ISIS. Just as we buried the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Afrin -- as in Turkey -- we also destroyed more than 4,000 ISIS people in the Firat Shield region and Iraq. No one has fought as hard as Turkey. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] I didn't say we could work with Esad. After a democratic, fair and popular election under the supervision of the United Nations, I said, "To whomever the public chooses, relations with them will be judged."
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0812par0513	Not Esad, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0811par0515	My speech is very clear, very clear, and you can also look at it in English. The IPA funds don't hurt our economy, but it doesn't suit the European Union to make small cuts to punish us like this. On the other hand, I've already told Turkey about the reputation of humanitarian aid and policies we follow, and we've earned the appreciation of the whole world, but we're not doing it for appreciation; we're doing it because we're the hope of the poor, because we're the hope of the victims, because we're the hope of the underdogs. Your actions in foreign policy -- economic relations are important, but -- as Turkey's reputation grows, our economy will grow, our trade will increase, tourists coming to Turkey will also increase. The Court of the European Union oversees its internal work, Turkey has no right to oversee its own. He will ask, of course, where were these numbers spent? There's already transparency between the European Union and our institutions here, and we're already sharing that information with the European Union, and the Court of the European Union has no right to supervise us in any way, let me inform you. There's no problem with Idlib. Russia doesn't have a complaint, and here we are, along with Russia, implementing the Idlib Covenant -- our National Minister of Defence -- and here we are doing our intelligence successfully. And by the end of the year, hopefully, we'll open up the roads, and we'll be fine. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0813par0523	Here you are, Mr. Akar.
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0814par0524	Mr. President, Congressmans, I once again salute the House. I mentioned it during this presentation, but I'm guessing he slipped out, applied for a 635,582. According to the numbers that came to us from their application, a total of $9 billion,533 million Turkish liras were made. Other than that, foreign currency is valid for those of you who know, our youth abroad, our citizens. By building them a website in any way, they were able to complete the procedures without their power. Hence, such relief has been achieved. Furthermore, our work on the new military law, which is also called the type of military service, continues in detail, co-ordinated with relevant ministries. Hopefully, for next year, this will be announced without delay, and we've discussed it in detail, we've discussed it with all the ministries, we've talked, we've talked, we've talked. Specialists, of course, are our own sons. All work on the rights of our Petty Officers, our officers, especially in their rights, not one day, five days, periodically, but constantly, our concerned friends in the Ministry, day and night, our military-civil friends in the Joint Chiefs of Staff are continuing to develop their rights with relevant authorities, particularly the Ministry of Finance. There was a matter of setting up places for our attendings, who were important, or, of symbolic value -- which we refer to as a mobile-motivation facility -- which we call an army home. In particular, our young people who had come to the course in Ankara, İstanbul, İzmir, were having some difficulties, so we started in Ankara, provided a place for them, opened it as an example; and then, at the first opportunity, we'll start in Istanbul, which is two euros and Asia -- and we'll expand it to one in İzmir, and we'll distribute it to other locations. Again, it wasn't asked at this time, but there was a question this morning, and my friends gave it to me. It's a question of malnourished veterans with limb loss. The number of Turkish Armed Forces and Interior Ministry personnel injured in the absence of disability related to this is 19.987, according to our figures. It's not a matter of missing 40 percent, it's a matter of whether he can do his military duty or not. Those who can't do military duty are entitled to it. The study continues between the Ministry of National Defence, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, the Ministry of Finance. We, the Ministry of National Defense, are contributing to our best efforts to resolve this matter as soon as possible. On the other hand, it's an important matter, sir, there's a study of our Map General Command, about this study... It's done. About the orb...
tbmm-2018-12-17sit08spe0815par0532	[[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now, valued lawmakers, I will hand over the budgets of public administrations in the 7th round, respectively, to your votes, and to their budgets and final accounts separately. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Industry and Technology will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 26) SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY LOOK 1) Ministry of Industry and Technology 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 7.784.793,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Ministry of Industry and Technology was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, in 2017, will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 26) INTERVIEW, SANAYI AND TEKNOLOGY 1) Science, Industry and Technology Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 5.911,746,137,30 Budget Expenses 5,848.485.805.91 Canceled Grant 73,260,331,39 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 66,549,956,13 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Administration account of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology was approved in 2017. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the GAP Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.34) GAP CONTROL 1) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 88.19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 88.19,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the GAP Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the GAP Regional Development Administration's Central Management Account of 2017 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) GAP Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terminate Account Total allowance 138.829.756.00 Budget Expenses 131.391.714.33 Canceled Fund 7.438.041.67 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimated 138.575,000.00 Collection 126,642.890,31 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the GAP Regional Development Administration's fixed account of central management in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the East Anatolian Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be adopted into the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget TOPLAM 89,950.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 89,950.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the head of the Eastern Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2017: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Anatolia Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 187,985,000.00 Budget Expenses 169.988.396.02 Canceled Fund 17.996,603,98 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 162.547,000.00 Collection 158,721,115,95 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Administration account of the East Anadolu Project Regional Development Administration's presidency were adopted in 2017. I would like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 40.55) CONTROL PROJECT CONTROL CENTER 1) The Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 117.343,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: TOPLAM 117.343,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Coin Plain Project was adopted as the central management budget of the Regional Development Administration's presidency in 2019. I'd like to submit to your votes that the Office of the District Development Administration of the Consolidated Plain Project will be transferred to the chapters of the Central Management Account in 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Conium Plain Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Terms Total Payment 204.539.100.00 Budget Expenses 198,008,327,02 Canceled allowance 6.530.772.98 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 184.748,000.00 Collection 197.162.136.88 Refuge and Returns 1,995,14 Net Collection 197,160,141,74 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Office of the District Development Administration of the Iconian Plain Project have been adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration's presidency will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 1) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 85,893,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 85,893,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman's Central Management Account of 2017 will be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) East Black Sea Project Regional Development Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 133,411,249,73 Budget Expenses 131,378,709,21 Canceled Fund 2,032,540,52 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 131,700,000.00 Collection 132.887.525.47 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. The East Black Sea Project was adopted as part of the central management account of the Regional Development Administration's presidency in 2017. I submit to your votes that the president of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.30) THE PRESIDENT OF LITTLE AND DEAD EMPLOYMENTS TO PRODUCTION AND CONTROL 1) The Central Management Budget for the Development and Support Administration of Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration 2019 General TOPLAM 2.248.591.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 2,248.591.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration of 2017 shall be transferred to the chapters of the final account of central management: those who accept... those who do not accept... those who don't. 2) Small and Medium Business Development and Support Administration Chairman 2017 Central Management Final Account Total grant 2,093,694,765,25 Budget Expenses 2,006,041,615,15 Canceled allowance 87,653,150,10 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimated 1.325.409.000.00 Collection 1,837.062.765.67 Ret and Returns 591,175,89 Net Collection 1,836,471,589,78 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the President of the Development and Support Administration for Small and Medium Enterprises were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Institute of Standards of Turkey be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.22) Turkish STANDARDS INSTITUTE 1) Turkish Standards Institute 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 446.984,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 453,533.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Standards Institute was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Standards Institute's central management final account in 2017 will be transferred to its chapters: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Standard Institute for Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 420.158,000.00 Budget Expenses 347,727,417,54 Canceled Fund 72,430,582,46 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 328.326,000.00 Collection 401,118,909,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Institute of Standards' final account of central management in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Patent and Brand Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.24) TÜRK PATENT AND MARKA BUILDING 1) Turkey's Patent and Brand Agency's Central Management Budget for 2019 General TOPLAM 94.605,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 214,969000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Patent and Brand Association was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Patent and Marka Foundation shall be transferred into the chapters of 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Patent and Marka Foundation Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 86.381.100.00 Budget Expenses 80.023.892.04 Cancelled Fund 6,357,207,96 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 163,943,000,00 Collection 210.402.900.90 Ret and Returns 676.921.10 Collection 209,725,979,80 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Patent and Marka Agency's final account of central management in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.08) THE UNIVERSE OF TURKEY CLEARS AND TEKNOLOGIC RESEARCH 1) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Institution 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 3.074.236,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 3,072,986,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Foundation will be transferred into the chapters of 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 4.401.180.609.38 Budget Expenses 3.475.905.747.91 Cancelled Fund 925,274,861,47 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 98,982.377.79 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 3.197.036,000.00 Collection 3.910.963.995,46 Ret and returns 2,442.273,19 Net Collection 3.908.521.722,27 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of Turkey's Scientific and Technological Research Agency's final account of central management in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Academy of Sciences will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.09) THE ACTION OF TURKEY 1) Turkish Academy of Sciences 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 16,900,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 16,900,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Academy of Sciences was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Turkish Academy of Sciences in 2017 will be transferred to sections of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Academy of Sciences 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 16.326.368.97 Budget Expenses 14.538.423.59 Canceled Fund 1,787,945,38 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 15,986,000.00 Collection 14.953.591.09 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Academy of Sciences' final account of central management in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Defense will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) National Ministry of Defence 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 46,462.303,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Ministry of Defense budget of central management was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the National Ministry of Defense's final account of central administration in 2017 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) National Ministry of Defence 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 41,404,851,118,24 Budget Expenses 30,270,494,962.54 Cancelled Fund 10.902.141,810,77 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 11.104,646,732,47 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the National Ministry of Defence's Central Government's final account of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the State Department be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) State Department Central Management Budget 2019 General TOPLAM 4,635,760.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The State Department's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the State Department's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its specific sectors: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Department's Central Management Account for 2017 Total allowance is 3,248,849,735,40 Budget Expenses 3,186,406,704,58 Cancelled Fund 36,554,066,86 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 25,888,963,96 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the State Department's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the European Union's presidency be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 11.75) THE PRESIDENT OF THE EUROPEAN UNION 1) The Central Management Budget for the President of the European Union 2019 General TOPLAM 560.728,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the European Union's presidency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the European Ministry of the Union's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Ministry of the European Union's Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 604.820,000.00 Budget Expenses 600,404,305,66 Canceled Fund 4.415.694.34 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The European Ministry of the Union's final account of central management in 2017 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Accreditation Agency be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.21) TÜRK AKRIDITASYON BUILDING 1) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 23.185,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 44,851.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Accreditation Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Turkish Accreditation Foundation in 2017 will be transferred to parts of its final account: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) Turkish Accreditation Institution 2017 Central Management Terminate Account Total allowance 28.939.000.00 Budget Expenses 25,729.197,13 Canceled Fund 3.209.802.87 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 36,351.00 Collection 41.305.560.59 Ret and returns 2,605,44 Net Collection 41.302.95,15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Turkish Accreditation Agency's fixed account of central management in 2017 were adopted. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the seventh round were thus approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the seventh round of talks is complete. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Tuesday (December 18th 2018) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
