tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 13th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to İstanbul MP Zafer Kışkaya, who wants to address the 57th anniversary of the Turkish-German Workforce Agreement. Here you go, Mr. Seçekaya. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, signed with Germany on October 30, 1961, were written documents that changed the lives of many of our people, making thousands of people of Anatolia feel their motherland in their hearts. Although it was not foreseeable at the time, these agreements were the first step in transforming both for European countries' communities and for the Turkish community. This was the beginning of the 50 - hour journey from vinegarci to Munich, and the story of the workers who looked at their wives and their children through the misty windows of the wagons. The stories of the migration, which began with a 50 - hour journey, are now over 57. In this immigration story, they all had their minds set on going back to the motherland one day, but it didn't. Because many miles from home, these people who longed for their families and loved ones were victims of the wrong and foreign politics of Turkey at the time. Especially before the AK PARTI rule, we should not be divided with Western countries. With concern, all the problems of the Turks abroad have been ignored and all governments have remained passive until the EC PARTI period. The fact that all transactions in the process of sending out labour force abroad are Turkey's foreign ministry instead of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Employment and Labor Foundation, is also an indication of which window the governments are looking at in terms of Turks abroad. Our people, who have been left alone with their problems in foreign countries for half a century, have been looked down on in the sense of economic sake at first, then security and temporaryity, and continue to look down on them in a manner of describing them as an aggressor, or a groucher. This usual attitude ended with the importance and personal interest of our President to the Turks abroad. In the period of the AK PARTI governments -- with its multilateral foreign policy -- there has now been a process in which the expression "Turkish Outlying Turks" began to be used for both the values of the country they were born in this country and for Turkish cultures that grew up in two major languages, even for the fourth generation of Turks, and institutional policies have been introduced. It is well understood that the Turks who go to this geography are now the main elements of European countries. Busenaleyh, our citizens in these countries should be encouraged to learn the native languages of their country well, to participate in their political life, to continue their economic development, but not to neglect their identity, their culture. Consultation reforms, regulations on foreign foreign foreign exchange and military service, the recognition of divorce decisions without the need to be filed, the reduction of passport fees, the use of Blue Card owners as an interpreter in courts, and the use of blue card as an identity document in banking transactions, the ability of young people living in diaspora to study at state universities and many other issues that we have not yet mentioned in the AK PARTC. One of the most important things we must follow in the coming process is the recent increased attacks on the Turkish diaspora and its organisations by German authorities to take the necessary measures, to clarify the crimes, and to punish the perpetrators. Also, we must be sensitive and careful of the negative Turkey perception created by terrorist organisations such as the PKK and the PKK. It is observed that our European citizens have been subjected to discrimination in the social area, particularly in schools, vocational education, employment, house searching. As discussed in the case of Mesut Özil, it is also damaging the culture of racism and discrimination that our citizens in Germany face in media, institutional and social areas. German authorities are expected to take high-level measures to combat racism and discrimination. In this sense, the situation of our citizens who have been exposed to human rights violations must be monitored and treated as a matter beyond parties. The case process and the final decision in which we have been waiting five years for the original criminals to be punished by the murders of 8 Turks by the ultra-right terrorist group NSU (NSU) is also a concrete indicator of the extent of institutional racism in Germany. Punishment has been not only redemption since history, but also a method of preventing crime. From the beginning of the NSU trial process, it is imperative that public institutions and members be kept out of the scope of investigation and prosecution...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0003par0018	Finish it, I'm not giving you an extension.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0002par0019	...is also an indication that the German government has not taken responsibility for racial killings and has been reluctant and inadequate to face institutional racism. Today, I tried to put together a story of fifty-seven years in a few sentences. Stressing the importance of the establishment of an international Turkish commission in the coming process, I wish you success in the General Assembly's work. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you. The second off-the-book statement belongs to Kütahya MP Ali Fazil Kırbaş, who wants to talk about Kütahya's health infrastructure and environmental problems. Here you go, Mr. Butcher.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0005par0028	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the health infrastructure and environmental problems of the province of Kütahya. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the problems in the health department of Kütahya (Kütahya) are growing like avalanches in all provinces. Particularly because of the lack of physicians and the lack of hospital bed capacity, my Kütahian citizens have to go to neighbouring provinces. This is not an acceptable situation. In many districts of Kütahya, there is a lack of attending physicians, so patients have to go all the way to Eskişehir, Uğurış, Bursa, Balıkesir, Afyon. There are 1 obstetrician and 1 breast disease specialist in a province where 600,000 people live, and there are also deficiencies in other majors. For months there was only one obstetrician in Kütahya. We've seen people live without doctors in the age-jumping Turkey. The construction of the Kütahya city hospital has now stopped, turning it into a snake story. For more than ten years, there has been an attempt to build a hospital for Kütahya (Kütahya), but the hospital has not been started, which is now in its core stage. The University of Health Sciences was founded in Kütahya, and there is no medical school hospital. We sentenced all the patients to 182. Those lines are on the phone right now. You've been waiting on the phone for months, 15 or 20 days. Hospital line's over, you're waiting for a line at home, which goes all over Turkey. I've had friends bring it up on different occasions before. At a time called "crisis." Hospitals are now unable to operate. There are at least 20 or 30 patients I know who have reached me, who have been waiting for surgery at home for four months, because the prices in the Health Applied Service are not appropriate. The Minister of Health must inform the House on this matter. We asked him for an appointment, and I guess my friends from the AK PARTY didn't get to him about the appointment either. We haven't been able to reach Mr. Health Minister for a month and a half, although there have been serious bleeding injuries, and they have not accepted our request for an appointment. Other than that, Kütahya (Kütahya) has different health problems, the environment is being massacred. It is said that nothing can be done until 2019. The cancer rate in the region has risen dramatically. Thousands of fish and crayfish died in Sofia, in the Badger Dam, because the treatment facilities weren't properly operational or not working. This place, which is a serious source of water for Eskişehir, is spreading poison, and now 75 percent of the people in the region are living off fishing, fish and crayfish are now zero, and there are no fish left. For years, 50-55,000 cubic metres of trees have been cut down every year at the Domanic Forest Company, while this year has risen to 100,000 cubic metres. Again, Domanic National Park is in extreme danger of water and environmental danger due to the removal of copper mines in Domanic National Park. The last one, along with the poison in the bag of health proposals that's coming up right now... there's a toxin in there. It's a bill that will put thousands of health workers out of work. What's perceived in that proposal is that, I'll tell you, your fellow physicians have a stethoscope in one hand, and sometimes there's an injector, and then there's a blood pressure device. I don't understand how to hit with these three devices, attempt a coup. I'd appreciate it if the friends who brought it could explain. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0006par0035	The third unscheduled statement belongs to Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı, who asked for a comment on Bitlis' problems. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0007par0039	Mr. President, the issues of Bitlis County are like Mount Suphan, there's no telling in five minutes. I just made a promise to expose the AKP mentality in Bitlis. I'll tell you how the AK PARTY policy was put into practice in Bitlis County. The AKP, which began campaign propaganda with service delusions before the June 24th elections, halted the construction of roads in the central villages of the Four Trees (Kamah), Değirmenuntü (Por) and Woodbridge (Hormoz) just after the election. The same logic was announced to the public that the construction of roads in the village of Reshadiye (Sorp) of Tatvan County (Sorp) was abandoned and that the water drilling operation had been drilled after -- after the election, the projects had been cancelled. The tenders for the irrigation projects of Mutki district's Bossönu (Pasing), Yenidoğan (Kursuwak) and Şen villages were made before the election and after-election projects were cancelled. A new asphalt study will be announced to the villagers, which was carved in the road before the election, on the road to the "Tapavank" (Beauty). The vote was not voted after the election. It was abandoned, as was the case. In this picture, you can see clearly how they dug the road. However, this village is a village where thousands of tons of potatoes are produced and dozens of trailers use their way. The people of Bitlis await explanation of the reasons for the decision taken by AKP MPs along with the Governor of Bitlis. The people of Bitlis ask: "Why is it not equal and just in the ministry when we are being put in the same prison? " Don't think that these roads are long-range or watering projects are also big projects. These are villages with a mile and a half to the main road, and villages that are considered Bitlis. The irrigation project is a simple 3-4km plastic pipe-laying business instead of the current land arc. Last term in the Plan and Budget Commission, former Finance Minister Naci Agbal said that Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) is preventing projects from being carried out. I asked him, "What mega project did you do to him, and the HDP was killed?" I asked him, and he was very angry. No vote, no service. Is it logical to seek revenge on the people? I'm also going to refer to it as pollution: the Tatvan sewer, ground to ground, is being directly discharged to Lake Van. In the village of Jamalatttin, the people are forced to clean the drinking tank at least twice a year due to the problem of miles and mud. The sewer problem of the pond (Arin) village is still unresolved. I'll tell you what they all have in common: revenge for not voting for the AKP. And the second thing is, if these villages were the production area, if they were the Rant Center, I'm sure you would have produced -- as you imagine -- four trips to the moon, four road projects. In other words, the AKP members had two deputies for the last term, and why were they not served? These gentlemen don't realize they've been in power for 16 years. Well, if it's the 2nd legislature, go ahead and do it. In 16 years of power, you have three, two, one, and finally you have two deputies again, and everyone knows exactly how you got it out.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0008par0045	How did we get it out?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0007par0046	I can tell you that with the cost of the palace for a day, I can complete many of these projects. The applications are not rational, they're irrational, they're counterintuitive. You can't fix this society with these simple, cheap, mangy policies, you can't fight the economic crisis. And finally, I'd like to remind you that everyone aims to be on top, but no one knows that the end of the summit is the beginning of the descent. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0009par0052	Dear friends, I have something very small to say. I'd like to point out here that all our friends in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey have been chosen according to the existing legislation in Turkey and by the decision declared by the High Election Board.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0010par0053	He's entitled to criticism, election procedures and criticism of how he is.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0009par0054	Congressmans, I will now promise the first 15 MPs to enter the system with a minute's notice. After these words, I will meet the demands of the members of the group's vice presidents. Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0011par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 90th anniversary of the adoption of Turkish Letters 1353, which freed our language from the Arabic alphabet and restored it to the new Turkish alphabet, and of the adoption of the Law on Acceptance and Exercise. Ataturk's determination, patience, and hard work have been effective in the fulfillment of this Letter Revolution, and early acceptance by the public. The Letter Revolution is not a formal, simple or technical change, nor should it be considered a rejection or denial of the old, or what exists, as a denial of the writing scientific text, but rather as an attempt to create a new language and reach the level of modern civilization, science and enlightenment. Therefore, the Letter Revolution is a pioneer of enlightenment. So once again, I give thanks to the great leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0009par0060	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0012par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. The multi-directional reflections of economic problems in our country are increasing. Economic problems added to social education problems are causing serious damage to the family union. In addition to suicides who burn themselves for unemployment, violence is raging against women. In response to a written request by Interior Minister Sulejman Nobleman, the extent of violence to the woman has been revealed. In 2017, in the first seven months of 2017, 96,417 women were subjected to violence, while 393 women were unfortunately killed by violence. This is not an acceptable situation. Despite the presence of violent prevention and monitoring centres, the problem continues. Family unity is falling apart, and one of the most important issues of social problems continues today as violence to women. I think it's imperative that all parties be sensitive about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0013par0065	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0014par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. Last year, the 1st edition of the International Carthage Summit, the new address of the intellectual world, organised by the Kopeli Metropolitan Municipality. The main theme of the summit was July 15th and the coup. The summit final declaration has been put on the agenda of the United Nations. On October 26th and 28th of October 2nd of the Cartepe Summit, "Emigration was made with the theme of Refugeery and Humanity. 360 people from 30 countries participated in science, media and politics, and 70 separate sessions were held in six halls. Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlüt Sargeglu has assumed the summit's honorary presidency. Mohamed Saadie, co-chairman of the Central East and Western Asian Regional Organization, said the decisions made in Turkey about refugees saved the lives of millions of Syrians and that the summit was an important step towards the situation of refugees around the world. Again, we were unable to help the former Greek minister, the refugees. Saying that I love immigrants does not mean that I love the dead immigrant.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0015par0071	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0016par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mersin, Turkey meets about half of the age-age fruit export and is ranked first in Turkey's export of aged vegetables. The government has given the black Sea nut manufacturer the necessary support, and the nut maker is relieved, at least a little bit. However, all farmers in Çukurova are victims. Narcissian season has begun, incentives are inadequate, prices are very low. The season of olives and olive oil has begun and is sold for half the price of last year. I'm calling the Minister of Agriculture here: For farmers who produce 70 per cent of the narcissist produced by Turkey, produce about half of the strawberries, olives, apricots and flour, electricity prices related to agricultural irrigation must be reduced to at least half, VAT must be removed and prices cut in half, and the farmer who has been promised for many years should be given cheap diesel. It's time to sow, the farmer will plant his field, and unfortunately he can't.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0015par0076	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0017par0078	Thank you, Mr. President. Last week, the Minister of National Education announced his vision of 2023 in training. He has disappointed our teachers and students as a project of expressive wishes more than concrete solution proposals. As long as this warped system separates the teacher into three groups, with a contract, with a fee, it is not possible to achieve success in education. In the name of the 5,000 staff assigned for the transfer of paid teachers to the contract, it has victimized our teachers to keep the important part free with interview freaks who have no reality. The obstacles to the family union of our contract teachers continue with pressure, which must be resolved immediately. This chaos of education must end quickly, modern norms must be brought to life. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0018par0081	Mr. Stonemaker...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0019par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. At yesterday's meeting of the Plan and Budget Commission, Vice President Fuat Oktay did not answer questions about the flying palace from Qatar. For the plane, Mr. Oktay said that although the two of them were different things, both gift and grant, there was no certificate of gift or grant. In addition, Mr. Oktay has stated that the plane's record of the presidential inventory has not yet been made. There's a plane, there's a hangar, there's a cabin crew, why isn't there an inventory recording, what's expected? Why is there no evidence that this plane is a gift or a grant?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0018par0085	Mr. Yasar...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0020par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. I've just attended the opening session of a summit called the Zero Waste Summit in our Presidential Chamber. Clearly, zero waste is aimed at preventing waste, more efficient use of resources, and reducing the amount of waste from the use of it, establishing the efficient collection system, implementing the waste prevention approach, which includes recycling of waste. Many of our 100-laden organizations have been awarded awards in this context, including our Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality, TRT Foundation, and many other institutions, including TEMA. Frankly, I welcome this kind of summit in Turkey, and I'd like to bring it to the attention of the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0021par0090	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0022par0092	Mr. President, members of parliament, there are dozens of historical markets in Bursa. There are hundreds of historical markets in our country with seven or eight centuries of history, including the Ottoman and Seljukian heritage in closed markets, markets, markets, resorts, and indoors, inn, caravansaray. Historical markets, historical, trade, tourism, and market property have become the landmarks and displays of cities. For this reason, the law on management of historic markets must be passed so that they do not have a place of Rant and moisturisation. Laws and regulations on the regulation of retail trade number 6585, which was released in 2015, were insufficient and new regulation is essential. The introduction of historical markets with high potential for tourism is inadequate. Studies must be increased to enter UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0023par0096	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0024par0098	Thank you, Mr. President. The formation of local watering units has been modified by the AKP and trustees have been appointed by the DSI; this has completely eliminated a democratic structure. The first jobs of the heads of watering units appointed from the DSI were to execute farmers who owed money for agricultural irrigation. I'd like to ask the Minister of Agriculture about this: will the debt of the farmers who are being paid for this irrigation money be structured, the interest lifted, and the main payment put into a configuration? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0025par0101	Mr. Girgin... no. Mr. Sword... Thank you, Mr. President. Last Sunday in our town of Kahramanmarash Pazarcık, in the year of Elif Ana's march to the land of Hakk, we became the host of all lives to Elif Anayya. The people of the state were united together, and the talks were made, and the food was eaten. Everyone saw once again that we could not enter our brotherhood and that we did not need foreign ideology and models. ▪ Tolerance is the size of being able to make everyone happy in their own way, not the way we want it to be, says Albert Robinson. The most beautiful thing in life is to seek the truth, far from prejudicial judgment. The finding gives clues to attention in the hand of interest. The biggest obstacle comes from prejudicial judgment. He forbids himself to think, and he gives birth to a sad deception. In the Qur'an, act with madness, and do not follow what you do not know. It has been commanded. Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0026par0110	Thank you, Mr. President. In the June 24th elections, residents of our province's Boatli neighborhood decide not to go to the polls because of their democratic responses to the election, where their homes and land are not registered, and they are remembered for the election, and they have no service. Don't be fooled by his name being Boated; they don't have boats, they don't have rafts, they don't even have water to drink. Then the town council will begin their tour of persuasion for our citizens. When my governor fails, the governor of the province comes. When we learned about the events, we went to Boatli. The governor listened to our fellow boaters in our neighborhood and promised me the government to solve their problems, and I promised him I'd follow his problems. I was at Saraz for the weekend. The problems of the boatman are just as they are in the other neighborhoods of our Saraz. The promises are forgotten. Just as the ruling AKP, who promised to start development from Saraz, forgot all about Saraz. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0027par0114	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0028par0116	Thank you, Mr. President. In Mersin, my constituency district at the weekend, the news of our nation's garden, which has been shared with our countrymen by our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, Mr Murat Kurum. In front of about 50,000 square metres of previously established land, we will build a national garden of 110 acres, which will also give us about 60 acres of land known as the Sea Park. There'll be an area in which all of our citizens, in a social sense, will be able to go and provide all kinds of needs, infrastructure, youth, child, seniority, time. With investments in many areas, I thank our ministers, our MPs, especially Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who has contributed to the development and progress of our city, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0027par0118	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0029par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. The number of exports announced today increased by 13.1 per cent to $15 billion 732 million. With this figure, the record of the Republic's history has been broken by reaching the highest level of all time. The last 12 months of exports rose to 166 billion 809 million dollars, reaching the highest level in the annual export of republican history. In October, imports declined 23.5 per cent, reducing to 16 billion 261 million dollars. The rate of exporting has risen to 96.7 per cent in October. The foreign trade deficit declined at 92.8 per cent compared to the same period of the previous year, reducing to $529m. Despite all attacks, it is clear that in October, the Turkish economy continues to set records for its growth based on production and exports, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0027par0122	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0030par0124	I'm asking the Minister of Health, one: I've asked your ministry before, but so far I've had no results. The province of Denizli still needs specialists in various majors in hospitals in Kale, Beyaç, Serinhisar, Çamaeli, Baklan, South, Babadağ districts. When are you going to appoint specialists who need our hospitals in these counties to meet these needs? What's the reason for keeping the staff empty? Our patients can't be treated properly. Number two: I'd like to convey the request of my fellow muscle patient. We're told there's a significant number of muscle patients in our country. There's no sure cure for these, but with stem cell therapy, the progression of the disease is slowed, the muscles are strengthened, they're able to walk. Therefore, they expect to open a fully equipped gene therapy center for stem cell treatment of muscle patients in our country and provide free treatment for those with muscle disease.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0027par0126	Mr. Girgin, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0031par0128	Mr. President, the village of Yethan is at an important crossing point between 50 neighborhoods and 50,000 populations of Stratonicia and Lagina, which bridge the ancient cities of tourism. Inönu Boulevard, which passes through the centre of our district and serves as a bridge between the tourist districts, is the main artery as its commercial location, and is a key way of making first impressions of our district as well as of its location in the transport network. For three years, no studies have been conducted on Inönu Boulevard, which is the main artery in the capital of the Yahten-Milas. The lack of road regulation at Inönu Boulevard, which is responsible for the roads, especially in summer and in school, leads to increased fatal accidents, and is referred to as the road to death. In this area, the Inönu Boulevard in the district must be carried out by the highways immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0032par0131	Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, we will now meet the demands of the members of the group. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0033par0134	Mr. President, it is the birthday of our 9th President, Mr. Süleyman Demirel. On 17 June 2015, I offer my condolences to the late Sulejman Demirel, who had a very respectable and important place for Turkish politics, who had lost his family and loved ones. This is the anniversary of the Letter Revolution, where new Turkish letters are accepted to express our beautiful language. Ninety years ago today, our beautiful, harmony and rich language appeared in the new Turkish letters. I'd like to point out that we consider the Letter Revolution one of the most important steps taken by the young republic, which has transformed its direction into modern civilization. The reign was lifted ninety-six years ago today. It is useful to remind again today that the Republic of Turkey does not belong to a person, a group or a family. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally. There is no power over people. Once again, we emphasize this understanding with a loud voice from the House of People. Yesterday, the Central Bank announced the expected interest at the end of the year at 23.5%. At this point, our nation expects a raise in salary as much as inflation. The government must not oppress its citizens against inflation. The President must not withhold his salary increase from a Turkish citizen. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0034par0139	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0035par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. With my best wishes on your new mission, I'd like to thank you and my most gracious and gracious deputy president, who has offered me this opportunity to speak. As you know, I have a say in the Eastern Anatolian region, which usually concerns Turkey and is my area in private, to bring up a matter that is really needed. You know, with the recent economic difficulties and the sudden rise in foreign currency, we've had a series of hikes that have bent the back of our citizens in our country. In particular, in April, August and September 2018, BOTAS increased three times to natural gas, one of the foreign import pens with a foreign currency index. The dollar was 3,96 in April, 4,93 in August and 6.51 in September. In recent days, a decision made by BOTASH was shared with the public that 8.8% of the gas used only to produce electricity was reduced to 8.8%. We've previously made a wish to make a similar WTV and VAT improvement, both in place of the research proposal and in place of the law proposal, for Erzurum-based and Eastern Anatolian region. And today, we have once again submitted this request to the House as an offer of the law. In this regard, we demand that the relevant ministry demonstrate the necessary sensitivity, because it is imperative that, in fact, as a social state, we consider the conditions of the region and make some decisions towards the development models of that region. There are examples of this in many parts of the world. Believe me, we are witnessing countries and regions in which tax exemption has been reduced to zero levels. It will comfort Turkey, not only is it energy-related, but usually, the consumption of natural gas in heating, housing, housing, and especially the industrial and small tradesman's...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0036par0148	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0035par0149	I apologize. Thank you very much. In particular, I would like for my own party to solve the problem at this warming point, which includes half the cost inputs of the industry and small tradesmen in the region, which will be really unfairly competitive. Thank you so much for giving me this opportunity, thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0037par0152	Thank you, Mr. Aydın. Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0038par0155	Thank you, Mr. President. Four years ago, ISIS attacked Kobani, a small town in Syria. During this attack, a hundred and thirty days of war took place. Many parts of the world have supported the people of Kobani's defence and resistance to Islamic barbarism. There was a corridor of humanitarian aid in Turkey, whether late or not; supports, as well as treatment of the wounded, have been offered, and this has fallen down in history as a note. On 1 November 2014, ISIS, one of the last tongs of those who wanted to turn the ancient Middle East people into swamps, first experienced defeat and setbacks. Women's resistance to ISIS, a major misogynist, was also a symbol in the history of equality, freedom, and struggle. So, today is the anniversary of that day, November 1st is the Day of Solidarity with Kobani. If ISIS had succeeded in Kobani, many of the world's centers, including Turkey, would still face the barbaric face of ISIS. On this occasion, instead of attacking Kobani, I would like to share the need to establish solidarity and friendship with the people of Kobani and respect their political preferences. Secondly, Mr. President: AKP Vice President Özhaseki has made defamations and insults about our party on a TV show he attended last. He claimed that our party was involved in corruption through municipalities and transferred money to different locations. If there's a document about this, if there's anything he can prove, we say he should share it with the public at once. Especially when our beloved, dear brother Ahmet Turk took over Mardin City, his seat when he won was impounded. And then Van City Hall...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0039par0160	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0038par0161	Burhan Yenigün, who was tried for corruption, did not even have a government vehicle. The mayor of Artuklu Municipality has a claim on this, saying that 600m euros have been spent in the district of Artuklu. Where was this money spent? My heart hurts. He says that recently. We think Özhaseki should look at his own municipalities. In particular, we think it's important to explain where, who, how many parcels of land the mayors who were resigned had to go after. Again, the mayor says our candidates aren't from there, they're not local. We care about the candidate criteria that will make public income, that will not fail in the ministry. This is also part of the AKP tradition: We want to ask whether Bashir was from Atalay Van, whether he was from Bkent Arinc Bursalı, Faruk Çelik Urbana.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0040par0165	Let's open it up, guys. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0038par0167	As a result, we would like to say that the AKP and some forces have now seen HDP's success in the election. We'd like to say to 53 of our arrested mayors that we're going to elect our new mayors at a much higher rate than the vote you've been elected. And don't let the Mayor and Figen President know that this ship will reach the port. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0041par0172	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0042par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. The date of November 1st is an important milestone in the history of the Republic of Turkey and in the view of the Ataturk revolutions, for the republic's revolutions. The removal of the reign on 1 November 1922 was the Letter Revolution on 1 November 1928. Ninety-six years ago, on November 1, 1922, the removal of the reign took place in a new era. The decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, established in Ankara on April 23, 1920, was officially called out to the entire world that the sovereignty that passed from the palace to the nation could never be transferred to a palace or a person. But 905 years after the removal of the reign, with a constitutional amendment to the regime, today's majority is a constitutional change in which the 1st party and its allies work together, and after proving that they have established national sovereignty in the State of Emergency, they have again undermined our Parliament's powers, eager to hand them over to a single man's regime. To those who feel that this is not the case, it is important to ask: Had it not been for the reign of the ruler of the country on November 1, 1922, he would have placed his son-in-law at the head of the treasure. For example, the country's justice minister's father-in-law could have been a public prosecutor who had to supervise him. And the names closest to the palace were appointed ambassadors to all over the world. If we're saying there's not a single man's regime today, we need to read this painting very carefully today. As Republican People's Party, we'll be scraping the remains of September 12th military coup to the end. On April 16th, 51 per cent, officially and unsealed, with a genuine social understanding of this illegal constitutional amendment today...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0043par0180	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0042par0181	...and our faith and effort in parliamentary democracy will continue until the day when it will be changed by a very high-profile public vote and a very high vote of acceptance. November 1, 1928 is the Letter Revolution. Today is the 90th anniversary of the Letter Revolution. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was one of the most important steps to rise to the level of civilization, to modernization, the Letter Revolution. There are no more serious circles that refuse to acknowledge that reading is directly proportional to the use of Latin - based letters from 7 per cent in men, from a period of 4 per thousand in women to today. Those who make it seem like our grandfathers couldn't read the gravestones or erase history, those who interpret them are more than just a number of trolls that support today's power on social media. From time to time, they express their intentions, their words, by insulting Ataturk (Ataturk) and the founding staff of the republic with the most severe insults.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0043par0184	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0042par0185	Once again, we give thanks to our republic's revolutionary squads, especially Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Today is also the 60th anniversary of the death of John Kemal Beyatlı. As Urbana, Tekirdağ, Yozgat and İstanbul MP, we once again remember John Kemal Beyatlı, an unforgettable poet who served this Parliament for four periods, who served as ambassador, and who served as an ambassador, and who had many memorable works, such as Rask, Rindler's Evening and Silent Ship, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0044par0189	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0045par0191	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, and I wish you the best work. Well, there's a challenge to being the last speaker. My dear colleagues throw many stones until they come to the speech you've planned, but these matters are always spoken of. So I'm also ruining my right to answer them because we keep talking about things. I just want to talk about Yahya Kemal Beyatlı. We all know it, but I want to underline it. An intellectual, a poet, a literary man, who may have witnessed the things you're talking about today with his own life, answered. During the transition from the Ottomans to the republic, he was an immigrant child, and he fought with the migration, and he later witnessed the founding of the republic. He's a name that lives in his own soul. A name that seeks answers between past culture and civilization. In fact, as he returned from Paris to his hometown of Anatolia, he described his return from school to home as a man who described his life as a return, a return to culture and consciousness as a return to its essence, and a human being who, with a part of him, was trying to dream of a conquest in defeat, trying to fulfill his dreams in a dream of conquest. And I, [O Muhammad], remember Him with mercy. I wish I could live his life, and I wish I could. I've felt it in his work many times. With that hope, I remember him with mercy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0046par0196	Let's move on to the agenda. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. We begin talks on the Constitutional Commission's Committee for Human Rights Review Membership Report and the Commission's Karma Commission Report in the year 2017, ranked 1st. Commission? Here. A meeting on the Karma Commission Report on the 2017 Public Control Agency Report will be promised to one member on behalf of the political party groups, two members on behalf of their members, according to Article 72 of the Interior Charter. In addition, the Commission will be promised on its request, with which the discussion on the Karma Commission Report will be completed. The deadlines are 20 minutes each for the commission and political party groups, ten minutes for the individuals. The commission report has been suppressed and distributed with the number of 3 rows. I'll take turns making a promise to the MPs and the group representatives who are taking the lead on the report. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, MP Lütfü Türkkan... Here you go, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0047par0211	Mr. President, before I begin my remarks, I would like to thank my friends, both the vice president of the Republican People's Party and the vice president of the Justice and Development Party, for their remembrance of the poet, political man, my Skopje fellow John Kemal Beyatlı. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are the victim of our citizen, the independence of our Parliament, the integrity of our state above politics. Our parliament's motion for the party will gradually lose its function when it surrenders to its proposal. We saw in this report today that many of the complaints, many of the victims, were discussed under the roof of this House, but were unresolved when we examined the report. When we moved the subjects of our citizen to our House, we were even accused of using these victims as political means. If we can't move our nation's problems here, if we can't cover a wound, what's the wisdom in stopping here if we can't fix our citizen's problems? Let's get up and go, dear friends. Now, I ask you, which is to use the victims to politics, to bring up a problem in order to solve it, or to ignore the content, regardless of the subject, the proposals, the motions? We're almost in the year 2019, a hundred years ago, an incident repeats itself, two of our soldiers freeze to death. In order for such events not to happen again, we said, "Come, let's investigate this matter." You said, "No, sir, no." Our nut merchant is bleeding, so we offered him a solution, and our friends offered him a solution, and if necessary, we would suggest it. You said it, but the Clave is still waiting for your offer on this matter. You've declared all opposition to power, you've shown every opposition stick, you've said twice, let's look at the political foot, we can't, we won't. We thought we'd work for millions of citizens living in retirement, bringing up pensioners, almost signing a principle in the history of Congress, giving millions of citizens a feeling that they didn't exist in two hours, leaving them in their enthusiasm. Today's report shows a little bit of what the new Turkey is coming to. Take this report, take a look at the victims of the length of their trial, the complaints that have come to the current CIMER, the complaints that have come to BIMER, our disabled citizens, our poor women, our young ones, how inadequate they have been to defend their rights, the problems of our pensioner, our tradesman, how their co-hosts have been put under foothold. As long as the ruling party and its little partner keep their pink glasses out of their eyes, our nation's problems, our government's problems, are growing like an avalanche. The only solution to our citizen's affairs is the High Council, so keep that in mind. As our President said, we're all in the same boat; yes, it's true, we're all on the same ship, but the ship has water from all sides, like the Titanic. Do you know who the pool media looks like that doesn't see it? He's like a musician who won't stop playing the instrument when the Titanic goes down; on the one hand, the ship sinks, and on the other hand, musicians who ignore the sinking ship continue to play music. Do you remember that there is such a darbageal: At that time, Hazeti Hussein, who did not swear to the Caliphate of Yazid, accused some religious scholars of sedition. Now I'm looking at everyone who objects to the country's negativity, raises their voice, is accused of sedition, of being played by external forces. You know what that means? The Yazeids are still alive. The Yazeids are still alive. One issue in this report is the length of the judicial period. I'll tell you a story: once upon a time, a poor man bought a horse. But when he took the horse to the barn, he realized the horse was sick. He wants to return it, but he wants to make it official because he's worried the merchant he bought the horse wouldn't take it back. Kadiya goes, she can't find the woman, the court stays the next day. The horse gets sick and dies that night. The next day, he told the lady what happened and asked her what she was going to do. She said, "Don't worry, I'll pay for the damage." The man is amazed, but the lady says, "What crime do you have in this matter, and why should you pay for it?" The woman then answers: "Yes, it seems that I have nothing to do with it, but the truth is that it is not. If I were you when you came in yesterday, I'd have the horse returned, and you'd have your money. The horse would have died with the owner, not in your barn. Now there's no way. I'll pay for your loss because I wasn't in my office that day. Do you know who that woman is? Molla Fenari, the first of the Ottomans to become Sheikhulism. We've come from that day. But today, there are courts today that take years. The man was called to the court as a witness, unable to recall the incident; a court awaits in prison, while a violent criminal walks free. Today, there are prisoners who have been in prison for over a year and a half for various crimes, but still haven't been sued or written in a court of law. Late justice, not justice. In the meantime, the heart of the victim who was never seen in court is not getting cold. He regrets the witness testimony, so let us not trouble ourselves. The witnesses now hide what they know. The citizen with a job at the courthouse is terrified, lawmakers. Unfortunately, in our country, justice isn't being served, it can't be found. Let's not forget, even if the decision is in accordance with the rights and the law, the right decision is not justice. There's an EYT, it's in the report. On page 23 of this report, the pension process is often complained of our institution. It is said that the demands for retirement are to be met on time. The report explained the matter with two lines. As you may recall, we've asked that our victimized citizens be thoroughly investigated because they're old enough to be retired. After the investigation, we stated that the necessary legal and administrative procedures had to be carried out, and we moved the matter to the House. We all know what happened next. We also find it difficult to understand how the MPs who do not support our proposal take over their conscience. As a result, we have seen and lived who sincerely wants to solve the age-old problem of retirement. We leave the matter to the public's discretion. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, one of the issues in this report is education. The report has the most problems and needs to be resolved is education. During 2017, the institution received 2,665 applications for education, which amounted to 15.56 per cent of the total application. Even this painting is very important for the public to find out how much trouble they have in education. It's not easy to say that a system like our children's puzzle board can carry our country into the future. Last week, National Education Minister Ziya Selçuk announced some goals under the name Vision Document 2023 in Education. He's the head of an institution that passed by his name, but the trial of our Adana MP, Ismail Konçuk Bey. The National Minister of Education has shown a non-national attitude to appeal the decision to have our oath read in the schools his apartment has provided. AS A GOOD PARTY, we feel that our children should be taught by Our Word, and we will do whatever it takes to do so. Looking at the vision targets explained by the minister, it turns out that the goals are not important. What needs to be noted is what kind of staff will carry out these goals. No matter how much you change a system that doesn't exist, you're not going to get any different results by trying the same things. Speaking of which, you should also mention the head of the ECHR. Just yesterday, he made a confession on social media, Mr. President said he would be appointed as a professor without seeking a central examination or a foreign language requirement. He probably didn't know about the vacant quotas at our universities, colleges and colleges that were on the run when he made that statement. As appointed to the University of Pamukkale of Deniz, Professor Hüseyin Bağ appointed his wife Derya Bağ to be the Secretary of the Institute of Islamic Sciences at Pamukkale University. It's a public reaction, but Mr. President insists on putting his wife in another unit later this time. Again, about 30 academics at the University of Çorum Hitit have the same last name. Look, I repeat: 30 academics serving at the University of Corrum Hitit have the same last name. You'd think it was a family college, a family college, a college, and all the members of the university. Is that what you guys know about merit? What kind of vision can you talk about under these circumstances? I'd like to talk a little bit about the health issue of the report. There were 467 applications for health care. Dear friends say, just as health care is directly related to health care, it is different from other public services, and it has an unschedulable and non-imposed quality of human health and life as the primary goal of health care. See, in one sentence it has been stated that health care is important for human life and that it cannot be postponed. I'm curious, how do you explain the appointments in months? How do you compare the position of a dean of medical school who has issued a notice on the matter of surgery to the recent public, if there is a matter of surgery? Since there is no equipment or equipment, hospital administrations will no longer order surgeries if the surgeries are not urgent. They are instructed to do so, and they are even threatened to investigate doctors who will perform surgery. Almost all of our medical schools and university hospitals have reached bankruptcy. Read the Court reports, whose income can't cover their expenses, and they can't meet their needs because of the constant difference in courtship. You said in health, you changed the name of everything, you did nothing but advertising. You've caused damage to our healthcare sector that won't be repaired for long. Another topic in this report is ▪ Environment and urbanism. ▪ The report stated that complaints concerning environmental and urbanism focused on areas 2/B, urban transformation services, management of water and water and related resources, infrastructure and advertising services. I want to talk about two things here. The first is that all structures under the name of the peace treaty are wanted to be registered. This is particularly a problem in major cities. The undiscriminate coverage of buildings that are not available, that are having doubts about earthquake resistance, even that are mandatory urban transformations, as I have just said, could leave us with an unresolved problem in the future. I think the second issue is vital to our future. We're having a hard time with agriculture and livestock. The outside-dependent policy of the EC PARTY government in every area continues, unfortunately, in this area as well. On the one hand, our farmland and mera are being looted, and on the other hand, we're going to claim that our agricultural activities will be improved by renting agricultural land in Sudan. As we distribute our own farmland, when we can't keep them, we're going from Sudan to rent farm land; it's mind-blowing. Look, this is a 2017 audit report by the Court of Justice for the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. The third finding found on page 26 of the report states: "As part of the Law on Mera 4342, it must be invaded by the use of the fields, meadows, pedestrians, and barracks for illegal construction and extravaganzas. " I'm calling to make this work: you have as much to go on as we do, you have no right to starve the Turkish nation the day after tomorrow; this is a very serious matter. Truly, Turkey may one day be in danger of starvation. The economic situation is obvious, our currency could be over, we could have problems importing tomorrow, and if we don't, how are we going to feed 81 million populations? I think it should be handled very seriously. Another issue in the report is violence against women. As Deputy Group President of a party where the president is a woman, I'd like to make a special point. Like all over the world, one of the major problems facing women in Turkey is violence against women. Regardless of the type of violence that has been inflicted, international contracts signed by Turkey have been given responsibility to the state, but there has been no reduction in the level of violence that women have been subjected to over the years. The traditional gender-based discrimination in the Turkish family structure has caused girls and women, especially women, not to participate effectively in social life, and as a result, they have suffered a lot of harm in many ways. In the face of the fact that half of Turkey's population is women, studies on the determination and resolving of these problems that women face based on their gender are extremely limited. Any violence that women face in our country is evident in the lack of an environment and a sense of trust that they can convey in full confidence. We're doing something shallow enough to send a violent woman to a women's shelter. What's she doing in a shelter? Why don't you send the violent man to the shelter?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0048par0232	He is, he's being suspended, he's getting a restraining order.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0047par0233	So it's not enough to push him away, you look behind every murder and there's a man who's been suspended from the house. I'm afraid there's no way we can put a cop after a man who's been suspended from every household. Instead of her being sent to a shelter, the violent man should be punished, while the woman is being sent to a shelter to be isolated. I think we need to end this wrong procedure as soon as possible. The numbers are very serious, and there's no proportional difference between urban areas and women who are subjected to violence; 35 per cent in one, 37 per cent in the other -- the educated and the uneducated are competing with each other in the amount of violence against women -- there's no difference.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0049par0234	If the Istanbul Convention were to be carried out, it would be enough.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0047par0235	As a result, our research shows that the Public Control Agency has sent 349 decisions to relevant institutions regarding the 14.766 application, which corresponds to only 2.3 per cent of the total complaint, and unfortunately the relevant administrations have not complied with only 65 per cent of these decisions and have not been taken seriously by 35 per cent, so the decisions sent by this institution have not been taken seriously by the relevant institutions. As a result, the complaints filed by the Public Control Agency -- look, this number is very important, Mr. Group Vice President, I want you to hear it specifically -- are 1 per cent of all complaints. Even a teacher gives a student who works on 1 percent of the subject a zero, and if he doesn't know 99 percent, he only works on 1 percent, he says, "Sit down, zero!" Congressmans, I'm curious to know that this institution has provided a 1 per cent success criteria... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0050par0239	Mr. Turkkan is in negotiations on my deadline.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0047par0240	I'm finishing, I've only got a few sentences left.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0050par0241	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0047par0242	Thank you. How much would you give this institution if it came to you with a 1 percent success criteria? I know there are teachers among you. How much would you give a student like that if he showed up? Answer with your hand on your conscience. I mean, it's not even clear how seriously the institution's decisions are taken by public administrations, what kind of sanctions will be imposed on relevant administrations and administrators if they are not followed. So we see that this report is just a series of jobs that were actually done as if they were actually doing it. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0051par0246	Thank you. İstanbul MP Memet Bkent Karataş is now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karastone.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0052par0250	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I give thanks to the great Turkish nation who are watching us on television, and I send my deepest love and conversation to my Istanbul citizens here. I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 2017 People's Association Report on Human Rights Commission and the Commission's Commission's Commission on Human Rights Review Report. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, on 26 October 2018, while in operation in the 2,300 rakimlı countryside of Nazımiye district of Tunceli Province, I am grateful and grateful for all of our martyrs, as well as for the heroic Sergeants Asim Türker, and Ferruh Dikmen. He says he's sorry for the head of the great Turkish nation, and I want to express that I share the pain of his family and relatives. At the press conference we held on 11 October 2018 and at the press conference, together with our Vice President, Mr. Izzet Ulvi Yölter. We have shared with the public our views on the issues of the expert sergeants and experts, their rights. On 11 October 2018, we submitted our proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in order to improve its terms and to make arrangements for their rights. Again, Izzet Ulvi Ölvir was making a very emotional assessment of sergeants and sergeants of the Gendarmes, making an aching assessment: "Why can't our heroes who enter the tents and enter the heavenly homes?," he said. Is it too much for you, for us, to give rights to our heroes, who have given their lives for the cause of the country, to those who have a conscience? Dear lawmakers, the Public Control Agency has been established as an independent and effective complaint mechanism for the functioning of public services, in order to study, investigate, and make recommendations in terms of the administration's actions and actions and actions based on human rights-based justice. At this point, in addition to the actions and procedures of the administration, it is the institution's function, which is different from its own. In this regard, the institution's importance is also increasing. The best of the people is the one that helps people the most. With their belief, let the government live, the Society of Public Control, which guides itself to the principle of government, tries to promote the quality of service, establish the principles of good governance, improve human rights, promote the rule of law, promote rights, create a transparent, accountable, human-focused administration. Under the decree of Article 22 of Law 6328, at the end of each calendar year, the Society of Public Control shall submit a report covering its activities and proposals to the Karma Commission, consisting of members of the Committee for Proclamation and the Commission for Human Rights Review. The Karma Commission prepares a report, summing up the institution's annual report within two months, excluding intervals and holidays, including its own opinion and opinion. Turkey will send this report to the Grand Assembly of Turkey to be presented to the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly. However, the Commission's Commission Report on the 2017 Public Control Agency Report has been referred to the 27th Legislature since it has not been discussed or declared invalid in the 26th Legislature period and has been sent back to our Commission by the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As a result of talks connected to the entire report on the 2017 Public Control Agency Report, the Karma Commission Report on Article 6328 has been adopted under Article 77 (77) of the Turkish National Assembly's Institution, which ensures that Article 22 of Article One of Article 6328 will be discussed immediately under the final sentence of Article One. Dear MPs, speaking of general statistics, the number of applications to the institution in 2017 is 17.131%. The increase is considered to be effective when the institution declares 2017 the Year of Active Awareness and acts to enhance its appearance. The number of applications made in 2017 increased by 210 per cent compared to 2016. The 28.04 per cent of applications to the institution in 2017 are related to the public staff regime; 26.15 per cent to education, education, youth and sports; 11.40 per cent to work and social security fields. In 2017, 17131 applications to the institution were examined, while the highest applications were the Ministry of National Education at 15.56 per cent, followed by the Ministry of Social Security at 8.57 per cent, local administrations at 8.31 per cent, universities and faculty at 6.53 per cent compared to 6.51 per cent, and the chairman of the Higher Education Board at 4.64 per cent. In 2016, the province of the institution's largest applications was the province of Istanbul with 17.68 per cent, as in previous years, followed by Ankara with 13.52 per cent, while Şırnak with only 6 complaint applications in 2016 was the third province compared to 5.24 per cent. As a result of the review of the complaint applications filed against the institution, one of the decisions in which the application is invalidated, the decision to merge, the decision to send it, the decision to send it, the decision to non-responsibility, the decision to reject it, the decision to reject it, the decision to refuse it, part of it, the decision to refuse it, and part of its recommendation. Precious lawmakers are ordered to be unsubstantiated for applications that are not in place of the institution's mandate, which do not have mandatory issues, which do not include a specific issue, which are seen in judicial bodies or which have been ruled out by judicial bodies, for reasons, reasons, issues, and parties that have already been concluded with the same ones. The application for the institution must be exhausted by administrative applications provided by Executive Judiciary Law 2577 and by mandatory administrative applications in private laws. The decision is made to submit administrative applications to the appropriate administration before they are exhausted. In accordance with Article 34 of the Law on the Applying of the Law of Public Controllership, it is decided that there is no place for a decision by the institution in the case of the complainant to give up his application, while the complainant is dead or the legal person is suspended, while the investigation and the investigation continue. As a result of the study and investigation, the decision of recommendation by the institution to conclude that the claims are valid is denied, but a partial recommendation is made if the complaint is found that some of the allegations are in place and some of them are not. The foundation's purpose is to seek and find a friendly solution because it exists. In this direction, the institution's contribution and the proper expression of services and reflective it to statistics... is the purpose of the institution's establishment on the Law of Public Controllership. Dear lawmakers, another issue I would like to express is the conditional reduced sentence and the condition of the prisons of the National Movement Party, which our leader, State Bahlı, has expressed as the National Movement Party Group. Instead of making an effort for the prisoners from terror, there are 250,000 poor people in prison, so we told them to deal with it. A certain proportion of the inmates in prison are the victims of the PKK and the rest of the PKK and fate. After removing the murderers, the abusers, let us see what's left; most of them are children, young. Life in prison is a life that doesn't fit in with human dignity. If they work this floor, Turkey could be led to a major disaster; it would be much scarier and far more brutal than the travel events; in prison people would be victims of fate and become victims of the PKK. What happens if they start a riot with an order? Remove the people who are victims of fate; let Turkey relax a bit; let it be rehabilitated. These terrorists are being held in two-man, three-man holdings. He's sending agents to the ward of criminals who are victims of fate, these terrorists, and they're spreading turmoil there. Prisons are becoming more dangerous than bombings in Afrin. To contribute to domestic peace is to solidify social embraces, to simplify the buildup in prisons, to repair the destruction of judges and prosecutors. He repeats the pardon. They say, "Alaattin Scavenger, Kurdistant Yilmaz pardon is coming." They say, "Don't hurry and don't recite it." Shouldn't we take the initiative to bring these people into society? What do those who stand up to the boy who plays the baklava want to tell us when it comes to the baklava people? Let the compromise be carried out in connection with crimes that have been committed. We're also considering the social dimensions of a reduced sentence; of course, we're considering the traumas caused by the victims, and we want justice to be served. Mr. President, in crimes against individuals, the state does not have the authority to forgive. We respect your approach, but we also know it's not the basis of the law. Target and intent are pure. Prisons are like a bomb. Our party's offer is not a pardon offer, it's a plea bargain. The exceptions of the proposal are one by one: crimes against the security of the state, manslaughter, child and woman abuse are out of bounds; crimes against Ataturk are out of bounds. Respected MPs, beyond this talk, I will make a brief assessment of Istanbul, and I will end my words: Tuzla is one of 39 districts of Istanbul. Tuzla is a country, a beautiful district. If anyone doesn't, I'd like them to visit and see Tuzla County. There is a leather industry and shipyards in Tuzla. There's a problem with chemical waste here. They need to be studied, investigated, followed by institutions; companies and companies who corrupt the beauty of that area, causing the spread of smell. Because the environmental problem is a human problem. The environment is a sign of civilization. Environmentalism is nationalism, environmentalism is a love of country. Hurting the environment is hurting the country. We share those feelings with you. There are also some problems in Istanbul that we've all had in recent days, where we've all been living all over Turkey. When the dollar was around $6.50, electricity, water, and natural gas increased, $5.50 today, and if we raise it by dollar, we have to bring it down by dollar. Because our people are in a tough spot, and the shopkeepers are closing down their shop before they do. There were good developments in the Plan and Budget Commission yesterday. Tax reductions in furniture, white goods, housing by the end of the year. Hopefully, there'll be discounts on electricity, water, natural gas. Because when I went to Istanbul and came to Istanbul for a short time, when I met a few friends, our friends with six or seven businesses told me that there was a 40 percent increase in electricity and natural gas. I know a debt to express their grievances in the High Council, so I'd like to express them to you here. I salute you all with my deepest love and respect. I wish the High Council success in the budget process. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0053par0274	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Ayşe Acar Başaran will speak. Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0054par0278	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, and I have taken a pledge from the Council of the Commission for Human Rights Review of Human Rights Report in 2017 on behalf of my group. But before we got to that, there were a lot of detentions in Batman yesterday, including our Batman Mayor and party manager. In particular, these types of operations have been conducted recently, in particular to our party, in order for us to clearly get away from the political arena, democratic politics. I want to say once again that these attacks, these operations will not deter us, that we will not give up this democratic politics, our will to transform Turkey. Again, I give my deepest regards to Mr. Leyla Güven. And to our fellow MPs in prison, who are being held prisoner. Dear friends, I'm going to talk to you now about this state-of-the-art audit report. A few examples of world examples and why this system is not kept in Turkey -- as it is explained in the report -- because an application has been concluded here, close to 300, and only part of it has been followed by a recommendation, but as a generality, neither has been able to give advice to the institution management, nor has the administration been able to carry out these recommendations. The main reasons for this may be to explore and to find solutions. Dear friends, once we call it public inspectorship, we show that we leave the world as an angle of view as soon as we put public opinion on it, because it's not even defined in any of the world's examples, it's actually starting with a definition that predates people, citizens, citizens, citizens. Once we, as I say, each time we show how powerful the public is, how we're at the public's side in the first place, and then, unfortunately, with our actions, we've shown it all the time. Again, as their own testimony, now there has to be a rule of law or a country of democratic standards in order for the Public Control Agency to really or work. Unfortunately, Turkey seems to have given up its will to become a democratic state of law, along with the State of Emergency, which has been declared especially after the July 15 coup attempt. It's mostly a one-man regime, where the entire community is shaped by the State of Emergency decrees, or the current new system change, by the decision made by one person. Once there's no democracy left here, nothing called a state of law. I'll give you an example of why there's no law state. At the beginning of my speech, dear friends, there was an operation in Batman yesterday. But about a month ago, there was another operation. It's really supposed to be a black joke. So I'd like to share with you a case that we could all laugh a little bit at on television, maybe a little bit? Batman was raided by one of our HDP voters, police, parents and children in the house. The police said: "We'll take one of the three of you and you decide between yourselves. " I mean, the state of the law. We've given the family, yes, the freedom to be detained, the freedom to show a will to arrest, the freedom to arrest, the freedom to speak now in Turkey, that's it. The father was naturally asked to be taken into custody and that father was arrested. I'm talking about where the law comes from. So we think it's very difficult for this institution to have jobs because there is no democratic law system in Turkey. In other countries, administrations in the presence of this institution are recommended to them... and in general there -- so in some countries, the decisions are different, but -- are recommended. But the recommendations made there are taken seriously by that institution because he does not want to be described as a government that restricts freedom or rights to the public, which acts unfairly towards the people. And that's something that's connected to democracy. It's even defined as a falcon without claws or an institution that doesn't scream but frowns. I mean, actually, like I said, it's an institution with no binding but morally, but socially binding. Most of our administration here doesn't even have to answer because they don't feel responsible. Dear friends, since we've already entered a one-man system... you've been making such nice things about the presidency, but you haven't decided whether it's the presidency or the presidency. You still can't decide. You can't even make up your mind about the pool media; a president says, "The president says," and now they're confused too. By the time we get to this one-man system, the administration has no accountability for the Parliament, let alone the institutions, they have no sense of accountability or accountability. So, in a place where this administration doesn't account for the House, we see that institutions no longer feel themselves in the situation of accountability here. They didn't give it to us, so we did. There's no word on what we say either. They call it. Now, we also think that the detection of the risk fields of this institution and its work in that direction are very problematic. Dear friends, I'm not just sitting here, I'm sitting here, there's a 500-page report, and I've studied it. But it wasn't hard, I'll tell you that it's something in the photography minivan because there are visits and so on and so forth, and there's the issue of this institution being introduced to society. But whose hand is this introduction made by? Look, I'll give you an example: at the International Ombudsman's Summit, the president of the AKP is speaking, and at that time, of course, there's no invasion of Afrin, yet there's no operation, and he's telling you what kind of operation there will be. That's what he says at the conference of a mechanism that protects human rights or rights. Again, at that time, the eve of the independence referendum in the Kurdistan federation, the ring shakes its finger; let it go; I mean, I don't talk about internal rights, or I'm past the constant threats to people, he's waving his finger there, and we're not going to accept it. It's done at this summit, dear friends. That's how this system, this institution, is introduced to the community, or at the meetings of this institution, at their conferences, I've studied them one by one... and the tours are as follows: For example, what are these risk areas, one of the biggest areas of this recent process? They were appointed trustees, but our agency went and visited the trustee. But how can people trust this institution and come and apply for it? Let's say the people who were wrongfully fired from the municipality or people who feel that their rights were violated after the trustees, why would they apply to an institution posing with the trustee, a supervisor? I wouldn't apply. Or there's another promotional meeting in Tripoli, where the Home Secretary's been called in, and he's talking. Dear friends, the Minister of the Interior is the governor's superior, the Chief Constable, the gendarme's superior. So why would these people come to this agency about violations from these areas or the injustices they've suffered? What kind of confidence will they feel? Where is the neutrality, independence of this institution? Where's the principle that you can't be connected to anyone? I don't have this. He's clearly in constant pose with power. Let me give you another example. Dear friends, the women's conference was held in 2017, and as I recall, the Human Rights Commission called in members of the AKP and other opposition parties. Despite my request, I was not accepted as a speaker at that meeting, despite my request. Now, who can we convince that this institution will act objectively and independently? I'd like to ask you that. Now, I'm going to tell you a few more of these areas of risk: Now, let's go back to those areas of risk, especially after curfews, when cities have been blockaded and there have been too many violations. Many cities have been destroyed. Here, Sur, Cizre, Şırnak, etc. And there, the property rights were completely violated, and the buildings were planted, and the people were displaced. So if this institution is really going to show its will to protect the public against the problems of society or, at work, to be the soluble force, it's going to have to go to these places and get people there to apply to this institution. A lot of people now lack property rights that are their most basic rights. Let me give you another example, folks, again, about a risk field, especially in the state of Emergency, where prisons have turned into a major right violation center, and there are a lot of examples of that. So the demands for this institution are in fact less than we can say at all. We can see how vast the demands to the Human Rights Association or other institutions are. Well, has our institution ever considered meeting with the Human Rights Association, for example, has there ever been a will to negotiate with these other institutions or in prisons to ensure that the application to the institution is developed? No. Well, there are partial applications, but very limited. Even to me -- sometimes dozens, hundreds of letters -- in this period of 2016, especially when there was an OHAL -- came letters about violations in prison. And did this institution also do this? There's a lot of people in prison who can't read or write. Did he make any attempt to get them to apply here? No. Now, I'm going to talk about another area of risk, there's a lot of risk, and there's a lot of law enforcement in the State of Emergency. Now, the institution that was most affected by the laws of the law was the EDUCATION-SEN. A lot of agencies have been visited. For example, have you ever been to education-SEN, where the responsible have been heard or directed? No. So there's actually an institution where we pretend and play democracy. Dear friends, first of all, we really need to change our perspective, so I've expressed a lot on this platform. There's work, I don't question it at all; there's work, but let's not take our perspective, our view of democracy, our view of rights and freedom from where we stand. Now, I'm going to say a few words about many of the members of this institution. It's not personal, but most of them are AKP-based, so the AKP's mayor is related to AKP-li. It's okay, they can make very independent, impartial decisions, but I'm talking about the perception they create. It seems to be an unreliable, disreputable institution in society. Not to go and give conferences in big, fancy buildings, with governors, trustees, with the Home Secretary, with the President; really, it's with the management of society's problems. Like I said, we see that's not happening. Now, I'm going to talk about one more risk field, and I'm going to finish it: women were again the biggest risk areas of this process. That's what our friend from the opposition party, the congressman, said. I've also followed the website of the institution, and there are six decisions about women, but none of them related to the fundamental issues that women have; none of them about sexist rhetoric, sexist approaches; social benefits and so on. Now, we see very clearly in Turkey, especially in the 16 years of AKP rule, how sexism has increased, and how this has been spread both by words and by society. Women's lawmakers here are being subjected to these sexist approaches, these sexist attacks, from their own lives, to their own opposition from power. So when violence against women has increased so much, when at least one woman has been subjected to violence a day and nearly 50 women have been murdered within a month, while most women can't get the alimony that you want to correct again, while most women are exposed to violence, systematic violence in both their workplaces and family, while they're still in custody, systematically exposed to women's identities, women's identity, women's identity, and if there's more, they can explain it to us, but they're not a hope for women themselves. Now, how can it be arranged, dear friends? For once, this institution -- we're here as a legislator -- has to be really respected. But like I said, first we need to adjust our view of democracy, of law, and we need to improve that perspective. The institution needs to be respected, and besides, the administration needs to know that this is the mechanism for public service. Again, the state must be aware that it is the mechanism that will act for the interests of the people or for the interests of the people. He's not hostile to a citizen of the state. He doesn't seek revenge on a citizen of the state. That's the kind of process we're going through right now. In all areas, the government is acting on its approach, with the will to take revenge on this community, the people. He needs to give it up, and this society needs to solve its problems. Prison issues, violence against women, women's rights issues, child rights issues... Look, this institution needs to work primarily on children in the process of this level of abuse. You know, it's possible that I've put a lot of meaning into it, but really, in law states, in developed law, democratic law states, this institution is a mechanism that changes society, transforms society, inhibits governance. Maybe we should work harder for him, dear friends. Now, like I said, one needs to be respected, and it needs to be initiatived. Third, you have to make it really neutral, independent. If we don't make these things happen, dear friends, we've established 100 other institutions, we've established a thousand other institutions, we've established a thousand other institutions, we've changed the laws, we've seen there's no solution, there's no solution. We've established the Human Rights Foundation before, and there's no solution because people know that when they apply here, their problems won't be solved. Again, we opened the Public Control Agency, but it doesn't work because people don't believe their problems can be solved here. If we really have the will to resolve, let's have a common will here, as all groups in the House. So, the solution, the way and the way of all the problems here is this Parliament itself. We are the power to make changes in the law. Look, we've been getting a lot of problems from prisons, and they've been there, too, on the matter of execution, on the matter of supervised freedom. Of course, the prison administration didn't care. They didn't even file his petition. But right now, there's a big problem with supervised freedom, there's a huge crisis, and the power to solve it is with their own advice, this Assembly itself. I have no ties to the organization even to propaganda through social media. The petition is being signed, dear friends. Now, if he's a member of an organization, it's supposed to be a decision, but even if it's just propaganda, they're trying to get him to sign a petition like that. The demands of those who have not signed this petition are not even delivered to relevant locations. This was clearly written in this report, too. This is the power of resolution, the House itself. I really think that if we show that will, we might be able to solve all these problems. But first, please, let's not want law, justice, democracy just for ourselves. Law, justice, democracy happens when we all meet in common. The law is not neutral and independent as long as it is applied to one another and to another. Democracy is not defined as a democracy as long as one group talks and the others are silent and crushed. So I'm thinking, let's talk about problems here and more, and we'll work it out in a democratic legal state. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0055par0304	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Manisa MP Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0056par0307	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We thank the Honorable President of the Public Control Agency, its executives, its representatives, its employees, who are working at this institution today, for their hard work, and we salute them on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. In the September 12, 2010 referendum, where the country's judiciary was handed over to, neither we nor any opposition party opposes it, but it was one of the ingredients that was covered with sugar around three of it's toxic substances, including taking over HSYK, which we said would pass through the parliament on its own. We thought we'd all take it in the House. No, we're going to find it as sugar, let it take over the judiciary, let the HSYK arrangement pass. It's covered in poison. On 29 June 2012, the Law No. 6328 was published in the Official Gazette. The most common institution in the world is the public defendership. The fact that it's called the Public Control Agency, it's actually a public perception that it controls the public, but the message that it's carved into the subconscious with the name is that it's also public on one side. He's not even independent. In a moment, we're going to make some developmental suggestions on what he needs to do and be more independent. Mr. Honor Malkoch is the 2nd head of the institution. Mehmet Nihat Ömeroğlu was the first chief of staff. Mr. Malkoc keeps an open channel of communication that is expected of him -- at the time of the report -- when we demand that this report be discussed in parliament -- when he takes advantage of the report and gives direct information to the public, as well as to the information he sent to the groups. This is a practice that works very well in Sweden, in Western Europe, with good results and is highly established in the right-seeking and right-seeking culture of citizens. Since the first day we tried to make a positive contribution to the settlement of this culture in Turkey. Of course, in the early years, it wasn't going well, and it was a matter of whether or not the Assembly took it seriously, as well as by its own admission of decisions. There will be those who will remember, if I'm not mistaken this year in January, the reports in 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013, each of which should be discussed before the end of the next year, the report of the four years was here at once, and the point we agreed on was this: I took the promise and said that we hoped that it would never be repeated again, and all the groups took separate promises. Mr. Belma's statements on the reports on that day also pointed to today. We discussed the issue with Mr. Honor Malkoç, as we approached this year's budget, with the awareness that there had been much more responsibility for an institution that had been audited on behalf of parliament in a parliament with the main opposition responsibility and the control authority of the Parliament, and as the budget was slowly approaching this year's final agenda, we both addressed it to the press and applied it to Mr. Bülli Yıldırım. Now, when these applications go unanswered, when they're insensitive, we criticize them. Against this appeal, both the ruling party's members of the group, both Mr. Malkoc and Binali Yıldırım, responded positively, and we are here today, discussing this report. Of course, when we evaluated the report in numbers to see what kind of cargo and what kind of area, 52,486 applications have been submitted from 2013 until now, and 17.131% of them have been the subject of this report within the year. Of course, the institution doesn't give them a direct decision, or a lot of decisions he's made; he can refuse the application, he can count it, he can decide to send it, he can decide to be unexamined, he can decide on a friendly solution, and he can take decisions that we've talked about a lot. He's made 245 recommendations this year. Rather, it is necessary to use the concept "tavvye" instead of "admissible." 353 of the applications were rejected, and 177 of them were rejected in part. Of course, the performance of institutions, such as the Public Control Agency, is measured by the proportions of compliance with their decisions. This was at a terrible level in the past - 15 percent of them, 20 percent of them, 27 percent of them. This period, the report refers to the ratio of sleep to 65 per cent. The world average is 75 to 80 percent. So the road is important, but there are a lot of ways to go, and we have an objection to 65 percent. Because when 65 percent is calculated, the institution is taking the rate of compliance with her recommendations. However, there are those who are completely unresponsive to the case sent to him, or rather to the information sent to him by the institution, in fact, by the administration that pretends to be dead against the institution, or who sees the institution in any way. If you include that, I mean, the institution has tried, but when you add the ones that are unresponsive because of the administration's lack of reaction, the sleep rate drops to 53.5 percent. So there are 422 recommendations, 349 of which the administration has responded, followed 226. So 65 percent of 349 is 226%, but if your recommendation is 422, then it's actually 53.5 percent, you have to see that. There's a lot of road to take. The route is important, but we're not even halfway there yet, and it's never, never, ever acceptable until 80 percent of us are caught. In the meantime, I'd like to draw some attention to a few decisions. I mean, why do we care about the institution, why do we care about it? In opposition, we're going to ask the president to be the main opposition. This is in our election programme. However, we will select the public auditors, and all the supervisors -- and all the auditors in the past -- you've also been criticized by the AK/Budsmans -- not by taking one person from that method, non-negotiable, or from each group -- but by the majority of leaders -- let it be all mine. It's all mine. But we care about the institution. Why are we shaking? For example, one of your decisions, the institution, said: "We still don't have child delivery agencies on our agenda." These days, it's being resolved, the arrangements have been made. After this warning from the Agency, the step is important. When he didn't give the kid up on divorced parents' day, the executive offices came in. This institution contributed to the solution to this problem. Let's put it another positive way: Namik Kemal University's Rectorship has made such an ad that he's described a person. As a result of the application, the institution said: "This is a personal ad. " And that's extremely important. So, what's not to be followed? Here, the ones who are asleep are important, but the ones who aren't are critical. In verbal interviews, the institution gives critical warnings to the Ministry of Justice about objectiveness, so it says that when you take judges and prosecutors, you make objective criteria, not objective criteria, but subjective criteria. It's true when you look at what happened. I'll tell you a story that doesn't exist: see how far this story has come, where it's come from. We care about this to do a conscience accounting. We're visiting with our president in a women's prison on March 8th. At a certain age, she's a female death guard, respected by all the staff around her known to be a worker. The woman's story is, she only has one son. The father dies when his son is only 3 or 4 years old. He's on a salary, and he's starting to raise his son on that salary. In these impossible situations, this boy becomes such a hard-working boy by contributing to his mother's struggle to hold on to life and by exploiting him, that he passes every class and wins Ankara University School of Law from his first student's quota. He's not there either -- but he's not there -- he's doing consulting work, he's doing other jobs, he's going to school, he's running, he's finishing law school with a degree. He's got one dream; he's gonna be one of the prosecutor's uncles he's seen since he was a kid. He takes the exam, and the first test is 1,800,000 people, and he is called to the interview, and he is eliminated. He's ambitious, and this time he's working harder, and this time, he's the third of almost 20,000 people or tens of thousands of people, and he's going to interview again, but he's desperate, and we know it. There are really subjective criteria in this period. We surrender to subjective criteria for the delivery of a right, and we make an official appointment, not in secret; and with Veli Ağbaba (Paris) we explain the situation more fully to the Attorney General of the Ministry of Justice. The Undersecretary says: "Well, but the Minister must also know. " We hear, we are appointed from the Demirci of Manisa. We make a phone call to him, we tell him this, do you know about him?" They say, "It's very important. I've never melted; I don't like opposition MPs to go to the Minister, I've never done it in my life for a voter, a relative, my wife, my friend; I've stood up for this child, I've told the whole story. I'll give you the boy's name, and he'll be on the report. His name is Huseyin Can. This friend has one flaw that's been identified so far, this boy Alevi, and this boy thinks he's not assigned for it. Could this child be a GERP? His mother's still in Sincan Women's Prison, and you'd kick his ass. Could this child be connected to another terrorist organization, for example? If that were the case, I think this kid would've been in a state of rage somewhere, sort of hanging out at night. We gave it to him, Mr. Secretary took it, put it in his pocket, put it in his pocket. The result has been announced, Hüseyin Can has not been assigned again. Now, this issue of subjective criteria, from the age of four, is now playing with the dreams of a very small Hüseyin Can. But let's make this a bit of a family matter, Mr. Chief Inspector. Tell that to the groom. You know the relationship between the groom and the father-in-law, the Minister of Justice and your son-in-law, take this aside, father-in-law like this, tell him, tell him: here's where your agency didn't listen to the Head of Public Affairs. You didn't follow this report, I said subjective criteria, you didn't set objective criteria, but they told you this story 50 times. It has been criticised and ignored for not charging overtime, such as the costs of employees working within the National Ministry of Defence are extremely low. There are dozens of unresolved decisions, but there's another place we're missing. What's that? There's been an emergency period, incredible injustices, incredible injustices during the State of Emergency. The principle of personality of crime has been taken down and people's futures have been tampered with. One day, the court said you're innocent. There are still victims who have been proven innocent by the court that you can't be reinstated. We think the Society of Public Control should have been braver at its own position. There's a fifth clause in the Health Commission today, it says that doctors, dentists who have been discharged from office because of this terrorist organization... have no punishment, no prosecution; if there is a punishment, he can't do his job when he's been severely punished for more than a year. You say: "He will not work in any contract hospital with the Social Security Agency. " You mean eating tree root and applying the formula for doctors and dentists. There's a danger here, it's in all of our interests. If you corner the cat, he'll rip your face off. He was not punished, not directly involved; he was expelled from a school, a school, for some reason, and now let me burn the diplomam, and let no bread pass through it. This system produces this logic, this logic produces thieves, this logic produces extortionists, this logic produces enemies, God forbid, assassins. Don't do this anymore: once you've become a philosopher, there's no chance of life for me. If you start thinking about it, you'll turn people against the government. That's why it's important for both of us to look down at that mistake that's going on up there today. You're going to criticize public supervision, you've got one right. If they say, "Dat, I'll answer" -- we asked a hundred people, 80-something people. He said, "You know what Erol Evgin said?" I say, "You're insensitive to the Saturday Mothers' issue." Saturday's Mothers is not today's issue, it's the dirty, land period of the 1980 coup, it's the white Toros of the 1990s. Our president made a promise, he said... this is the most shameful time in the Mothers of Saturdays. Why? They closed Galatasaray Square to their mother on Saturday. For years, they preached their voices peacefully, closed their mouths, sprayed tear gas, sprayed orange gas, made those mothers cry once more. We had a promise to those mothers that your voice would be the seat of the House. Since then, our president, I've kept that promise. This week, I'm reading about their mother -- for example -- we're randomly choosing, not the saddest -- and we're telling them that they ate gas on it, and we haven't forgotten Huseyin Toraman in the 27th year of the loss in custody. At the age of 24, Hüseyin Toraman was abducted on the morning of October 22, 1991 by armed, radioed, civilian clothing outside his home in İstanbul, being forced to ride white Torosa with 34 AZ 56 plates. Witnesses are calling the police and warning them to kidnap him at gunpoint. The police who have received information from witnesses are leaving without interfering after a tradesman's business phone calls. Çınar Police Chief says Hussain was not kidnapped, he was taken into custody by political police, so he did not intervene. The father, Ali Riza Toraman, secretly records this statement from the chief at the police station and makes the Interior Minister of the period listen to this recording. The Home Secretary says he has not been questioned in this audio recording. İstanbul Police Director Mehmet Agar tells the family that your son is safe, go home, he will return home. The investigations, the statute of limitations, the decision to black out on the case is being lifted as a result of appeals made by IHD attorneys, but the case remains in drag. We ask that all officers responsible for the loss of Huseyin Toraman have been punished as a result of a fair trial. In this regard, we invite judgment to the post. How much longer will the Public Control Agency be insensitive to their mothers on Saturday? Wasn't the struggle of Berfo Ana, who died at the age of 106, to find her son Cemil Kırbayir, who was killed on September 12th, brought tears to all of our eyes? Didn't Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who had taken the lives of that September 12th fascism, describe it as propaganda material in a referendum that he wanted so badly, and cry and make you cry on the stand? Didn't he take his mothers in his office this Saturday, get emotional with them, tell them about them at a Tuesday meeting at the AKP Group, and get them to applaud the balcony? Now you have to see how this is so insensitive. In my last time, well, it's a private matter, not a general one. If you call it that, then it's important to explain the situation of Osman Kavala, who is most likely to suffer from long imprisonment. It's a key issue that we're looking forward to initiating the Public Control Agency, the long arrests and the subjective criteria. Osman Kavala, a year has passed and the indictment has not been filed. Mr. Honor Malkoç, the indictment against Arda Turan has been filed in one day. What mechanism is the mechanism that puts Arda Turan (Arda Turan) on trial and releases him in one day, so that there will be no grounds for arrest? Or the indictment of Osman Kavala a year later, when Osman Kavala had to testify that if he needed someone to testify, he would probably have the least witnesses on this side.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0057par0324	Mr. Special, extra time...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0056par0325	Why doesn't any dynamic Osman Kavala write up his indictment a year later? And we face a fact that your world leader decides who gets in this country, who gets out, the other leaders of the world. Merkel makes a phone call. I never let him go. Unless this body goes out of his way, the more he stands in this body, the more he is called Deniz Yücel, the more he himself is surprised that I entered without law, the more I went out of law. Macron releases two French journalists. Schröder Büyükada can end his embarrassment with one phone call, and the last one to do what he said was Trump's turning, bringing the priest in, putting him on his knees. But does it have to be a phone call from a world leader to get out of Osman Kavala? Isn't it the republic's duty to be an orphan when there are no world leaders to search? If today's government, representing the state of this republic, isn't there something they have to say about it? I was hoping to get my words to you by the channel of the lawyers...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0057par0327	Mr. Special, just a minute... Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0056par0329	I'd like to complete my first year of residence in Silivri. I believe those who accuse me of trying to overthrow constitutional order and government realize that I have nothing to do with these crimes every day. But this learning process is at the expense of my freedom. Months less of my life. I want to get my freedom, my family, my friends, as soon as possible. However, I also find it vital that long imprisonments and detentions before the court, which have been an immediate punishment that we have been trying to highlight for years, should be put to rest. I hope my situation will contribute to a better understanding of the damage done to the citizens and judiciary of the Republic of Turkey by this crippled arrest regime. I think the extradition of their freedom to victims due to an understanding that violates the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights norms that does not value human freedom is one of the state's top priorities." Says Osman Kavala. As I started at the beginning, I'd like to say that, starting with the amendment, we support... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Lastly, I'm tidying up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0058par0333	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0056par0334	We discussed a report of an institution that we support starting with the constitutional amendment, especially in a parliament that has restricted control powers, which we find crucial to the strengthening of an institution on behalf of Parliament, that we strongly encourage, that some of the decisions it has made, that we commend, that we appreciate, that the overcoming of objections to some of the decisions will be extraordinarily important for the democracy of Turkey. And after that, we must accept reports without delay during the year, that the proportions of integration should be raised above 80 per cent, such as in Sweden, Western Europe, but in the activities of this institution, there is a significant portion of its report to the Turkish National Assembly, or there are demands, and we must accept them because it is a country with a more just and respect for human rights, and I respectfully salute you all, that it will do its part in this matter.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0058par0336	Now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Manisa MP Ismail Bilen. Here you go, Mr. Knower.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0059par0339	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group regarding the 2017 People's Association Report. I salute your high council. I'd like to begin by thanking all of our fellow presidents and executives who have served at the Public Control Agency, and from now on, Mr. Honor Malkoc and his colleagues, his experts, his employees. In fact, I had a speech text, which I was hoping to stick to, but some of our friends, some of the speakers, have a few criticisms, and I'd like to start with some of those reviews, and then I'd like to get into some evaluations on the institution. Some of the preachers brought some criticism about health, education, agriculture, justice, EYT, etc. Again, another orator of ours may have criticised some of the issues that have been seen in the judiciary and have been subject to complaint, but first I would like to remind my friends that as a lawyer, our Constitution will describe this and advise us that there is no discussion in the Parliament in matters that have been brought to justice. Now, the subject of the judiciary and the investigation are also kept secret. The principle of the matter is that we are not, in which cases prosecutors, judges, and actions are being performed for what reason they are being done here, or to share with the public, perhaps the evidence related to that crime will also be judged or destroyed. Therefore, our Constitution and our laws are therefore in order that there should be no discussion of the matter in the Parliament, if possible, if possible, in matters that have been brought to justice. There are other issues that are being criticised. Health: There must be some shortages, but it would be a little unfair of me to judge, even at times, the quality of service that some of you may have witnessed -- the quality that we find in health -- when you ask the citizen. I'm a friend of yours who's been active in politics for thirty-five years. In the past, I was covered by social security. When I became a congressman, when I opened my report card, I saw that I never applied to Social Security Hospitals one day. Why? We couldn't have been treated or examined in those institutions. What we come to today in health is far, far ahead of Europe. We've got a big city hospital in Manisa, a city hospital, a five-star hotel. The services that have not been provided in Europe are being provided here, with jet ambulances, helicopter ambulances, and some of the practices that we have heard in Europe, which we envy, have now become a reality in our country. There was a green card story that we remember from the past, that even if the green card was examined, he wouldn't be able to take any medication, so the victims were taken care of. What we've come to in education is that we've built similar closed spaces in the history of the Adeta Republic. We didn't just hand out textbooks, we gave out smart boards, computer settings, we gave them to our schools, we gave them to our students. If there is a flaw in this, this criticism is acceptable, but as if nothing had been done, as if it had been worse, as if it had been worse than the situation before 16 years, it does not apply to justice or justice. What about agriculture: our total harvest in agriculture, our exports were $3.5 billion. Today, Turkey has not invaded any land, it has not added new lands to its country, but has achieved a total of $16 billion export capacity, providing efficiency, machinery, industrialisation. Is that enough? No, of course it's not enough. Should he be moving any further? I respect these criticisms, but it would be unfair of me to put together the success we have achieved today with the bad practices of the past. Justice: Dear friends, there is no institution that has not infiltrated until now. The AK PARTI is not a flourishing structure with its power. An organization that infiltrated the state's organs almost 40 years ago, 50 years ago, maybe even more years ago. He tried to infiltrate every political party, he tried to communicate with every political party in some way, and he found support from time to time within those political parties -- I don't mean, I don't say hostile, maybe by not knowing, maybe by exploiting the patriotic emotions they use, it would be a great injustice to bring in an organization like this today that he's been trying to infiltrate every political party, and maybe to connect us with some of the national and spiritual emotions he's been having at times with us or other political parties. Again, I say this not to say hello to anyone, but to the common opinion of the public: Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, if he hadn't been found, if he hadn't started this fight, there wouldn't have been a political party, a political leader, who could have fought this fight. I'm talking about public perception. Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan started, especially in the MSI crisis, especially in the December 17th-25th operations that he expressed, and at times, because of his practices on their organs, their media organs, some of our friends, some of our political parties, perhaps not knowing, but perhaps knowingly went to support them. This attempt, of course, happened to the political institution, which, of course, was also committed against the ruling AK PARTY governments, but it was also an attack against the nation. Thank you all. I was one of those who came here that night, with his son, to find this coven, this sacred roof open. My fellow countrymen, the group's vice presidents were with us again. Because of this common attitude, this attack has been eliminated. The nation's strength, intelligence, and conquest have ruled out this great threat and danger. Again, Mr. Honor, I come to personal criticism of Malkoch. It's not a crime to be an AK PARTY, it's not bad to be part of another party, it's not bad to be a member. Let's not ruin the political institution by our own hands, please. There should be no criticism when members of the political institution come to a place. If so, it should be because of their decisions or their actions.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0060par0349	That's exactly why we're criticizing, and we want justice and righteousness.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0059par0350	Is there a situation in Malkoch the Honour that you see as unfair or unfair?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0060par0351	It's loaded, it's loaded.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0059par0352	A group of our vice presidents, my dear fellow citizens, on the contrary, said they worked very closely with them and thanked themselves.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0060par0353	No, honor is not in Malkoch's possession.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0061par0354	No, no. Don't twist my words, I know what I'm saying.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0062par0355	Guys, let's not talk in person, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0063par0356	Mr. Ismail, let's continue.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0061par0357	The relationship's the way it's supposed to be... that's the way it is... I talked for 20 minutes, everybody knows what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0064par0358	Honor has nothing to do with Malkoch.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0065par0359	Let's not talk mutually, dear friends. Mr. Orator, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0361	Dear friends, if the decisions are accepted by society and the conscience of society does not bother you, then it is also your right to criticize these decisions, but you must respect them. If he had appointed someone from the Republican People's Party or from the National Movement Party or from the GOOD PARTY or one of the Peoples' Democratic Party, would he not have had a political identity?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0067par0362	Not that one, either.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0363	Do you want us to get rid of the political identity?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0067par0364	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0365	So, like they said in September 12th, we take universities or places like this out of the political institution's initiative? You want us to raise these people like weed?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0067par0366	No representation. Don't make the former mayor an inspector of the public institution.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0068par0367	You guys keep the balance, keep the balance. You're throwing them all the same.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0368	I'm saying it in terms of merit and driver's license. Each of our friends in the past, both in their political lives and in areas where they serve... we have friends from school, who have served as trustees, managers of property, or who have served as judges in the Supreme Court or other institutions, and I agree to be criticized for the decisions made by our friends. However, it is not right for me to agree to be associated with a political party in the past or to be influenced by that party or to be criticized for being part of it. I'm saying it's wrong to even be critical. You may disagree with my opinion. Look, in the past, again, I mean, maybe some of our friends will be taken, sad, but who did Sweden get this app from? Where did the establishment, which we call "Ombudsman" come from? It's gone from our geography, part of our culture, part of our civilization. We've practiced this for years. In his war with the King of Sweden, Russia, he took refuge in Turkey, in Ottomans, and carried an application he saw in Ottomans as a beautiful practice for his own country, but we abandoned it in our own country. Now, as if we were reinventing the world, as if we were reinventing America, we returned this practice from Sweden and called it the Lambudsmanism. But it's a system that we have, a system that's applied to us, part of our civilization, part of our culture. Dear friends, this practice has provided us with good services in the past, re-enlisted for this service, and as the number of appeals has been limited or later recognised by the fact that it has not been known in practice, it has been directed to the institution as long as it is known. In the past, I have worked as a member of the Council of Appeals, along with Mr. Belma Hanim, and from time to time I have served in subcommittee. It's not right to be presented as if the Ministry or the government had resistance, as if there was resistance to the institution's decisions. We had friends from the opposition parliamentary party there, and as head of the subcommittee, I personally did the harshest criticism to the representatives of the institution, and I was congratulated and thanked by my friends by my fellow opposition parliamentary friends. Why? There's a Taassup in the institutions. There's no way you're going to break down a 90-year-old institutional contract, and you're going to change it right away. When we asked them why they didn't comply with the recommendations given by the agency -- and I said that in our last conversation -- some were concerned that if they didn't know the institution, because they didn't know the institution, that he would take the advice he gave, that he would have to deal with something criminal or legal, that he would have to investigate. So we told them, we said to our friends -- by our friends -- that from time to time -- to our friends who have shown this resistance: that the recommendation from this constitutional institution does not give you any criminal or legal responsibility in the examination of the Court, as long as you prove that you have followed the institution's advice. And after that, maybe this pressure in the institutions, or the resistance, has slowly begun to collapse. So it's like... oh, there's also been the way that both the institution and we, from time to time, tend to overstep our bounds, or our actions, or our powers. In the past, our friends had a habit. From time to time, I ask the critics, were we very happy with the judgment in the past? Were the decisions made so accurate? We all remember the '90s. Were the actions of the Attorney Generals of the Republic of the '90s too legal, too righteous? These institutions are trying to adapt to new justice, law, universal law, justice. Many of these institutions were deprived of places to serve, and many of them were again in the past, unfortunately, subcontractors of a low terrorist organization. The decisions he made during our time in power are also evident, especially in the decisions made by the state prosecutors or the prosecutors of the republic or the judges of the MIT trucks. Are these very fair, very righteous, universal law-based decisions, or not ideological? These were the institutions that supported his sense of custody, fueled his sense of custody, or tried to solidify it. Does anyone know the name of the Supreme Court Attorney? I don't know the name of the Supreme Court Attorney.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0069par0372	You've got to know, you've got to know!
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0373	Well, then you know.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0069par0374	A lot of you do!
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0375	But I don't know, and neither do the Turkish people. Back in the day, there were warriors, there were warriors, there were those who fought and took them. They would have made decisions that would have slaughtered both conscience and law, and then no one would have made a sound. And here's to their mother's actions on Saturday. Of course, we must support and defend democratic actions until the end, but we must resist, especially you and I, for example, when some of the illegal organisations, separatist organisations, or extreme left-wing organisations, come and turn it into a place of abuse.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0070par0378	See, see? Did you get there?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0379	If they're wiped out of here, then it means something. Let them speak only to the AK PARTY, and make some attacks on the AK PARTY. The travel events were one of them, three or five trees were an excuse, but there were also some reckless reactions that would shake public authority or raid Dolmabahçe Palace. For years, these practices have been asked to be humiliated in Turkey, sometimes from the inside, sometimes from the outside, and legitimately elected governments. We all had to stand up to it together. We all had to stand up to it together. In which country of Europe can a demonstration or action be viewed as a democratic act to ignore public authority or plunder public goods? I've never heard such criticism from a political party. In those days, on the contrary, I witnessed a number of words that would further provoke and encourage these actions, and that was very sad for the political institution. When we shut down some of these institutions, when we shut down the organization's institutions, publishing organs, newspapers, schools, classrooms, banks, some of our friends went out there and resisted. Now, can we stand next to this, sir, a democratic act, a democratic attitude, a liberal approach? This organization, which is trying to take over all public institutions, is attempting to coup against political institutions, legitimately elected government. Can we now declare these friends, perhaps not knowing, perhaps because of their good will? The merger of the two Germans includes decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights. Look, there's been a number of attacks in our country, a cop killed the Russian Ambassador. Could we say, sir, that there was no verdict against you? There was no verdict on the attacker, there was no warrant, there was no warrant for his arrest. If we had relieved this man of his position, if we had prevented this attitude... look, there's a possibility that either the person without a verdict or the person without an investigation could be involved in such actions over time. In case this is the case, the state... look, all states are like this, and I'm giving you an example from Germany, and I'm saying the European Court of Human Rights has decided that the state can take some measures to protect itself, not work with them in its institutions, and it can demonstrate that initiative.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0071par0381	The state protects the people, the people. The government is for the public.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0382	Can the state live with the constant concern of what action, what attempt, what attack? That's why it's right to take certain precautions.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0072par0383	You should have taken precautions on time, on time.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0384	But, of course, the principle of the individuality of crimes must be followed. For the crime of his uncle's son or his brother's actions...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0073par0385	He's no exception.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0066par0386	If you have anything to say, I suggest you say it from here.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0074par0387	In 2004... then why didn't you take precautions?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0075par0388	Dear Man, please, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0074par0389	Then why didn't you take precautions?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0076par0390	We were not priests then, nor were we clairvoyants.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0077par0391	I've been warning you so many times...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0076par0392	If we'd known that this citizen was going to attempt something like this, something like this, I think we'd have suspended him, too. But that is not the case with all those who have been exposed. There are some who are right, there are some who are victims, there may be victims.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0078par0394	If it's personal, you're canceling the children's passports.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0076par0395	There has been a search for rights. As a result of this right-seeking method, it must, of course, do its part in the return of innocent friends to their duties, both the Ministry and the Public Control Agency. I, my dear fellow citizen, would like to finish my words by greeting you from where the group's vice president left you. It's promising, 65 percent is not something to underestimate. The goal should not be 80 percent; the goal should be to capture maybe 100 percent. The Public Control Agency is acting on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We need to avoid words that will wear our friends down, especially those that I will join Free Bey. At the point of further recognition, further knowledge of this institution and further increase of applications to the institution, our Parliament must do its part more than enough. And I thank the institution very much for the work they've done so far, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0079par0399	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0080par0400	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0081par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0080par0402	No, if the AK PARTY is going to respond, I'd be happy to... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0082par0404	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0083par0407	You're very elegant, my dear fellow, thank you. In fact, our esteemed congressman explained on behalf of our group, but I'd like to express a few things. Of course, the facility of justice is not easy, only the world has seen that justice cannot be built through courts, and it is looking for different models to spread its sense of justice. The case of ombudsmanism is a modeling that is developed to give both individuals and institutions a different approach to the establishment of justice, a modeling that has a radical history, applications in the world. There are other kinds, one of them is the mediation process. Now, while I'm listening to the objections of valued lawmakers, I see there's a fundamental error in approach. This isn't a court, so there are objections to ombudsmanism...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0082par0410	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0083par0411	I know, but I'd like some leniency because we have something in common based on the importance of the matter. And yet, their approach here is not to think of it as a court establishing a final decision, because what comes out here is that it's been endeavored to go from example events to behavioral change in institutions in the ombudsman business. When we look at this, we can see the samples, they've explained them to us beautifully. For example, it may seem a little different, but -- a change in attitude to the situation in divorces where fathers can't see their children, the removal of practices related to execution, the more careful application of children's rights, the differences in the approaches of local governments, the different approaches in human rights practices, and also the development of model models in the implementation of disability rights in the Ministry of National Education, we can increase them. So from here, I want to make this clear. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm asking you one last time.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0084par0415	Wait a minute... Let's wrap it up, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0083par0417	I'd actually like to point out that what the Ombudsman establishment does is that it prefers to take a course of behavioral change based on the issues it deals with. Without benefit, the citizenship criteria are an alternative justice-seeking mechanism that anyone can resort to any kind of path without being searched. Before I forget that, I have to say it. And in the numbers, I think our member of the group, who's from the Good PARTY, is making a miscalculation. There are over 17,000 applications, 14,000 of which have been answered. He said he wanted to write it down. If I grade it as a number, I prefer to give you a grade that corresponds to 90 out of 85, which is what the numbers say. GOOD PARTY had another issue. It's clear to us that married couples related to the University of Hitit are among those who are forbidden to marry in the Civil Law. I just received word from the rectory that nine married couples came to the university and 10 married in college. I guess there's no marriage ban in college, that's what we know. And yet, it's a beautiful thing, married people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0085par0421	Mr. Special, here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0086par0423	Mr. President, of course, I specifically tried to stay away from polymia. To be informed of a right-seeking path, to have results, should be encouraged to be taken. I looked at it that way, but we know what we're talking about. In particular, it was a little unfair to say that after saying that the ombudsmans had been appointed as, that I was no longer concerned about it. But what I'm going to say about the mothers on Saturday is that if they're illegal organizations, illegal organization propaganda, whatever, there's a bad guy in GBT, and if they're going out there and they're practicing, let the government question themselves, but we know there's something we're witnessing. Come with me on a Saturday, where there are tears of tears, wives, children, daughters who have lost their father in their mother's womb, but have grown up to be 20 years old, crying. We can't just sit here and fool the public like this.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0087par0426	Mr. Free, I've lived my life in action, so we'll go and see.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0086par0427	I'm not talking to you, I'm not talking about the Saturday Mothers...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0088par0428	Let's turn on the mike. Let's not interfere, friends, please, let's not talk in person.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0086par0430	The second issue, again, is that in response to what our precious Manisa MP has been talking about on the stand, we reject the fundamental judgment you've come up with about travel events and the perception you have. The travel events came out of a sense of the environment, which warned the Taxi Platform for months against the work being attempted, and those who turned it into a conflict that night and caused a social explosion were now tried from the ground; you appointed them, your bureaucrats who were criminalizing the issue were your bureaucrats, who twisted a peaceful act. Now let me tell you something. If anyone tried to raid Dolmabahçe Palace, they would be punished, and your courts judged. Look as I don't know anyone who was punished for raiding Dolmabahçe Palace, I don't know what else: 50 naked, six leather pants attacked our headscarved sister, and her child in the stroller was miserable, crying. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, this is the last time I ask you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0089par0434	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0086par0435	Someone told me that, I watched the President, I'm going to share the footage on Friday. A number of journalists were found, and I trembled as I watched. It turned out to be all fiction and lies. If God's servant can't come out, if you come out and show me the image that you haven't shown me, I'll leave the parliament here, that's all I'm saying, that's it. But the pressures you put on the Dolmabahçe name... ran away to Allah's house. They came in, there's no bad behavior. Did they drink? They didn't drink. And he brought it, and put it in the box, and took a picture, and departed. And ye banished the imam of Dolmabahçe, because he had testified. You don't know the phenomenon of travel, the perception you create or believe in has nothing to do with reality. It's unfair to talk about it there, it's unfair and it's immoral and it's shameful. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0090par0438	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0091par0439	Mr. Acar Başaran, you...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0090par0440	And I'd like to make a statement on the matter, because it's usually about what we're saying...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0091par0441	Probably according to 60, because I'm promising the group's deputy presidents a little different.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0090par0442	Since the group doesn't have a vice president, I'd like a word on his behalf.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0091par0443	Here you are, Mr. Acar Basian.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0090par0445	Dear President, I think a few things need to be explained. First of all, we didn't know that this institution worked as a branch of the AKP, because almost all of its institutions are full of similar political structures. The speaker friends also have a sense that this institution is theirs alone. While we were doing our reviews, we presented our suggestions. We've also said a lot about how this institution is going to work better. All we really care about is the protection of this society against the wrong practices of governance. The government is for the public. There's a government because it's a people. It's because management is a people. In that respect, we offered our suggestions for this development. Like accusations of such weariness, it is also a question of twisting our words each time. Secondly, I'd like to say a few words about their mother on Saturday.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0092par0449	Let's open it up, guys. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0090par0451	Each time, our friends say that this council bench is not a courtroom, but each time, especially when it comes to the Mothers of Saturday, it's decided by the House's bench, it's delivered, and the execution of this decision is carried out every Saturday at Galatasaray Square. These families have been fighting the same battle there for years. I'm one of those families. Same way I lost my father to unsolved murders in 1993, and I understand what that means, so let the people who understand. Those people are looking for the bones of their children, their wives, their fathers. This is the most democratic and conscientious request. I think it would be better if we acted with a little sensitivity when we took their names in our mouths. Thank you, guys.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0092par0453	Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0455	Mr. President, while I was away, Mr. Justice and Development Party Deputy Director, our friend here said I used some false statements about the numbers.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0094par0456	Yeah, he's here. We can take a look.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0457	I didn't get these from any library in the house.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0094par0458	Here, I'm getting it right here. It's written right here.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0459	It's all here now, I repeat, in the statistics of reports on the activities of the Public Control Agency 2017...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0094par0460	I'll take it from here. I'm repeating myself.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0461	14.766 only sends 349 decisions in exchange for applications.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0094par0462	It's not a response, sir, it's an answer. You're looking in the wrong place, look straight.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0095par0463	Excuse me a minute.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0464	I repeat: 14.766 is sending 349 decisions to institutions in exchange for applications, and the statistic is here.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0094par0465	You're looking in the wrong place.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0466	This is only 2.3 per cent of the total number of complaints.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0096par0468	Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0469	Unfortunately, I regret to say that the administrations, which should have followed all of these decisions sent by the Public Control Agency, did not comply with 33.5 per cent of those decisions, which means that 33.5 per cent of the decisions sent by the Public Control Agency did not comply with those decisions. As a result, the proportion of complaints filed by the Public Control Agency -- written here -- is 1 per cent.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0097par0470	It's not that either.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0471	So, within the complaints brought to the Public Control Agency, it's only 1 per cent that's been settled. That's why I said that even the teacher gives the student who works on 1 percent of the subject zero. I'm here to inform you of the work of the institution by informing Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0097par0472	You have a problem with your answer key, so you're giving me the wrong grade.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0473	Of course, it's, as a result, an uncomfortable situation that bothers me as much as it bothers you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0098par0475	Wait a second... Let's open it up, guys.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0093par0477	Because the Public Control Agency is an institution that works for our House, not for the Justice and Development Party. So we want him to succeed here as much as you do. I've made it clear. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0479	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0100par0480	You have a request for a word? Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, when I look from here, Mr. Turkkan, I look from the same thing. Look, it's very clear that our Parliament has printed, and I'm not going far, and I think it's clear to me that in 2017, the number of applications was 17.131, but the method of reaching the solution -- turn the page right now -- the alternative on page 20 -- Mr. Free Special counted the substance, because there's no access to a single type of solution. From his applications, he gave an answer to 14.746, which led to a conclusion. If you rate it, it's about 85 percent. If necessary, we'll sit face-to-face after this is over, and if necessary, Mr. President will tell us. The number says, here's our Parliament's report, one-on-one. Now, I have something to say to Mr. Free. Now, I don't know how we got to the whole trip thing, but when they got there, this Kabadan thing came up.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0101par0487	Let's get this over with, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0488	Yeah, I'll get right on that. We need to talk about this longer. You're confusing newspaper interviews with the conversations of our President. There's a woman who's a victim, who's complaining, her statements are something else, an ongoing investigation, a judicial process, something else, interviews, arguments, something else. You have to tell the difference in terms of what's going on between these two. I've seen the footage, I've seen it. He didn't say anything like that.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0102par0490	I'll show you Friday, he said.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0491	He didn't say.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0102par0492	I'll show you Friday, he said.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0493	We'll talk about it, we'll talk more about it.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0102par0494	Should we set up a research commission, or do you want to talk about Kabataş?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0099par0495	We'll talk, we'll assess. If there's a complaint in the law, a woman... who's been talking all morning, women's rights, complaints... how the complaint mechanism works in the law. Complaints are filed, the prosecution moves forward, see what's to be done. So let's not discuss this issue anymore, let's talk about the truth, based on the perception of the news.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0102par0496	Mr. President, my name was mentioned directly.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0497	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, it's not the protocol, but...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0104par0498	Dear friends, you are aware that since we've discussed an ombudsman's report with our group's understanding, we're using a slightly different method. Mr. Turkkan, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0500	It's not a rule, but since it's come to this...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0104par0501	Let's turn on the mic...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0502	No, I can tell you from here, my brothers can hear me. There's been a serious lie scenario created there.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0105par0504	No, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0505	It's obvious, it's known, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0105par0506	What about that 14 grand?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0106par0507	You didn't answer that question.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0508	But there was one victim, one victim. You know who that is?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0105par0509	Who?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0510	He's Muezzin Fuat Hodja. They're all over him. Either he is innocent, and he is guilty of the greatest sin. I wanted to remind you of that, too. That's why I wanted to tell you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0107par0512	Isn't that 14 grand all right, Mr. Lütfü?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0103par0513	No, sir. Look, I don't know about law, but I'm a star at math, so I don't make mistakes in math.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0108par0514	Let's not talk about this anymore. More group vice presidents have talked about it than group talks. We don't really have that kind of procedure, please, please. Mr. Private, please.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0109par0517	Thank you. Mr. President, here's the truth about the Blush. In those days, when someone was talking about the 50 percent that was in the house, it was clearly intended to put that 50 percent on the street.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0110par0519	Travelers, I mean.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0109par0520	A statement was used by naked men with six leather pants with no clothes on, who attacked my veiled sister. I've watched this. Wait till Friday. I'll show it to all Turkey. The President said.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0110par0521	Interview...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0109par0522	Then two journalists said, "We've seen the images." Those reporters apologized. They can't go public for lying. They're still writing under the men's tweet. 700 Fridays have passed since the President's Friday, including the EC PARTY and Recep Tayyip Erdogan. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you're going to prove otherwise, bring in a motion to investigate the Kabataş case on Tuesday, and we'll all do it together. I'm telling you, it's a challenge. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go!
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0110par0526	Yes, let's go!
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0109par0527	You got caught up in that lie.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0111par0531	Dear friends, we have two congressmen who want to speak for themselves. Denizli MP Kazim lion. Here you go, Mr. lion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] [[Noises from AK PARTY and CHP rows]] Guys, please don't talk to me. There's no place in the Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0112par0536	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group, first and foremost on behalf of our Republican People's Party Group, following the Commission's Commission's Commission for Human Rights Review Report of the 3rd 2017. Dear lawmakers, the 12 departments of Public Control Agency Report shows that dozens of conferences and seminars have been attended, the institution has been doing specific studies, but we also find it difficult to explain what problems are solved, what point of injury is ointment. Because 17.131 applications have been made, only 1,887 of which have been resolved. We also see that there is a country in which our parliament has established meetings within a year for the spread of its right-seeking culture, but the state has been screwed up, injustice has come forward in all areas, justice has lost its independence, the judiciary has failed its duty, there has been a criminal work, there has been many unjust arrests. Dear lawmakers, you know, we see that both our basic rights and freedoms are both women's rights and their rights to be elected, including our child's rights, and many basic rights, including property rights, have been secured in our Constitutional rights, and many regulations have been made, but in light of that, the state is not run, and the political power continues to do many injustices and oppression. Of course, if human rights are not respected, if women are not respected, if the political power at a point where children are really abused, if it really supports an institution of its own, if the children continue to be entrusted to him, it is clear here that injustices and unlawfulness will continue. Dear lawmakers, the Public Control Agency is an institution that bridges the resolution of conflicts between public administrations and citizens. In order for this to be a healthy solution, in order for their work to be effective, the work needs to be done, especially by public institutions and organizations, to send the information that the public inspector wants to send to the inspector, and to allow the auditor to make a more comfortable decision at this point. While the public audit has made many recommendations for the solution to the problems of the complaint, at the point of fulfilling it, unfortunately, it remains untraceable. As long as our state does not have a legal state, as long as power does not act fair and justly to its allies, as long as it treats other politicians differently, we will always be able to see and live that such complaints, right violations, will actually continue in Turkey. For him, where there is injustice, indeed, we see that there will be a lot of such complaints, and that there will be more and more of the burden of the Public Control Agency, and that he will not be able to make these complaints on time, as it is necessary, and that he will not be able to give the answer to the complaining friends. Now, my dear friends, my dear lawmakers, we see that after the trial, the People's Control Agency can't handle it, especially at the point where the judiciary has decided that they're dependent on many points, they're biased, they've decided that the problems in prisons are being solved. We also see that there are growing complaints that people who have been wrongfully arrested, who have not been prosecuted in the time of their rights, that people are forced to serve their sentences in isolation rooms, and that the staff there are being treated differently to prisoners and prisoners. Many complaints have come to us as well. There are complaints in the field of education. You're referring to practices that will rob the citizen of his right to education. For example, you take away the rights of a citizen who wants to send his child to high school, and you say: "You will go to an İmmam-ha. You have to send your Imam-hatred child. Now, to really demonstrate such a violation of rights, not to think about the citizen, not to think about Turkey's secular republic order, to try to conduct the work of political power in an ideological way, in an ideological way, by not thinking about Turkey's secular republical order. My dear friends, we also see that as an institution that has failed to uphold the rights of those seeking the rights, and has been left behind by the bad course of action, the Society of Public Control can't truly do its job because there is a person at the head of the institution who is addicted to politics. Of course, we respect the world's view, but no matter what happens, if there is a political figure in a institution that needs to make independent and impartial decisions, such as public supervision, there is no way to make impartial decisions about events that are sometimes affected by politicians. So, first of all, I think it would be very helpful to say that the head of this institution is a person who is free of politics, who comes from within the bureaucracy, who can make fair decisions, who is well-known as a lawyer, who has an accepted identity and personality in society. My dear friends, really, the institution's budget is 20 million Turkish liras. I mean, he's got a lot of structures that can do a lot of things, but we see that he can't do a lot of things properly, he can't answer in time, and some bureaucracy doesn't respond on time, and so we see that decisions aren't made in time and in place. Therefore, the citizen will certainly and certainly appeal to the judiciary to seek his rights. If he can't get an answer from the judiciary, if he's getting late, if he's being wronged there, if he's being victimized, he's going to go to the Public Control Agency, where he's going to look for rights, and he's going to keep trying. The most important thing for him here, friends, is that it's not easy to fix these things quickly, without ever driving Turkey away from the ground of a legal state, by fulfilling judicial independence, by opening the way for the judiciary to make an impartial decision, and by dealing with the injustices that have started there while many injustices should be solved in the judiciary. For him, the judiciary needs to be independent, the Public Control Agency needs to be independent and out of politics, and when it decides, the citizen must be in a position to satisfy and please the complainant. I salute you all again, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0113par0551	Thank you. Now on behalf of himself, Istanbul MP Serap Yasar... Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0114par0554	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself regarding the 2017 Public Control Agency Report. I salute our holy nation and your high council. First of all, I am very pleased to stand before the High Assembly to discuss the Ombudsman's Agency report and its institution as an alternative way of seeking and announcing its voice. I'm a paralegal who worked at a human rights association during February 28th, 1998-2000, and served as a branch lawyer. For many years and years afterwards, individuals were either suing and seeking their rights, or they were a little desperate to apply to the Human Rights Association. In those days, as a lawyer, I was trying to get these applications and follow them up. Today, we're happy to discuss the Constitutional, legal and institutional structure of the Public Control Agency and the institution's report. Of course, I don't think it's right to say very ambitious things about human rights; there may be a lot of things to be criticised for, missing, incomplete, but what's really valuable is that this institution has achieved a constitutional structure, that it has become institutional, and that it's operating. Therefore, I am very pleased to present you with this institution and its report. In particular, at the time of the coup and postmodern coup, the diversity of rights violations in that misty, misty air was terrifying. And I'm glad that we don't have any applications today, and we don't discuss any of those things, which I know very well and I've followed up on as a lawyer. For example, there are no people who want to get into college by convincing someone to cover up because their head is open. E, we call it women's rights, women can perform all kinds of public duties regardless of their dress code. This is an indication of the development of human rights in our country, and I would like to gladly share it with you. Now, the Society of Public Control has entered the Constitution in 2010 to study, investigate, and make recommendations in accordance with the positions and actions and actions of the administration, in terms of justice based on human rights, and in 2012 with Law 6328. True and legal persons who are violated of rights and freedoms or interests as a result of the administration's actions and attitudes and behavior can apply for the institution. In addition to all individuals, companies, NGOs, associations, foundations, unions also have the right to apply. Also, foreign citizens are able to deliver their complaints, regardless of the requirements for exclusivity and reciprocity. In the case of human rights, basic rights and freedoms, women's rights, children's rights to general issues concerned with the public, all real and legal persons can also apply without the requirement for direct rights or freedom or violation of interest. Complaint applications can also be submitted by hand, e-mail and fax through the electronic application system or through the institution's Istanbul office. If the application was made by fax and e-mail, it is necessary to send the petition originals to the Institution within fifteen days, and it is possible to apply in the provinces through governorships and districts. The procedures for the use of legislation, decisions on the use of judicial authority, Turkish Armed Forces' military activities alone are out of the institution's jurisdiction. In addition, complaints that do not include a particular issue, which are seen in judicial bodies, or which are related to discrepancies that have been agreed upon by judicial bodies, are not subject to the same reasons and the same issues, and the results of previous complaints cannot be investigated by the institution. These are issues of exception to the institution's operating area. As a result of the review of complaint applications filed against the institution, the institution considers the application invalid, the decision to send it, the decision to send it, the decision to be unexamined, the decision to resolve it as a friendly solution, the decision to reject it, the decision to reject it, partly the recommendation, partly the decision to reject it, and one of the recommendations. The foundation's purpose and reason for its existence is to seek and find a friendly solution. The institution's contribution and services were properly expressed, which went into effect in March 2017, with the decision to address the institution's contributions and services in order to properly express them. Now, I'd like to give you some numbers in terms of saying that things are going well. In 2013, 548 cases were resolved in 184, 2014, 123 in 2015, 161 in 2015, and 80 in 2016. The total number of cases reached in 2017 was 1,887, with a decision to send 312 with a friendly solution of 1,575. Statistics and studies show that each year the number of friendly resolutions has increased, and this change in 2017 has been achieved on this occasion. There have been applications for different issues such as justice, national defence, security, work and social security, education, youth, sports, economics, finance and tax, tenders and procedures, disability rights, food, agriculture and animalism, human rights, women's rights, protection of the family, child rights, public staff regime, property rights, forest, water, urbanism, health care, social services, media and communication. Meetings, symposiums, studies from the day it was formed have shown that the institution is continuing to work upward, open and positive, with its regeneration and developmental structure. I want to thank Mr. Honor Malkoc and his members for their selfless efforts to promote the institution, to increase its awareness, and for their contribution to the development of the institution, for their efforts and efforts to implement the institution in universal standards. Again, I salute your grand delegation. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0115par0573	Dear friends, this concludes the meeting on the Karma Commission Report on the 2017 Public Control Agency Report. I'm making a promise to the Commissioner. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0116par0576	Mr. President, thank you very much. I just got a promise to thank you. Mr. President, valued members, as you know, the Public Control Agency submits its action report each year to the Karma Commission, which we call the Karma Commission and the Committee for Human Rights and Proclamation. In accordance with the law, the Karma Commission makes a report by adding opinions, proposals and examinations, and, again, by law, makes it urgent to meet with the General Assembly. In recent years, as my esteemed President said, due to the busy agenda of the Assembly General Assembly, unfortunately, he was unable to discuss the time of the reports. A report from 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 was discussed in a single report by the General Assembly at the time when I was head of the Karma Commission. Although the 2016 report had been written, the decision had been made earlier, but the General Assembly did not discuss it during the 26th term. The meeting of the 2017 report was held on the Karma Commission in the early days when the General Assembly opened, and was followed by me to take it on the General Assembly agenda. I'd like to thank the members of each party that supports us in the process, especially for providing this meeting today. I'd also like to thank the President of the Public Control Agency and our fellow inspectors who have provided us with the commission's report for the duration. We see that their activities are becoming more efficient and more efficient every day. These are in detail in our report. I would also like to thank Mr. President, who is running our General Assembly today and Mr. President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the agenda. My respects to all of you. Good evening.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0117par0582	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0118par0583	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0117par0584	Dear Islam...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0118par0585	I actually wanted a minute's promise, but today, I guess, because of the Civil Code, that's not possible. In a sentence...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0117par0586	I'll give you my word on your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0118par0590	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wish you were here yesterday. In fact, there was a legal murder here yesterday, and I'm going to report him to your office later. Now, as for today's matter, I've been looking all morning, and the groom's father-in-law is being complained or there's a groom's vehicle at work and so on and so on. Mr. Malkoc and our Minister of Justice are a very good example of father-in-law in public. He's a friend, he's a friend, he's like a father-son, we know that, but that's where the real problem is, a relationship like this is getting into government administration.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0119par0593	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0120par0594	Where did this come from, Mr. President, is there such a procedure?
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0121par0595	Wait a minute, guys...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0596	Now, look at it ethically. The Ombudsman and the Justice Department will occasionally fall into the ranks...
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0121par0598	One minute is up, Mr. Islam.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0599	I'd like to finish this for a moment.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0123par0600	Give it to me, Mr. President. Let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0124par0601	It wasn't intentional, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0602	I need another minute.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0125par0603	All right, finish it.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0604	To complete it, I won't say another word. We really envy this relationship, but the problem is that it's moving into public relations, friends, listen to it calmly. And I'm wondering, how are they going to solve a complaint about the Justice Department? Places are permanent, individuals are variable. So, I'm just suggesting that one of them should quit his post and take another assignment in the name of ethical principles, and that's all I've got. It's the only way we can stop nepotism, nephewism, cousinism, nepotism, advocacy. Thank you very much for your promise, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0126par0608	Mr. Islam, there are provisions on these matters.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0122par0609	I said ethics, Mr. President, ethics.
tbmm-2018-11-01sit01spe0126par0610	There's no ethics, there's no law, there's no ethics. Dear friends, it is 15 a.m. on Tuesday, November 6, 2018, to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, with law proposals. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
