tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0001par0001	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Unable to open microphone due to technical malfunction]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[The microphone is off, they can't be heard.]] Can you hear me? [[Yes, they are.]] Members of parliament, no one will lower the voice of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0002par0009	There's no more council, no more voices!
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0001par0010	Members of parliament, I am opening the First Unification of the Second Legislature of the 27th Legislature of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting, now we're on the agenda. Congressmans, we, representatives of the national will, have begun a new era of legislation under this great roof. I wish our new era of life to be a blessing, and I salute you all with love and conversation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I pray that the work we do in the new year of life, the decisions we make, the laws we make, is good for our nation, our country, and all our brothers who live in our heart geography. After the June 24th elections, I sincerely believe that Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which was renewed, would work with determination, excitement, faith, and ideals ninety-eight years ago. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a concrete expression of our nation's unity, brotherhood, solidarity, has always been the door to a solution. In our parliament, the opinion of the people is free, free of conscience, free of knowledge. Under this roof of democracy's heart, all matters will be discussed. There will not only be problems, but also solutions. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a 142-year tradition from Legality until today. The Supreme Assembly, which was named as a veteran of the War of Istlikal, is also the founder of the Republic of Turkey. The first quarter of the 20th century was the most difficult years of the Turkish nation. In those years, which resembled a great flood of flames, he struggled to survive for ten years from 1912 to 1922. Our apocalypse has never used fatigue or absence as an excuse. He stood up to the whole world against the invasion and the invasion and re-established the Turkish nation as the subject of history. Our Heroic Assembly has made good decisions in the most difficult days of our Imperial War. As the sound of cannon cannons thrown from Poland echoed in Ankara, this Parliament spoke of the nation's sovereignty, its future. Don't be afraid of the late Mehmet Akif! Sonmez was a member of this great Assembly when he wrote our last Istiklal anthem, which began with the last of its lines on my land, which floated at these dawns. The government is an unconditional nation. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has never strayed from its command, has been subjected to attacks from time to time, impact, coup attempt, credit. The most humiliating of these attacks, which targeted parliament, which claimed national will, was on July 15th. Traitors who led the country into chaos, who wanted to invade our homeland, took action in the evening hours of that day with tanks, helicopters, planes, and heavy weapons. Our Veteran Assembly stood tall that night in the face of the attacks of these traitors who have infiltrated our government's institutions. With the bombs that flew over him with supersonic explosions, our members of the General Assembly raised the voice of a great terror and courageous sovereignty of the holy nation that night. That night, our government became one body and resisted the coup. All those who love our country, their country, their nation, their flag, our country and their sovereignty, especially our beloved nation, our President, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our government, our country, our nation, our country. That night, 251 brothers and sisters were martyrs, thousands of brothers were wounded, veterans. May God have mercy on all our martyrs, peace be upon their souls, and peace be upon them. And I wish our Veterans a good, long life. Congressmans, our House will continue to claim our democracy with faith and confidence that it has served in the most difficult years of our state and nation. We take our power from the nation. Any attack on our nation, our state, our democracy will then find this great Assembly against him. Because we swore on our honor and honor under this roof that we would work for the existence of our state, independence, the indivisible integrity of the nation. We argue from time to time, there will surely be issues that we cannot agree on, and the main thing is to negotiate and show opinions and finally find the truth, which is the necessity of pluralistic democracy. But we can never disagree in our national affairs. This Veteran Parliament has once again demonstrated its national stance in an external-source attack on our country's economy through the latest draft. We'll talk about everything until we decide, we'll discuss different ideas, but once we've made up our minds, we'll be one punch like an ankle-tied fingers. Hopefully, as long as the sky doesn't fall on top, we'll get a symbol of our freedom, our independence, our flag will continue to fluctuate in the heavens, the mighty Turkish nation will always be a shareholder. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Congressmans, our dear nation has been very careful to monitor our activities under this roof. Our work here is important to ensure Turkey's future. We see an unequal world order where the rule of law of the strong is becoming more and more common. Turkey is objecting to this order and continuing to defend the rights of the oppressed, the innocent, because we are the children of a nation that has a promise to be said to the world. When we work here, we can't ignore the millions of people of our heart geography, who depend on us in and out of our borders. Members of parliament, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has adopted a very dynamic method of working since the day it began working to ensure our independence. The first period began on April 23, 1920, and began its work in 11 separate periods until the time of the May 27, 1960 coup. The work was interrupted by a construction of the Armed Forces on May 27, 1960. Following the elections held on October 15, 1961, parliamentary work began again, but as of this time, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey continued its work under the name of the National Assembly of Turkey. The National Assembly continued its work until 12 September 1980, which began on October 25, 1961. During this period, the National Assembly and the Republic Senate worked in the same building, and they did some combinations together. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which re-involved in the elections held on 6 November 1983, has at times attempted to intervene, but thus far its mandate has been uninterrupted. From April 23, 1920 to today, the General Assembly has combined 10,986 in 90 years. At the same time, the residency commissions carried out their legislative duties, our research investigation commissions, their audit duties, and our international commissions, along with our friendship groups, served as parliamentary democracy and representation. Dear MPs, as you know, the First Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the 1921 Constitution, then 1924, 1961, 1982 Constitutions were drafted and implemented. These Constitutions need to change from time to time. The final and radical amendment to the Constitution of 1982 was submitted to public approval on April 16, 2017. Turkey has moved to a new system, with elections held on June 24th to implement the changed provisions of our constitution and renew national will. The new system is called the presidential government system. The first President of the new system is Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. As the first lawmakers of the new system, we will continue our work on legislation, auditing in accordance with the spirit of the system in the Turkish Grand National Assembly. In the new era, the coherence of legislatures and executive organs will help us facilitate the solution to the problems we face inside and outside. As Ibn Haldun said, geography is destiny. We too live in a difficult geography. From time to time, we face geopolitical, geostrategic issues and have to face them. We know that there have been some global problems in our economy lately. Our country has faced similar challenges in the past and has been able to overcome them successfully. And this time, with national solidarity, I believe we will soon overcome these and similar problems. Our Grand Assembly will carry out its role in this matter in the best possible way, and will continue to support the needs of our nation's rights and interests. Meanwhile, as elected lawmakers of our beloved nation, we will continue our mission to represent our country in the best possible way. To protect Turkey's interests, to express its views, we will take every international platform as effectively as possible. Protecting our country's reputation in the eyes of international institutions, especially the European Parliament, will be one of our primary duties. In this framework, we host an important meeting in Antalya on October 8-11. At this meeting, where we assume the presidency, we will discuss regional problems, global problems, at this important multilateral meeting, attended by parliament heads of the Eurasian countries and regional and international organisations. More than 40 countries, including 26 parliamentary speakers, vice-presidents and others, will be present at around 600 participants. Dear lawmakers, the number of lawmakers in this legislature, where national will is represented at the highest level, has been 600, and since four of our friends left due to the execution, the number has been reduced to 596, and 104 women have served in this legislature. This means that women's representation of the 27th-century legislature has increased the percentage of our women's deputies by 25 percent. (AK PARTY) I sincerely believe that future women's deputies in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will grow in a more competitive way with the number of voters.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0003par0033	Layla Trust is missing, one person is missing.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0001par0034	In the meantime, due to our growing number of MPs, the need has arisen both in our General Assembly Hall and in our Public Relations Building. Therefore, the work launched after the June 24th elections continued for one summer, and the needs of commission halls and parliamentary office offices were completed before the start of the year of legislature. The fact that the new system has been strengthened in accordance with the spirit of parliament and that it will also be passed through a strong parliamentary profile is evident that lawmaking will literally be made by lawmakers' proposals. In this regard, of course, we have strengthened our legislature infrastructure as Parliamentary President, in order for the full, orderly preparation of the proposals our lawmakers will make. Congressmans, we have a lot of work to do in the 27th term. Our new Constitution gives more responsibility to party groups and MPs. There will be no more legislation from the government outside the budget law. The proposals of the law will be prepared here, under this great roof. In the process of drafting law proposals and coming to the General Assembly, our party groups and commissions, no doubt, are taking on a great deal of work. We're going to need a thorough preparation for the proposals to be made. With these thoughts, I ask God's mercy to all the states elders who served for our state and nation, especially our first President, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, who emigrated to the Beka world, and to honor and speak to our surviving elders. As we fight against the separatist terror organizations that threaten our national existence, I ask God's mercy for all our martyrs, the police, the gendarmes, the temporary security guard and all our martyrs, and I wish our heroic veterans a healthy long life. Once again, I express my faith that we will have an effective and productive year of life. I wish you all the blessings of our work under this blessed roof. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Members of parliament, to make the opening statement for the new year of legislature, Mr. President, the General Assembly Hall is now in session. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) I welcome them, and now I invite you to the Istiklal Anthem. [[Identical March]] I would like to call our President to the stand to speak. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0004par0045	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the opening of the 27th Year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I salute you with my deepest feelings. From April 23, 1920, I respectfully recall all of our MPs who served under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The first president of our parliament, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the commander-in-chief of our Liberation War, is the first to bless those members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including the Grand National Assembly. In this geography for a thousand years, I pray for the mercy of all the martyrs who have sacrificed their lives for the sake of our nation, and of all those who have appealed to our veterans. I salute our veterans from here as well as the relatives of our martyrs in the recent fight against terrorism and on the 15th of July. In and out of our borders, one nation, one flag, one country, one nation, I give thanks to each and every one of our braves who fought heroically for the cause of one state. I wish our great House, honored twice by its title as a veteran, and you, our esteemed lawmakers, well done in the year of the new legislature. Honourable MPs, Turkey witnessed a historic public vote on April 16th, and again a historic presidential and parliamentary election on June 24th. April 16th, the public vote is the name of a great reform, a great revolution that we've changed our management system. A transformation of this scale, many countries and peoples, have only been able to complete by experiencing great turmoil and paying enormous costs. As for us, as Turkey, as a Turkish nation, we have successfully achieved this significant change in the rules of democracy. Not as a product of political engineering accounts, but in the course of our history itself, we have all lived together in the stages of a process developed by the will and consent of our people. Basically, there is a history in our country of efforts to reform governance that is approaching 200 years. During the Ottoman period, many trials were made by Tanzimat (Islahat) from Islahat (Islahat). After our invasion war, this quest continued after we chose to side with the republic. We tried one-party, then multiple-party regimes. Unfortunately, no matter what we did, we couldn't stop the blows, the custody, the crises. These quests have continued recently. The 2007 presidential election crisis has now made a new reform, a new change inevitable. The door to work to overcome this crisis has been opened to a new management system. Since 2007, our nation has acted with common sense and fear at every step of the process. In this critical period, we didn't give the opportunity to derail our country, to lead it into chaos, to fail inside and out, praise be to God. The traps that have been set frequently since the past and have caused Turkey to stumble at every turn have not worked this time. With the unity and unity of our nation, with the solidarity of all the men of our state, we have come to this day, overcoming all obstacles. Every move to corner Turkey has been met with greater breakthroughs as a country. In any case and under the circumstances, we sought the cure in our nation, in our democracy, in the highest power of national will. They wanted to push our country into the custody swamp, and we found the solution to our nation. They tried to surround our country internationally, and we moved on by taking our power from our nation. They tried to stir up the streets and turn our people against each other. They used terrorist organizations to bring our country to its knees, and we didn't appreciate it. We've crushed all their heads from PKK to DEAŞ and their heads. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] They attempted a coup, and with our nation, we shielded our chests against the barrels and claimed our future and our future. They tried to build a hall of terror across our borders, and we destroyed this plan with our actions, one after the other. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] They tried to destroy our economy in the middle of the night, and by God's permission, we're on our way to overcome this attack. There's never been a problem we haven't been able to deal with when we've acted with our nation. Hopefully, from now on, we'll continue to do the same. Dear friends, the presidential government has strengthened our democracy by determining more clearly the roles of the government system, legislation, executive and judicial bodies. The President is the only one who's talking to our nation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] All custody mechanisms within the system, which stands in the way of national will, are now gone. Thus, our nation knows who it gives power to and who it will answer to when it is necessary. In the June 24th elections, we are eager to fulfill our duties to the nation who elected me President. We've appointed our ministers and established our cabinet. Through the presidential decrees and presidential decrees issued under the powers vested in us by the Constitution and the law, we are doing a quick and effective action, as promised to our nation. Of course, as with any transitional period, there may be some difficulties in the process. Every trouble we detect, we intervene immediately and put it right. However, the surge that we never deserved in the economy and certainly did not reflect the true state of our country is making such problems more conspicuous. With the measures we've taken, the talks we've had, and the programs we've developed, we've begun to restore balance to our economy. According to feedback from our nations and institutions, we are both reviewing our work and setting new goals for ourselves. Like none of our political lives, I never thought we were worthy of the new management system. Every step we take to take from our nation, we act with the awareness that we have to answer to our nation again. Since November 2002, we had a great debt of loyalty to our nation, which had entrusted us with the rule of our country, and on July 15th, the debt of loyalty to our nation was added to our debt of life. We work day and night to be worthy of our nation's trust, gratitude, and support. We're already running things at the level of presidential decree and decision-making, but some issues require legal regulation. As you know, in the new administration system, the President has no way of offering law or bill to parliament outside the budget. The law can only come to the House with your proposals. With the opening of our parliament, I believe our lawmakers, both members of the EC PARTY Group and other parties, will serve our country with law proposals. Our friends in the AK PARTY group will undoubtedly contribute more to legislation by offering laws in areas we need to conduct. We also expect lawmakers from other parties to support us as the executive body, to open our way. Only if we work together, shoulder to shoulder can we overcome the challenges facing Turkey. The spirit of the new era requires working together, building together, working together. Let's bring Turkey to its destination together. Let's strengthen our democracy together. Let's raise our economy together. Let's serve our nation together. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'd like to thank you all for your efforts in this direction. Dear friends, Turkey is on its way to becoming a global force with its democracy and economy in the most turbulent region in the world. The acts of terror that feed on the security crises and human tragedies around us have not driven our country away from its goals, on the contrary, has strengthened its determination to do so even more. Terror organizations that have won serious activities in Iraq and Syria are losing positions every day. Although these countries have had difficulty maintaining their own internal stability, the conditions for the growth of terrorist organisations have largely disappeared. The chaotic independence of the regional administration in northern Iraq has also been annulled by Turkey's clear stance. Iraq has survived a great deal of trouble, as central government dominates the lands occupied by the DEAS. Our wish is to eliminate PKK presence in the country in the same way. As Turkey, we have controlled an important part of the PKK's activities in Iraq. Our goal is to wipe out the Kandil, which we consider a boil, and the Sincar, which is on its way to becoming the new Kandil, from the separatist terrorist organization. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We want Iraq to be a safe, peaceful, stable and prosperous country for its people and the entire region, as soon as we get rid of the religious disease. We will continue to support all the work that is being done in this direction, and we will continue to pioneer when necessary. Unfortunately, the situation in Syria is much more painful, much more severe. This country is in the grip of a civil war that left its 7th year behind. Some 1 million Syrian brothers and sisters have lost their lives and 12 million Syrians have had to leave their homes. As if the regime's bloody attacks against its own people were not enough, the low-down organizations, DEAS and PYD-YPGs, have haunted the Syrian people. The forces that know about instability in the country have entered the race to divide Syria through power of attorney wars. Some are trying to implement their own projects at the expense of the blood and tears of the Syrian people, who are now engaged in a regime with no grounds for legitimacy. For many reasons, we could not stand by and watch these developments in Syria. First of all, we have over a thousand years of common history with these geography people, common civilization and cultural values. To that end, we opened our doors and hearts to millions of Syrians who had to flee from their homes to save their lives. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] 3.5 million still live in our Syrian country. Every conflict within Syria is a harbinger of new mass migration waves for us. The chaos near our borders has become the most important feeding ground for terrorist threats against our country. In order to prevent this dangerous journey, we have taken action from 2016 to create safe zones within Syria. With the Firat Shield and Operation Olive branch, we've cleared a 4,000-square-mile area of terrorists from DEASH and NYD-YPG. 260,000 Syrian brothers have returned to these regions so far. On every platform, we tried to find a solution in the country that all the Syrian people could accept. We pioneered the creation of a new solution in Astana on the obstruction of the Geneva process. Russia and I have begun our search on the violation of the regime of the agreements reached in Astana. Our efforts have finally come to fruition. In Sochi, Russia and Idlip signed an agreement that directly concerned the lives of 3.5 million people in the conflict zone. This agreement, which has been widely appreciated in the world, has also brought hope to a solution based on a new constitution and free elections in Syria. Thus, Turkey has become a country that has taken direct initiative and spoken directly in the Syrian crisis, where it has suffered its greatest burden. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Over 60,000 Syrians have already returned to the region where he guaranteed to ensure the safety of our country. As we expand the areas that we have secured in Syria, as we maintain peace, I believe that our guests in our country will return to their territory to speed. Our next goal is to ensure that the areas east of Münbic and Fırat are cleared of the terrorist organization that occupied this area. Hopefully, we'll get to that as soon as possible. Dear friends, like any state, Turkey can have ups and downs in its relations with some countries and international institutions. As it is known, in recent years, we have experienced tensions with the European Union and with some European states for failing to fulfill their various promises to our country and for coming at us with unjust accusations. Of course, we could not remain silent in the face of injustices and double standards against our country during the European Union's full accession process. Some European countries have turned anti-Turkey into a domestic policy material that has caused problems to deepen and spread. Little by little, we are putting this troubled process with Europe behind us. Turkey's continued commitment to the European Union, particularly to prevent irregular migration, has strengthened our hand. When the accusations and attitudes against our country were no longer at home, the intellectual triumphs and the pathways of dialogue began to reopen. It is absolutely impossible for us to turn our backs on such geography as our greatest trade partner, about 5 million Turkish-rooted brothers, millions of our sincere friends. However, we will fight to the end to correct the injustices that Europe has done to us and to uphold the law of our brothers there. Last week's visit to Germany was a mutual confirmation of our will to move our relations to a new and positive direction. In the past few months, we also agreed on a visit to England to strengthen our co-operation. Positive voices from various European countries about relations with Turkey are a harbinger of the coming light days. Hopefully, in the new era, we will enter a process in which we have really distanced ourselves from Europe in political, economic, and human areas. Another important problem is our relationship with America. We are deeply saddened by the fact that the current administration in the United States, which we have a long history as strategic partners, aims at our country in a way that has no logical, political and strategic consistency. The leader and many members of the terrorist organization who attempted a coup in our country are protected and protected by this country. In Syria, the United States, which collaborated with the separatist terrorist organization, disregarding our sensitivities and warnings, has also carried this negative attitude into the economic field. For example, the Halkbank case is an unprecedented example of lawlessness. We're determined to fight within the borders of diplomacy and law, with this twisted understanding, which is attempting to impose sanctions on our country, using a priest who's being tried for his dark relations with terrorist organizations. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It is our primary duty to protect the rights, the law and honor of our country and our nation, against this mentality that sees Turkey not as a democratic law state, but as a tribal community. I believe the American government will eventually correct the wrong view of our country. The mutual interest of our countries requires that our relationship continue, not in a so-called strategic partnership, but in a central strategic partnership. Last week, before the United Nations meeting in New York, and during the meetings, we met with representatives of U.S. companies and shared our views on this matter with them. In addition, all of our relevant friends communicate our views in contact with American contacts. Even though it hasn't reached the level we'd hoped for yet, we can say that we're beginning to make progress in reaching a common understanding. Hopefully, we hope to resolve matters between us as soon as possible and develop relations with America in the spirit of strategic and economic partnership in political and economic areas again. In New York, we also met with 14 leaders in three days to assess the relations between our countries and the common problems of mankind. In our talk at the General Assembly, we shared our views on the structure and functioning of the United Nations, particularly our objection, and on regional and global developments. Dear friends, Russia and I are in tight, fast-growing relationships with each area. From Syrian policy to tourism, from defence industry to energy, we are implementing projects in the common interest of Russia and our countries. You know, at one point, there were many provocations to disrupt our relationship with Russia. We have dealt with these challenges, mutually dealing with common sense and coolness. Hopefully, in the coming period, we will strengthen the climate of our positive cooperation with Russia. Similarly, we are in close contact with Iran on other political and economic issues, both in Syria and Iraq. In decisions related to the future of the region, we take special interest in Iran's absence. We don't think the threat of sanctions against this country is fair either. Problems that can easily be solved by the controls of international institutions are never right to try to be dealt with in ways that would mean punishment for the people of all the countries, such as sanctions. It's also consistent with past experiences where such steps do not benefit at all. In the coming period, Turkey will decide its policies by centralizing its own interests and needs, rather than the demands of others, in accordance with our basic principles. Another key problem for our country is the approach in the Eastern Mediterranean that ignores Turkey's rights, interests, expectations, and the rights of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. I'd like to repeat from here once again that no step can be taken despite Turkey in Cyprus and the Aegean. Those who try to ignore us in this area should know that they're endangering their own existence altogether. Our preference for Cyprus and the Aegean, as in everything, favours the sense of win-win. When there are ways we can all win together, those who seek out ways that lead to crisis and even conflict will first pay for it to their own people. We are pleased that last year the crisis in the Gulf, which has caused the world to worry, has been settled without any unwanted results. Our close cooperation with Qatar has been further riveted by this country's decision to invest a great deal in our country. We want to strengthen our cooperation with other states in the region. We expect some countries in the region to end their hostility towards Turkey as soon as possible. We hope to make significant progress in these matters in the coming period. North Africa's stability is closely linked to the future of both the Middle East and Africa. As Turkey, we will continue to be with our North African brothers, especially Libya, to give them all the support. Our relations with the countries of Central Asia are growing more and more. The Summit of the Turkish Council, which we attended in Kyrgyztan, and which Uzbekistan for the first time participated, was an important opening in this regard. Our relations with Azerbaijan have come to a really good point in political, economic, and social life. We see Kazakhstan making significant moves under the firm leadership of Mr. Nazarbayev, whom I consider a failure to the Turkish world. Uzbekistan is on the verge of a new and great breakthrough. We also value the stability and development of Turkmenistan. The more powerful and prosperous our brothers and sisters in Central Asia are, the happier and benefiting Turkey. Likewise, Turkey's power and wealth are an important guarantee for our brothers and sisters in Central Asia. We strive to establish close relations in the Balkans, such as Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, Albania, Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro. Of course, Bosnia and Herzegovina has a separate place in our nation's heart, both historically and humanly. We consider it our duty to stand by our brothers in Bosniak, who have suffered a great deal in the past, to claim the will of the late Aliya Izetbegovic. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We have a strong will to continue our good neighbourly relations with Greece and Bulgaria as long as we see a response from these countries. We also investigate our economic and social relations with our eastern neighbour, Georgia, with our political relations. We continue to fight for the peace and peace of our Crimean brothers. As I've always said, the matter of Jerusalem is the red line of our nation and ours. (AC PARTY) We will not tolerate any action, any command, which will mean attacking the fundamental rights and freedoms of our Palestinian brothers, which have taken place in Jerusalem's privacy. As Turkey, we will follow the Jerusalem case to the end. As you can see, we are preparing our country for its bright future by conducting very important international processes simultaneously, with the same precision and with the same determination. Dear friends, as Prime Minister and President of our country, the economy has always been a matter of special importance to us. While Turkey was growing and enriching 3.5 times, we made every part of our nation benefit from it. As a country that works, invests, produces, exports, employs, we have set up a whole new development model. For the past five years, our country has been through some very big, very important, very historic events. This period of uninterrupted struggle that we've been through has shown us once again that we need to be stronger. By making great sacrifices, by showing great courage when necessary, our nation's support for this struggle indicates that the issue is understood by all. In the process, infertile thinkers, irresponsible ones, victims of their ambitions, and those who pursue their own souls have been purged by our people, and those who support the struggle have been held over our nation regardless of other differences. The delicate period that we've been through in the economy has become a much bigger test for everyone, a much bigger example of dissolution. We know best what the reforms Turkey needs for the economy, but it is clear that the events that we've been experiencing for some time and the rise in the wolf have nothing to do with our country's economic realities, its shortcomings. The American government has taken this wrong path by trying to solve our political and legal problems in a language of threat and blackmail rather than dialogue. This supposedly aims to make us pay, in fact, the greatest damage is to America in the middle and long term. The United States, which is engaged in a trade war with many countries, including China and the European Union, has lost its credibility with its extra applications for Turkey.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0005par0110	Why did you hand over the economy to the United States?
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0004par0111	After what we have experienced, it is no longer possible for any country in the world to look to the future of their relationship with America. The Turkish economy is too strong to be destroyed by such threats and attacks. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The uncertainty caused by the rise in the wolf is gradually fading away. We're not making the slightest concession from budget discipline. We're taking steps one by one to strengthen our country's outlook on international markets. Turkey is not demanding money from anyone. All we're trying to do is get international capital to invest in our country. We give you all the support you need for this, all the assurances. We are carefully implementing the balances of our economy, programs to investigate every area from finance to investment. The new economic programme is one of the most important steps. We are well aware of the problems our industrialist, our merchant, our tradesman, our artist, our agricultural sector, our paid cut, and our current nation. We are closely monitoring the lives of all those who are overwhelmed by interest, inflation, exchange rate, all those who are forced to turn their jobs. We are also aware of the importance and urgency of chain problems caused by the recession of the banking sector's movement. We have our preparations, our efforts to solve all these problems. We will not abandon any of our industrialists, any of our merchants, any of our employees, any of our citizens, to the mercy of those who have no conscience or morality, to those who come out in good times and go missing in bad times. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We'll take every precaution necessary without compromising the rules of the free market economy. We've prepared a new economic programme based on balancing, discipline and change. We are determined to re-enhancing Turkey with an economic understanding that will expand and facilitate loan opportunities, encourage investments, prioritize production, employment and exports. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I want him to be a little more patient than our nation, to trust his country and his administration. We've put the worst behind us, and hopefully things will be easier from now on. Just as we've been through every ordeal with our nation, arm in arm, shoulder in shoulder, we'll leave the present as well. On this long and difficult journey we're on, we'll find success together, along with our coven, who will march along with our valued deputies, who will fight the battle together. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] It will be our country's greatest achievement in the new era when our Parliament works with a new understanding. If necessary, it is very, very important for both our democracy and our nation's morale to improve the effectiveness and reputation of our Parliament by changing the Constitution, if necessary. I'm counting on you, my fellow congressman. Once again, the second year of the 27th century wishes God that the year of the Second Legislature be a blessing, and I give you all my love and respect. Peace be with you.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit01spe0006par0127	We thank Mr. President for his speech. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-10-01sit02spe0007par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 1st Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Mr. Kadir Enis Berberoglu, MP of İstanbul, I would like to call you to the stand for an oath. Here you go, Mr. Berberoglu. [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] [[İstanbul MP Kadir Enis Berberoğlu has taken an oath]] [[Applause from CHP, HDP and GOOD PARTY]] Congressmans, since today's agenda has no further agenda, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (October 2nd 2018) to discuss business in order on our agenda. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
