tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. We're starting negotiations. I wish you a happy and successful week of work, to all political parties, to all our fellow congressmans. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Mehmet Erdoğan, a member of parliament who wants to speak on behalf of Traffic Week. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0002par0013	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book agreement on Traffic Week. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the holy Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens with respect and conversation. Dear lawmakers still hold an important place in our country, even though the loss of lives and goods related to traffic accidents has fallen in comparison to the past years. Unfortunately, because of the very simple mistakes, there are many accidents, fires falling on the stoves, casualties. On the other hand, the number of accidents and the number of vehicles in traffic is constantly increasing. While our responsible units in our police headquarters have signed off on a number of successful traffic safety studies, accidents are still the biggest indication that there is a shortage somewhere. Traffic safety isn't just about life and property safety, it's actually about looking at traffic as a culture and thinking. In this frame, it must be ensured that he does not get drunk and behind the wheel, and we must now place it in our culture. Driving while tired and sleepless is harmful to ourselves and to others; it should become part of our culture, and no one should be able to drive tired and sleepless. We definitely need to look at the seatbelt as part of our culture, not as a rule anymore. We need to take care of our vehicles. We also need to follow the direction of our fellow traffic police officers who are in charge of inspections. However, above all, awareness should be more important. For example, in order to facilitate the flow of traffic, the practice of the clever intersection, which is designed to reduce accidents, appears as an important example. Our roads, our municipalities, are making smart intersections, but our citizens are not informed of how to use these intersections; new drivers are told of these clever intersections, but those who have been driving for years do not know how to use them. On the other hand, I went from this city to this city at such an hour. It's important to see that at this speed, it's not to get to a city, it's to get to the people we love, it's to see that it speeds up the recovery of death. We said driving and traveling in traffic are a culture, but we regret to see that even at the foot crossing near the Chankaya Gate of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, no one respects the superiority of foot crossing. Although city traffic must be designed according to pedestrians, this consciousness in our country is unfortunately still unsettled. Traffic stops once we're on foot in all modern countries, but when we step on foot, the drivers get a little faster. The impatient, hasty, dangerous, and disrespectful attitude we face in traffic is not just something that can be eliminated by inspection. To do that, you have to create a consciousness, give a better traffic education, do more public-spot work. In fact, it's not like we're teaching traffic training starting from elementary school, we really should. Driving in traffic in accordance with the rules is a factor that significantly reduces loss of life and property. When we look at the aviation industry today, compared to the number of flights, we see that there was almost no accident or very little. That's only because you follow the rules. It is also a fact that we will come to the same conclusion on the way to land when we follow the rules. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to share with you one of the issues we encountered on the interstate that we consider to be a major flaw. The lack of electronic monitoring systems to detect vehicles from the safety lane is a major flaw. The Electronic Control System maintains very important security records both in and out of cities and at average speed detection. In this regard, the absence of registration of vehicles from the security lane is a major flaw. I don't want to pass through on Traffic Week without paying my respects to our traffic cops who are doing one of the hardest jobs of the Police Department. Our traffic police have made direct contact with our citizens as part of their mission, and in part as part of their control activities, sometimes they make a great effort to ensure the safety of our citizens, even though they are no match for Jesus (Jesus) or Moses (Moses). As soon as possible, all of our traffic police officers must be brought to the level they deserve. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs will be held on June 24, 2018... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish my sentence?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0003par0026	Mr. Erdogan, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0002par0027	...that the presidential and parliamentary elections will lead to good deeds for the beloved Turkish nation, our state and our democracy, which I hereby salute your grand delegation again. With all due respect, we wish to meet in many, many years without incident.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0003par0029	Thank you. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Bursa MP Ceyhun İrgil (Irkil) who wants to speak about education problems. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0004par0034	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, dear friends; when Eichmann was arrested in Argentina in 1960, he was brought to Israel and looked at him as a normal, normal, average person responsible for the deaths of 2 million people, and as he explained them, he said: "I have taken orders from authority, I am a servant of the law, I am an officer, I have obeyed." After that, a philosopher who followed this process published a study and research on the ordinaryness of evil. After him, a very famous experiment called the "Milgram Experiment" was organized at Yale University. ▪ How bad can ordinary people be, and how long can ordinary people accompany this evil? At first, their expectations were like 23%. One day they saw that 60 percent of society -- this ordinary evil, this ordinaryness of evil -- were commanded only from above, what should I do, that I was not in charge, but in authority. They saw that they could do evil to people. That was the psychology of the Nazi system in World War II. As a matter of fact, Stanley Milgram later published the famous book "Obeying Authority" and said in that book: "The conduct of men is not determined by their characters, but by the status quo and attitudes they are in, but by the postures they are in. Why did I tell you that now? Friends, for the past two years, there have been serious sacrifices and difficulties in this country, especially in the field of education. I'd like to tell you a few comparisons. During the time of the State of Emergency, the number of detentions in your state of Emergency was 154,000, 600 thousand on September 12th; the number of arrests increased to over 50,000; the number of exports increased to 123,000 on September 12th; the number of people being discharged was 123,000 on September 12th; the number of people being processed was 230 thousand on September 12th, in this period, 169,000 in this short period. You called for a return call to the dorm, you called for 99 people to return to the dorm, September 12, 29,000 people to do it. The closed media company was closed during your time, 160 in the State of Emergency, 927 on September 12. The number of associations you closed is 1,711. Officer relieved, petty officer number 7,267; 2,000 men on September 12th. The number of teachers suspended and processed is 60,500, and on September 12th, that number is only 3,800. The number of academics removed from office and unemployed in your term is 8,000 in these two years, 120 in September 12th. The number of prosecutors removed from office is 4,200, 47 in the fascist junta in the coup d'état of September 12th. The number of journalists arrested was 43 in your period of September 12th, when you accused them of fascistism. In this period, suicides are now more than 60 ▪ this week - 43 people in the entire period of September 12th. Friends, the number of canceled passports and unscheduled passports was 140 grand during this period. There are now talks of 30,000s, 40,000s for the number of arrested students. Friends, you have a great deal to do with the legitimacy of a very serious evil, and the resilience of this evil, and the bodying of it. You've all raised your hand against these laws, these motions, even though you all know them. One day, you'll all be ashamed of it. Ten years later, most of you will say, "I was not from the AK PARTY." You will say, "I was actually an outcast in those days." Because these people will come one day, and they'll ask you to answer for them. I'd like to read you a little something from a young doctor's letter this morning. Use it with logic and conscience. This boy graduated in 2017, after July 15, and you appointed this child, in a state hospital -- I don't say his name, because I'm afraid you'll do something to him -- he's currently a civil servant as a practitioner, and this boy is taking the Medical Exam, he's studying me at night, he's studying me. He says, and he's winning cardiology. You sent this boy a letter last week saying that your security investigation is inappropriate, that you can't work in cardiology. Guys, is there such a discrepancy? He's already a civil servant, he works. Why are you stopping him from majoring in cardiology? We have a thousand unscheduled doctors like this. Please, come, this conscience... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I finish this, Mayor?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0005par0041	Complete, please, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0004par0042	Mr. President, since I'm not running again, promise me as much as possible.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0005par0043	Come in, come in... please...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0004par0044	So, since I'm not running again, give me your blessing, folks.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0005par0045	You never know, it's a matter of luck.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0004par0046	Yeah, what's up? Time's up. Friends, the last thing I ask of you is that there is a very serious environment of evil and unlawfulness and remorse. I'm sure you're all good people, but we need to see these, we need to hear these people's voices. I call upon you to be a little conscientious, to listen to the law, to these fellow doctors, to these students, to the students, to the children who have been stripped of their right to education, to the people who have been acquitted by a court order, but who have not been reinstated. All due respect, and if we're wrong, I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0006par0050	Thank you, Mr. Irgil. Let's hope for the best. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Istanbul MP Hasan Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0056	Mr. President, from April 27th to April 30th, I have taken an off-the-book promise of a visit to Palestine, along with Mr. Ahmet Aydın, deputy speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. I hereby salute the entire General Assembly and our beloved nation. In honor of the opening of the Palestinian National Assembly, our Parliamentary Speaker, Mr. Ahmet Aydın and the President of the Palestinian Friendship Group, I, together, visited Palestine. We have delivered the most heartfelt greetings of our parliament and our nation to the representatives of the Palestinian people, particularly the Palestinian people. At a meeting of members of the National Assembly, as well as many national and international faces, we echoed our country's strongest support for the Palestinian cause. From Jerusalem, which is half our heart, we bring you greetings from the land of Palestine, our coven, and our country. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear MPs, with this privilege, I would like to say that I strongly condemn this declaration that was issued in France yesterday. It is not possible to accept this insult, but we strongly condemn it, the attack against the People of the Book, who are a source of guidance, sent from darkness to light. Today, especially the radical Jews, based on the killings committed by fundamentalist Christians, especially in the Islamic geography, if we were to attack their saints and draw some conclusions from their holy places, it would probably not be accepted by any of them with any faith or conscience. It is not possible for us to accept such attacks, and I would like to point out that I strongly condemn the group of addicts involved in these attacks. Dear MPs, the view we see in Palestine, unfortunately, continues dramatically, as you see on the news, always on the screen. These days, especially in Jerusalem, the unjust decision made by Trump, and the U.S. government is being carried out, and directional plates and signs of the US Embassy have been hung. From here, we specifically call the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, recommend that the U.S. make up its mind. We advise him not to play with fire in the world of Islam; to give up this unacceptable, unjust rape on Palestinian soil; to stand by the oppressed, not by the oppressors; to stand by the wrong, not by the injustice, not by the law, but by the righteous, and to stand by the righteous. Today we know and believe that world peace is especially passed through the Middle East, and the Middle East peace is also through the Palestinian geography. Otherwise, we believe with all our heart that this persistent, unjust practice, which means supporting the peace of the Middle East, will one day draw the United States into this fire. From this day forward, we would like to announce that we expect all of our fellow MPs here to raise their voice, raise the voice of all of our nation's representatives until the 14th day of May, when Israel declared its establishment, and that we are willing to expect the United States to protest the United States and its action on every occasion. We believe that the most powerful weapon is the word that speaks the truth. To use this weapon in the strongest possible way, we feel that it is a responsibility to stand by the oppressed, regardless of their political position, their position, whatever their opinion, to stand by them in the Palestinian geography, where humanity's conscience is being tested, to stand next to our brothers in this oppressed geography, where dozens of people are being slaughtered every day, to history, to humanity, to our faith, and we think that it is a necessity. It's really Palestinian geography where humanity and conscience are tested. The Palestinians live in captivity in their own geography, living in open prison, trying to live as long as Israel has given them. Israel executes all forms of persecution.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0008par0065	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0066	We think it's the honor of all of us to stand up to this persecution that is unfolding before our very eyes. The strong support of Turkey in Palestine's geography...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0009par0067	Then cut off all economic relations with Israel.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0068	...we are also very pleased to observe that the Palestinian people, especially the entire Islamic world, look very well.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0009par0069	If you are sincere, cut all ties with Israel.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0070	The Palestinian people, especially our President, are very pleased with the strong support of our country, our Parliament, and our nation, and they pray to us for it, and they send us lots of greetings. They express their feelings by hugging any Turkish citizen they see in the streets of Palestine. There are valuable services done by Turkey, we can't end up counting them all here, but I'll tell you this: Tenzile Erdogan Hatip High School and we witnessed a protocol of Turkish school in Ramallah. Our president expressed Turkey's stance and feelings there. We handed out tablets to our students there.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0010par0073	What about Project FATHIH?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0074	In fact, we were delighted to see the light of hope in the eyes of our fellow students despite all the negativeness and all the impossible.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0010par0075	There was a FATHIH Project in Turkey, what happened to that FATHIH Project?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0011par0076	What about Project FATHIH, sir?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0077	We, God willing, believe that the apocalypse of the oppressor will be terrible. We believe with all our heart that one day Israel will drown in these atrocities, and, God willing, they will have to flee to the direction where those signposts are headed.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0010par0078	What about the children's tablets in the country, Project FATHIH?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0007par0079	On this occasion, until May 15th, I invite all of our MPs to stand up and raise their voice against the unfair implementation of the United States of America. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0012par0082	Thank you, Mr. Turan. Members of Parliament, we were in Palestine with our Palestinian Friendship Group Chairman, Mr. Hasan Turan. We were in Palestine to mark the opening of the Palestinian National Assembly. We were once again faced with a situation where the testimony was incompatible, where we were faced with a people who were held captive in their own land, who were oppressed and victimized in their own territory. I don't know where it starts or where it ends. We've seen how the occupations continue from 1948 to today, and we've witnessed again how the Palestinians were victimized here. Of course, as the National Assembly opens, we have once again expressed the strong support of our Parliament in Turkey for the Palestinian cause, the joint declaration of the four political parties here against America's decision to move its Embassy to Jerusalem, and the strong support of all members of our Parliament, Parliament and Parliament. I would like to take this opportunity to express that humanity has passed a test, that the conscience has passed a test, that it has been tested. In this regard, we would like to draw the attention of the entire international community once again. We are on the side of the right cause of Palestine, and in this sense, I urge America to revisit its decision to move its Embassy to Jerusalem, which is unfair and unlawful and unacceptable. Hasan Bey -- we see him from time to time, he often comes and goes, where they feel Turkey's strong support through Mr. Hasan -- and we really thank our delegation once again. Once again, I want to thank all of our Parliament, all of our MPs, all of our political parties for their support in the Palestinian cause. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I'm going to make a commitment to 15 members of parliament entering the system, respectively, according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0013par0091	President, give it to 16 people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0012par0092	Mr. Irgil, you've spoken, and we've given you more than a minute. Mr. Durmusoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0014par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. A group of so - called intellectuals in France ask the Qur'an to remove certain statements is disrespectful and disrespectful. As our President has stated, a slander campaign has been launched against our holy book with various excuses and has begun to be voiced with provocative proposals that have gone beyond the limit. There is no way that the Qur'an could be taken away from its context and bear false meanings on it, knowingly and morally. The Qur'an is a Book which Allah has revealed, according to the common belief of all Muslims. This divine word has reached our time without changing any letter, and it will not be changed or changed until the Day of Resurrection, and there is a promise made by God in this matter. Despite these facts, it is against reason, knowledge, law, conscience, and it hurts all Muslims to attack our holy place by creating perceptions of isolated and unsolved events. I strongly condemn such provocative events that would disrupt world peace, calling on the world's public to be merciful and righteous.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0012par0098	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0015par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of parliament, in the ongoing trial in İzmir, Ahmet Küçükbay, a businessman who was well-known to the public, became a confessor and named 84 people. The prosecutor explained that three of them had never been processed -- because they were AKP MPs. So I'm asking you: you don't do any operations because you're from the AKP, and then you look for your political foot in other parties like Nasrettin Hoxha lost a needle in a haystack because it's bright. What are you going to do? That's one. Secondly, who are the other 81? Are any 81 people named after Ahmet Küçükbay? Third, the business centre of Ahmet Küçükbay, was the Ýzmir Province of Turkey. I asked at that time, and I repeat: How much rent did the AKP pay at that time? Is there a lease? How many years did he stay there for free?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0016par0105	Mr. Wolf's replacement, Mr. Excessive...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0017par0107	Thank you, Mr. President. The Firat Shield, Operation Olive branch, is an operation that will be carried out by major countries. Turkey is a big country. Today, Turkey can make all kinds of decisions to ensure the safety of its country, not only within its borders, but outside its borders. Because there is stability in the country, there is trust, and there is our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, of his own free will, decides with courage. We don't have eyes on anyone's land, but we have a duty to protect our nation's integrity, our unity, our unity, our unity, our boundaries as we see fit, so we can't ignore things. It says there's a strong country, Turkey, which determines not only what's going on in the region, but also the road map of what's going to happen here, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0018par0110	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0019par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm celebrating Foundation Week. I condemn a number of so - called intellectuals, fundamentally bigots and modern bigots who have offended our holy book. There's a section in Mukadime, the famous work of Ibn Haldun, that sums up the political understanding he calls the "department of politics." This chapter, which begins with justice and ends with justice and consists of eight titles, is described as the basis for world peace. The world is like a garden and the wall of this garden is the government. It is the law that shall establish the order of the state. Only political power protects the law. The army retains political power. Economics is the only thing keeping the army going. Economic power is provided by the public. The unity and peace of the people must be brought to justice. These values must be worn and absorbed in all of our educational system and in our universities.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0020par0116	Mr. Yum instead of Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0021par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. Our demand from the government and the Minister of Labor in particular... you know the subcontractorial law came out half-baked, but unfortunately the subcontractors in the OSCE, especially in offices, in agricultural loans, in post offices, and on the Highways failed to join the staff. This is what our people, our subcontractors, all of our subcontractors, want to take advantage of the same rights. We call upon the government: "Come, let us give the rights of these workers, and let them be cast." I'm warning the Minister of Labor over and over again from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0022par0122	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0023par0124	Thank you, Mr. President. The June 24th elections will be a new beginning for Turkey, a new dawning period. Turkey has witnessed many turning points in our history; our nation has given the Çanakkale and the Liberation Wars, followed by economic wars, political turmoil, and then shaken by 60 and 82 coups. In the period of the AK PARTY governments, our nation began to wake up with a postmodern coup on February 28th. On the 15th of July, we all opposed it. We have shown the power of being together to the world through our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. With the June 24th elections, our country's power will grow, and our country will rise to have a much better future. May the Lord make our cause, our unity, and our covenant holy, and our way open.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0022par0126	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0024par0128	Members of parliament, the AKP government does not stop seeking revenge. ▪ War is a public health issue. The Turkish Medical Association's Government, which says, has taken members of the Turkish Medical Association into custody first, is trying to ban them from office by opening administrative investigations by the Ministry of Health when they can't do anything legally. The Ministry of Health is trying to dismiss these physicians as well, even though the courts found the authorities who criticised the AKP government on social media not guilty. I'm speaking to the Minister of Health: Mr. Secretary, stop dealing with our colleagues in Mersin and Adana. The physicians are responsible not only for the treatment of people but also for societies. Let's take advantage of them, their criticism and their savings. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0025par0131	Mr. Dedeoğlu instead of Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0026par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, cooperation and solidarity are the most prominent feature of a civilization. Our foundations are the most important historical heritage of Turkish-Islam civilization. He never gave up his social and social role for generations, carrying the sense of dedication, the morality of sharing, as well as the artifacts he left to human civilization. It is the site of the foundation, where all of human welfare and solidarity are applied in the broadest form, as it manifests its lofty emotions, such as caring for human beings, taking advantage of other people's possessions and wealth. The foundations were the cornerstone of Turkish-Islam culture and civilization. Our foundations, which are the institutionalization of the sense of charity and charity that exist in people's hearts from creation, have now been important in the construction of social life, just as they have been active in the creation of great cities in their history. With these thoughts and feelings, I celebrate the Week of the Foundation, pay tribute to those who work for our foundations, and salute the Veterans.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0027par0137	Mr. Akbasoglu instead of Mr. Erdogan...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0028par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. They found that they wanted to change and destroy the Quran, which was God's only book of rights, after the circumcision of the Empire and the imperial imperialist and the Zionist who wanted to format Islam under the name of Islamic and radical Islam and take Islam into their own control. Yet, mankind's salvation lies only in Islam, the Quran, and in the circumcision of the Lord. Let us remind those who have committed crimes against mankind and who have sinned against the truth and the truth that the Prophet of Islam, Abraham, Moses and Jesus Christ of Islam, and who have been sent to all the worlds as mercy, and who have the best examples for all mankind, the Lord (AS) and the Koran, that the world and the next happiness can be achieved.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0029par0142	Mr. Constant... Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly condemn 300 so-called French authors and politicians for their unconscious and vile explanation. Clearly, those who are political by means of our holy book are unable to calculate the hard slaps they will receive from Islamic geography. We are representatives of a civilization that embraces all cultures and respects every belief. That's why we expect the same sensitivity from everyone. The Qur'an emphasizes the eternal mercy of God the Almighty, and commands sharing, and love, and justice, and peace. We have faith and obedience to these commands, but we will continue to give the harshest response on every platform to anyone who is so out of line. My respects. Thank you. Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0030par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. Rotation is a form of practice that divides families, which causes the victims of education managers, inspectors and teachers, which is a negative influence on students because they cause interruptions in education. It corrupts the established structure of education, it's being used with ulterior motives, especially as a method of punishing those who are not close to power, who have opposition views, who are involved in the union struggle. This practice must be abandoned, except by the will of the educators, but not by their wishes or special circumstances. We never expect that from you, of course, as we go, but we will completely change the Admission and Replacement Rule. What I want to know is, how many rotations have there been in one year? Do you believe that these were done in fairness? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0031par0156	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0032par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. Each of the 12 choices that the EC PARTY has won so far have been vitally important, but the June 24th elections will be a mile for Turkey. After the election, the presidential government system will have strong leadership, strong Parliament, the rise and rise for Turkey, the great and powerful. We will develop our domestic and national industry to bring our country above the level of murky civilization, implementing our major projects, raising Turkey's economy by hand, making it a global force that will present brands to the world. For centuries, our learned nation has always made the right decision in the most critical of times. Turkey will give the best answer to those who make stop calculations by making the right decision again on 24 June. I believe our beloved nation will not abandon our country in its holy march to become a fully independent and powerful state. I salute the General Assembly with respect.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0033par0161	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0034par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. This Sunday, May 13th, Turkish Language Festival. Karamanoğlu Bey, ruler of the Karamanites' Bey, has ordered that a decree published on 13 May 1277 should be spoken in Turkish and written in Turkish. Thus, Turkish, official language and state language were used in Anatolia. On this occasion, I would like to celebrate the Festival of Turkish Language and repeat the words of our leader, Sir of the State Gardens: "A compromise from Turkish will put our will at risk, which will never be tolerated." And May 13th, Mother's Day. I celebrate Mother's Day, Mother's Day, the crown of all our mothers. Let my Lord give unto all mothers good sons, and good sons unto the land, and to the people, and let their faces be with their sons. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0035par0167	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0036par0169	Mr. President, since the war is a public health issue, TTB Central Council Member Dursun Yasar Ulutaş and Selma Güngör have been offered to be discharged from the state office so that they will not be extradited. Earlier, you and the head of TTB have unfortunately detained members of the TTB Central Council for seven days, and then you fire them. Don't you understand why you're working so hard on these trained professional groups and how your behavior towards trained professional groups continues to be the country's public health problem? We say don't touch the universities. Colleges are the culture of this country, its history, its savings, its future, listen to young people and don't divide universities.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0035par0170	Finally, Mr. Pineak, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0037par0172	Mr. President, over the weekend, I visited Gülnar district and villages of Mersin. Gulnar is not encouraged to invest in this district, even though it is considered a deprivation zone in the civil service. Our countrymen here, they're very victimized, they've been forced to struggle with a lot of problems. Furthermore, it is a serious injustice that many debts have been structured recently, while the farmer's debts are not structured. The debts of our poor farmers must be immediately structured. The lack of agricultural land roads in the law is a major flaw. For example, the administration in charge here is not clear whether it is the highways or the city municipality, not even that yet. Our young people in the unemployed army of college graduates can't afford their loans when they're students. Our government should not demand these payments from young people who can't provide employment. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0038par0175	Thank you. Members of parliament, I would like to say once again that we strongly condemn the approach of a fanatical group claiming to be modern in France by a racist, Islamophobic approach to the peace religion, Islam. Again, I would like to say that we strongly reject the removal of some of the verses because of the so-called anti-Semitic elements in our great book, the Quran. First of all, France should look at its own past, not be French to itself. We haven't forgotten the Inquisition. However, Western Orientalist Bernard Lewis has already expressed that anti-Semitism is his work, and so do Western writers themselves. I'd like to stop exporting their own crises and express it so that they can face them, and I'd like to say once again that we strongly condemn the situation. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0039par0184	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, as the National Movement Party Group, we strongly condemn the words of 300 so-called French intellectuals regarding the Qur'an. A hundred years ago, those who wanted to invade these lands, who turned the Middle East and Africa into a pool of blood, who ruled over the people there for many years with imperialist feelings, who slaved people there today, unfortunately, to speak ill of the Qur'an. I advise those so-called intellectuals to read the Qur'an. When they read the Qur'an, they will know that God will protect the Qur'an until the Day of Resurrection. I say the Qur'an will be preserved until the end of the day, both written and spoken in tongues. And I condemn the French intellectuals.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0040par0187	Mr. Danış Beştaş, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0041par0189	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to report a recent development. In front of the guesthouse in Diyarbakır, police shot a young man in the foot -- we also met -- in the office after the young man was left injured on the floor, the police responded with pepper gas after the people at the scene reacted and continued to intervene. We strongly condemn this incident. I'd like to point out from here that the cops are no longer on the side of death, that they're on the side of life and that these cops aren't going unpunished. And as acting president, we'd like you to follow up on the incident, see what the outcome of this injured young man's condition is. Mr. President, another matter, and I've expressed it many times before from the stand, the status of the student at the University of Bosporus. There's a new, very bad development. As it is known, students studying at Boğaziçi University were taken into custody one by one from their homes, their homes and even school, and then some were arrested after the discussion between the group that disbanded the Afrin delight and the students who said "Isgalin, there is no delight in the massacre." Now, the students' lawyers have confirmed the same information in 12/4/2018, when they were taken into custody from campus and arrested on 14/4/2018, in the two students who studied in the economy, the other in sociology department, both in the North Campus of the University of Boğaziçi and other places that were turned into torturers -- other victims have confirmed the same information -- and they also declare that they have been subjected to severe beatings and abusive insults at the Homeland Police. He's been beaten naked, always on the sidelines, sexist insults and insults.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0042par0193	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0041par0194	I'd like to express that they've been exposed. We've also learned that no doctor's report has been filed, and that even police are accompanying medical examinations. We never find this acceptable. Students must immediately resume their studies and be released. This has become a really bad practice and a threat to other students. Mr. President, there's another issue, there's public data on poverty today. The United Metal-Work Union Class Research Centre announced its April report on hunger and poverty. According to the report, the hunger limit was $1,698 and the poverty limit was $5,872. According to this, a family of four must spend $56.59 a day and $1,698 a month for a healthy diet.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0042par0197	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0041par0198	In the daily report, the highest cost group in April 2018 was produced by cheese, sedimentary and similar products, followed by meat, chicken and fish. When we add up the cost for milk, yogurt and other materials and the amount for bread, the amount for mandatory needs, we see that this limit is really far behind. It's not an explanation from the government, it's not a promise like the government, it's not a promise like the manifesto, but they still need to find a solution to the border of poverty, the border of poverty, but the government is making promises with the promises of the main opposition party. So once again, I want to make it clear that this is the most fundamental issue the government has to solve.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0042par0199	Thank you. Mr. Sky, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0043par0202	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the demand for the removal of verses from the Qur'an, published in France and announced to the world by 300 signatures, is an example of overstepping the bounds and impropriety. This declaration, published in France, will not serve the world's peace in this environment, where there is a need for tolerance among religions more than ever. We, the Republican People's Party, declare that we strongly reject and condemn this declaration published in France. Mr. President, on May 6, 1972, forty-six years ago, we saw three saplings die on the gallows of history. Deniz Past, Yusuf Aslan, Hüseyin İnan launched on charges of Turkey's full independence, but they were brutally executed after a military pardon in 1972. Forty-six years have passed since these executions. While the executions were remembered with hatred, the ideals, excitement, and principles of the Sea Gezdi, Yusuf Aslan, and Hussein Believing continue to light our way again today. I salute them once again.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0044par0205	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0045par0208	Mr. President, we ask for the mercy of the former members of the Welfare Party, former ministers Cevat Ayhan. I would like to say that we strongly condemn the statement that 300 French politicians and writers, including former French President Sarkozy, recently issued about the removal of some verses from the Qur'an. The words of the Qur'an, the change of the word of God, are an open attack on our great religion, Islam. It is a sneaky but futile attempt to show the Qur'an side by side with violence and offer it as a source of violence. Islam is a religion that emphasizes peace and brotherhood, not violence. The fact that such an attempt to corrupt Islam occurs in a country such as France, which states that it is a defender of freedom of religion and conscience, is a clear indication of what has come to the stage of intolerance and intolerance in France. I regret to say that in recent years in Europe, the language of hatred and violence for Islam and Muslims is growing under the name of freedom of expression. In European countries, racist and fascist trends are rising, Islamophobia is spreading. Let it not be forgotten that attacking someone else's holy is not freedom of expression. We, the Turkish nation, are a nation that respects every religion, every religion, but we certainly cannot and will not tolerate these attacks on our nation's religion and our holy book, the Quran. In this sense, once again, we express that we strongly condemn this declaration published in France, inviting everyone to respect religious beliefs.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0046par0212	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0047par0215	Mr. President, the week we're in, we're going to understand Foundation Week. In this land, our people have moved to the highest level, the highest level, the highest level of the foundation, which means the dedication of a certain community of goods to charity. But what we see in television ads this week is that with the money that goes into charity, there are ads in favor of someone who was nominated for this election during the start of the election calendar. Using this as a selection material means the concept of the word "vakif" is, of course, quite contrary to the will of the foundation here. Again, May 13 is the Festival of Language. Our language is the greatest tribute that will keep the people of this land together. You have to take care of it. However, one night, those who remove the words of the word "arena" because of its suggestion, bring Turkish to the tablets. Those who boasted about it gave it to them. How Turkish this is, and I offer it to the grace of our beloved nation. And I would like to say again that we find it very convenient to publish this manifesto, with the promise that someone who has been referred to as a transhuman trait, would have lost his donkey and then find it to please his strange servant.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0046par0217	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. Members of parliament, we, as the Council of Parliament, ask our former ministers, the esteemed political and statesman of Sakarya MP Cevat Ayhan to have God's mercy; his place will be in heaven. And our condolences to his grieving family from here. Now, the presidency has its presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to make it read and present it to you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Committees consisting of members of the Turkish Parliament's Foreign Affairs Commission have made visits to Switzerland, Iran, Ukraine and Finland, according to Article 6/9 of Law No. 3620 on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In addition, the visiting of the Foreign Commission of the Belarusian Parliament and the Committee of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Finnish Parliament has been met with the Council of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 14/3/2016 date and decision 56. On the visit to Switzerland is TBM Foreign Commission President and İstanbul MP Volcano Bozır, Adana MP Fatma Güldemet Sarı, Hatay MP Serkan Topal, Antalya MP Mehmet Günal; on the visit to Iran, TBM Foreign Commission President and İstanbul MP Volcan Bozır, Samsun MP Hasan Basri Kurt, İstanbul MP Azmi Ekcici, Ankara MP Murat Emir and İstanbul MP Mehmet Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu; on the visit to Ukraine, İstanbul MP Volcan Bozır, Tokat MP Coşkun Çakır, Balıkezır, Balıkesir MP Ahmet Akya MP and the Finnish Parliament's Parliament for Finland, and İstanbul MP Mehmet Aksım's Democratic Party of Turkey and İstanbul MP Mehmet Ekmedin İhsanoğlu; on the visit to Turkey's Democratic Assembly of Turkey's Parliament, the Council of Turkey's Council of Turkey and the Council of Turkey and the Parliament of Turkey. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman It has been presented to your knowledge. Members of parliament, as the main commission, the Commission for Foreign Affairs, as a commission, has been withdrawn from the Government of the Republic of Turkey (1/840), which has been transferred to the Commission of Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology (1/840) and the Government of the Republic of Moldova, to ratify the Agreement on Reciprocity and Protection. It has been presented to your knowledge. Now, the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has four other papers, so I'll have them read separately and vote for you: Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly Malatya MP Taha Özhan is presented to the General Assembly's nineth amendment to the World Bank and International Money Fund's annual meeting of the Parliamentary Network, which will be held in Washington, United States, on 15-20 May 2018 and dated 28/3/1990 and under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey No. 3620. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The petition commission has made a request that the Turkish Grand National Assembly be able to work on vacation and during recess. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Human Rights Review Commission has had a request for the Turkish Grand National Assembly to work during its holiday and recession. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The Women's Male Opportunity Equality Commission has had a request that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey be able to work on vacation and during recess. This request, which is approved by our presidency, shall be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 25 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have to read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Advisory Board cannot meet on Tuesday 8/5/2018 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 13 March 2018, Adana MP Deputy Chair Meral Danış Beştaş proposed that the next dimension of unemployment that has increased in recent years should be held before the other proposals of Parliamentary Research Act 7105, which was given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly in order to investigate the reasons for this issue, instead of hiring or appointments based on merit. Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0048par0283	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group. First, I salute you all. Dear friends, what we come to today as a country is a picture of injustices growing in all areas, where AKP's economic policies first diminish workers' jobs and then all parts of society. In light of the latest data released by the Turkish Statistical Agency, we have come to the conclusion that economic growth, which has been repeatedly claimed by all government officials, is essentially not reflected in workers. The overall unemployment rate is 10.8%, 19.9% of the youth unemployment rate is up to 13.4%. Given the number of unemployment and increased populations and labour forces that have reached double households, it is clear that the opportunities for human dignity will not come with AKP's employment policies. Dear friends, Turkey is a country that has an advantage over many countries in the world in terms of young populations. As a result of AKP's policies, however, this potential has become either a slave or a reserve army of unemployed. The youth unemployment rate is 19.9 per cent, which means one of the five young people we see every day in our home, on our street are unemployed. This is a terrible painting, the most fundamental harbinger of our fear of a dark future in the country. During the AKP, however, there was a great deal of opportunity to end young unemployment; foreign investments were developing; global economic growth was growing; but without technological progress, the democratic-economic equation became a cause of schizophrenia on the throne of the padishah, and our young people became unemployed. What is the AKP's government doing while our young are still in position as a reserve army of unemployed? On the other hand, the employment of young people in both the public and the private sector is shaped not by merit, but by favourative approaches, and the painting that this creates is quite severe. Aside from the lack of a solution to such a young population, the transfer of these young people's jobs to close environments will bring with it other problems. Dear friends, in Turkey, not only young people, but citizens who have reached 3.5 million are unemployed. These figures are unacceptable. Today, he is still unemployed with 837,000 college graduates. About 12 or 13 million people live in the country without the income to provide human quality of life. In addition to the actual unemployment that data shows, working poverty is one of Turkey's major problems. In addition, the AKP has reached a point where only its own allies can get jobs by employing those close to the government under the name of the new appointments, instead of the citizens it exported as a result of trustees, State and war policies, who have been vaccinated from its job. For example, a number of AKP county administrators are listed as judges and prosecutors from the judge and prosecutor's office who have been expelled by the Turkish Cypriots to close the gap, and the appointment to the universities is made up of names close to the government. Unfortunately, we've seen the government placed in all other institutions and organizations from their own allies. The unjust and unlawful discharge of thousands of citizens has been transformed into AKP's own ideologies into a staffing movement. This has deepened poverty and the economic crisis. There is no doubt that the government's own ideology-based staffing movement will cause a deeper impact on the current crisis of unemployment. As a matter of fact, employment policies, which are therefore governed by a nepotistic approach, are also disappointing for young people. Therefore, it is necessary for employment policies to be investigated for the reasons and consequences of the current situation and to find a solution immediately. So we're putting together an urgent research commission, and we're making a request to investigate these approaches to unemployed young people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0049par0294	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, İstanbul MP Cyber Özdemir will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0050par0299	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the group's proposal to investigate the reasons why the People's Democratic Party Group should not be employed based on merit and the reasons why the hiring should be done through familiar means and the opening of parliamentary research into the necessary measures. I salute the General Assembly and the High Council. Precious lawmakers, when we look at the group proposal, it is noted that without merit, hiring and appointings are being held through acquaintances and the ruling party, where the recruitment of those close to power is blocked through interviews. While participating in these findings, today's state administration and state recruitment and promotions have sadly dominated the pleasure. The government's integrity system has been compromised. Instead of merit, unfortunately, the system of loyalty to the palace, the party state has dominated. Even an officer's appointment of the palace without the approval of the ruling party has been rendered undesigned, our country. The state has been ruled by pleasure for years. So, colleges, our most important, most fundamental bureaucratic institutions, unfortunately, have moved away from the merit-based employment policy and a lack of planning has dominated the state mechanism. So, with the collapse of integrity in the state, unemployment, inflation, business, justice, law, basic rights and freedoms, transparency, corruption, and foreign policy, unfortunately today, our country and our nation are left with these fundamental issues. The elections are about a month and a half away, but the patience of the pensioner, the worker, the unemployed, and, in particular, the undergraduate unemployed, the merchant, the shopkeeper, the farmer, and all the areas of society is now sadly overextended. Here, the orator before me, the orator with the proposal, has just released the data on unemployment. When the unemployment rate was 10.8 per cent, which TÜİK was last announced, the actual unemployment rate reached almost 20 per cent. More than half of 944,000 jobs have been created over the last year stemming from unregistered employment, apprentice, trainee high school students. We have 5,900,000 citizens who claim to be ready to work when they find a job even though they are not looking for a job. At last, at work, we all witnessed the long line of unemployed people in Kilis and Tripoli. The number of young unemployed has exceeded 1 million. Of every 100 unemployed citizens, 27 have graduated from university. Unfortunately, we won't be able to solve these problems unless the state is governed by intelligence and science. Yes, problems can't be solved by saying 'Ahdim', by swearing. The ruling party, which has been in power alone for 16 years, will no longer be able to solve the fundamental problems of this country. Here's what I'm saying to those who've brought down the merits, to those who have lost the rights, to the people who will give the best answer on June 24th, and to those who will lead the state with integrity and wisdom. I share that we're in favor of the group proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0051par0306	Thank you. The last word on behalf of the groups is for the Justice and Development Party Group, Aksaray MP Genghis Aydoğdu. Here you go, Mr. Moondog.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0052par0310	Mr. President, dear friends, the state's participation in social life as an employer is basically the same age as industrialization. It's industrialization to associate what we call employment with the state. The public office is a separate bet, as a business gate, the provision of the masses from the state is a separate bet. What we call "employment" is a system that the state uses to get its own work done based on merit and driver's license, and in our history, it's basically a very thorough application of it, but employment is a separate bet for the provision of the masses, for the provision of the masses, for the benefit of the vaccine, for the gain of its livelihood, and for the cause of social life. In the years when population growth began in Turkey, employment has been an issue of dissatisfaction in any case, as our private sector has not developed, because old professions have been lost, new livelihoods have been violated, and somehow the state's handling of them has become a fear of politics in the democratic years. However, the 2000s are another issue because as an employer, serious obstacles have arisen in front of the state to become a means of transportation, along with developing technology in the 2000s. In a way, it is necessary to think about the Likat issue mentioned in the motion that the officer should rely on people who are employed by the state to have a relationship with the state, and that the need for expertise, a need for knowledge, a need for skill, and that it may somehow be a matter of propaganda against the state. With this reputation, the issue of state and employment is always a delicate issue, and it's been our basic policy to somehow prevent unemployment, to open new business doors by supporting the private sector of the state. Employment campaigns, in fact, have been carried out as a serious policy in Turkey's private sector as well. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0053par0315	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 8/5/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Ankara MP Levent Gök and his friends gave 1891 rankings to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7/5/2018 to determine measures to avoid floods in Ankara. It has been suggested that the meeting of the lu Parliamentary Research Proclamation shall be held before other proposals and will be held on Tuesday (8/5/2018). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, the first word on the proposal belongs to Ankara MP Levent Gök. Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0054par0330	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. On May 5th and May 6th, Ankara suffered two major floods in a row, valued MPs. Suddenly, the pouring rain brought hundreds of cars to the front of both Mamak (Mamak) and Goatören, causing hundreds of households and floods at work. My dear friends, of course there are natural disasters in our country as there are in all parts of the world, and we can understand when we consider the magnitude of them, but what would you say if they came to us, the precious MPs? Look, after the flood in Ankara, especially in this Mamak region, the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor has made the following statement, saying: "There is no such thing in the history of Ankara, there is no measure, what can you do in the face of such a disaster? Mr. President, I'm showing you the size of the disaster. Look, people are drifting on cars in Hurriyet Ankara, they're in the life market. Again, another newspaper: a landscape like a battlefield. Again, a very bad landscape, the flood brought everyone in front of it, put the vehicles in front of it, became completely unusable. So, is the mayor of the city telling the truth? The mayor of the city is not telling the truth, my dear friends, because the mayor of the city went to that area on the day of the rain, he doesn't know the area. But we're in that area every year because there are floods and disasters in this area every year. Look, there was a flood in the same area three years ago, and what did the papers say, my dear friends? I'm reading newspaper clippings from three years ago -- where it happened -- Ankara Mamak Boğaziçi neighborhood Neşet Ertaş Street -- you're looking at newspaper reports from three years ago: in Ankara Neşet Ertaş Street, in the capital, there was a flood in the city of Boğaziçi Neşet Ertaş Street, where two people were hit by floods in the flood waters, and the car was damaged. Again, another news: Neşet Ertaş Street in Mamak district has turned it into a flood. Now, what does the mayor of the district say? Mr. Mesut Akgül says: "I don't think the disaster of this flood was caused by infrastructure." That, my dear friends, is the point of this investigation. Who denies both the Ankara Metropolitan Mayor and the Mayor of Mamak? Asci General Manager of Ankara Metropolitan Municipality. ASKI General Director of the Union pushes the period away from its hand, explaining exactly this: "It is of great importance not to close the stream over it so as not to suffer frequent floods, not to have the surface of the land unsustainable, not to pour water into the grilles and canals, not to be built in a way that narrows the creek beds, but to take into account the flood of the building plans. " Now, my dear friends, this problem isn't today's problem, it's tomorrow's problem. Why should Ankara's financial loss happen again, the spiritual trauma that our people face in this case? There's a flood that happens every year, but it's an Ankara Metropolitan Municipality administration that doesn't take precautions. The mayor of the city doesn't know about this, the mayor of Mamak doesn't know about this, but there's the Architects' Room, there's the City Planners. ASKI General Manager says what is to be done, and says, "Everything was done wrong during the time of the sky." I think our coven should take a look at this. What do you mean, dear friends, that the capital is a flood victim of a city of 5.5 million people? The flood of the capital means that many provinces in Turkey are unsecured. So we propose that our Parliament adopt this proposal, that a commission be set up by agreeing on what the necessary measures would be in order to prevent such incidents from happening in Ankara again. Let's do this, we need this; the people who run Ankara need it, everyone needs it. Our goal is never to harm people again, not Ankara. The wealth spent here is all of our wealth when the flood struck. In that respect, we expect your support in this motion. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0055par0340	Please complete, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0054par0341	So this motion is also a non-political motion. So from now on, we can demonstrate an example to all provinces on the Ankara scale of what should be done in the floods. Look, nature is destroying what was taken from it again, my dear friends. Nature says don't touch me, don't touch the green, don't concreteize. If you're building a building, make room for green. Rehabilitate the creek beds. Let the trees grow, let the greens grow so that when it rains, it will draw the water. In any further instances, I would like to suggest that we have a very strong research motion for our Parliament, and I would like to ask that all of my Ankara citizens be granted this motion. My respects, my love.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0056par0345	Thank you, Mr. Sky. On behalf of the groups, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0057par0349	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, I salute you all. I say to the Ankarans and to the people who live in other places that have suffered disasters in recent rains. When a disaster, a negative, the reaction of power reminds me of two things: If you have a hammer in your hand, you see everything as nails. The word, one of which is that Goethe sees every eye, but the eye sees only what he knows. For the past five or six years, people have come to the government staff, who are not sure where they are, who are not qualified, who are away from the public and reality, and people who are not close to the public and reality. These people only see what they know; they can suddenly see that it happens every five hundred years when a disaster happens, they see the physique, they see fate, but they don't see the laws that humanity has found in its relationship with nature until now. Today, the dollar goes towards 4,30, but the person at our disposal sees that in inflation-related relations, it's all over the world, and that's the exact opposite of what I've been taught in the Department of Finance. After this disaster, it will likely be passed by the ruling staff to the exceptions of the State Contraction Law, and it will be seen how to escape the principle of openness and competition during the reconstruction and disaster damage. Let's give it up, and let's bring humanity's experience, our savings, and a sense of governance to our people and to our people in such matters as disaster. For him, the adoption of this motion would be a positive step in this direction, far from any political debate. I say once again that it would be a good opportunity for the competent staff of June 24th, for certain staffs, for the public and for the reality, for the staff close to the truth to come to work, and for Turkey to get rid of the ball of these problems, which I am in favor of the motion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0058par0357	Thank you. Ankara MP Erkan Haberal will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Haberal.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0059par0361	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal. I salute the Turkish nation and the General Assembly. Our citizens suffered a severe loss due to a flood in the District of Mamak, Ankara, and later in our district of Goatören. Yes, it's true, it's a disaster, but it's not just nature that's responsible, as the authorities say. Mr. Mamak, I've had a chance to speak with the mayor, and I wish them well, and I agree with them. The problem is not only that the infrastructure is inadequate or that the municipality does not provide maintenance. In fact, the main problem is that Ankara Metropolitan Municipality has allowed deviant urbanization over the years, procrastinating infrastructure services, or even more blinding to makeup activities. In Ankara, the closure of dozens of streams and water beds flowing through the city, the lack of proper drainage, and the seating of residential units have invited these disasters. Mr. Mustafa Tuna, the new mayor of Ankara, is going to be a disaster every five hundred years. I'm afraid he's in a hurry to protect his predecessor, the mayor and his team. He's a very kind friend of ours, and I know him personally, and I love him, but please, I'd like him to change his counsel. Please don't forget that nearly 1,000 of our citizens were killed in the flood in Ankara on September 11, 1957, and that nearly 3,000 houses were destroyed by a flood. The CHP representative spoke as he spoke about the floods in Ankara over the past three years. Ankara has been dealing with floods for 60 years. In Ankara, look, this flood on 9/11, 1957 is no different than the flood of the flood last week in Mamak. For 60 years, unfortunately, Ankara has been dealing with floods. Mr. President, for some reason, there's been a disaster like this every five hundred years. He's been a little intentional about it, and I don't want to blame him, they're the new president, but I'd like to say this in particular: I'm afraid that if this mentality continues, it will be mandatory to insure it against the risk of drowning for our citizens living in Ankara. We're in favor of this motion's motion for research. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0060par0368	Thank you. İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0061par0372	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party regarding the CHP group proposal. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that this group proposal is correct and that there is a great need. Dear lawmakers, three days ago, rather than the natural disaster at Mamak and Goatören, we have shown how we still look at the city, how we understand urbanism, by looking at the consequences of some kind of disaster, which is, unfortunately, lack of infrastructure and damage to nature. Dear lawmakers, now in developed countries -- I mean especially developed nations -- are considered by 50 and a hundred years of periods and disasters, and in this sense, plans are made, programs are made, projections are developed. But unfortunately, we don't even have disaster data; we don't have 25 or 50 or 100 years of disaster data, so we never planned for it. Now, when we came to the Mamak special, really, in the past, 1964, I remember Hatip Tea very well, in 1966, 1967, we were swimming in that Hatip Tea. Where that flood happened, children, in those willows... the Orator tea was a deep tea, it was clean, there was fish, and we swam in that tea, and I remember it very well, especially myself. But the idea of urbanism, of so-called urbanism, especially in Mamak, where the sub-income groups live, and in Goatsureen, there was no proper planning. When I said it couldn't be planned, they actually came up with a so-called zoning plan, so-called squatters, they were supposed to raise that life level there, but you said that the urban conversion projects -- I'll say it again -- destroyed all the city's water secession and integration lines, and you told nature to bring this disaster to life. Now, there is no reforming of any stream in the Mamak and Goatören, my friends. There's tea from Ta Lalahan, Lalabel, and Elmadağ, and there's no reform work. So is the Bosphorus who was exposed to disaster today. The Bosporus is a 60-year-old city; it was actually a very important place for Ankara. There, my friends, are still no rainwater projects today. Today, can you imagine where in Ankara is there a gallery-style infrastructure study? It's not happening. Rainwater's running out today. Even in public institutions, there are no warehouses that hold rainwater and use it in landscapes. So, now, I'd like to read a poem by our poet Kemal Burkay. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0062par0380	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0061par0381	When we arrived, the grass grew green Cute little shantyhouses. It's good to be on the road now. Foodak was such a neighborhood, but it became uninhabitable. I'd also like to make you a suggestion that all the people who have been mayor by now are actually responsible for this, and in fact, those damages are necessary. When we do something like this, we'll be taking precautions against the executives. This motion states that it is true, and we also demand that this motion be expanded and become a subject of extensive research. We pay our respects.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0063par0395	Thank you. The final statement on the Republican People's Party proposal belongs to Ankara MP Nevzat Ceylan (JP) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ceylan.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0064par0399	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's group proposal for Saturday and Sunday's flood. I salute the High Council. As you know, on Saturday (April 5th), in the afternoon of a very heavy rain, we all saw the disaster at the Bosporus Neighborhood Neşet Ertas Street in Mamak, where we saw it on television, and we saw it on TV, and it was really a very high scale of disaster. According to reports, in exactly nine minutes, 44 cubic metres of rainwater fell to the square meter. We can safely say that this has been a disaster that has not happened for centuries. Of course, in the face of this disaster, we have seen that the citizens are powerless to deal with disasters together. And as a result of that, immediately our relevant institutions, our municipal agencies, AFAD and our authorities, particularly the governorate, went to the neighborhood very quickly, and damage detection was done very quickly. As a result, 10 dwellings, 61 workplaces have been damaged. 81 vehicles, again, were found damaged at the scene of an SUV. In fact, it's been known to have been damaged around 200 vehicles, but we know that 81 vehicles have no insurance. In this direction, immediately, at midnight, total damage was determined by identifying vehicles, dwellings, and workplaces. A total of 10 dwellings and 61 businesses have been assessed for 605,250 euros of damage, and 584,600 lira damage for 81 non-constructive vehicles. The total damage assessment of $1,189,850 immediately began to be paid on Sunday, and their payments were completed. There are only one objections. Those objections will also be carried out, and within 24 hours, that area will be restored to its original state. Dear friends, in fact, the disaster here -- it's been said in the group proposal -- has happened many, many years ago. But after these disasters here, the infrastructure has been completed, especially with a 2/1.60-wide rainwater chute, and we can say that the infrastructure of this area has been completed. Again, in the same way, there were 127 homes in Goatsurean that were damaged in Sunday's disaster. In this case, around $1,200,000 of damage has been detected and payment has been started quickly. Therefore, none of our citizens have been victims. But we have to admit, I hope we never meet these disasters again. Because Ankara is a city of streams, as far as its geographical structure is concerned. The closure of the tops of the creeks years ago and warped construction are at the top of their main causes. I hope this kind of disaster doesn't happen again, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0065par0405	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0066par0406	Do you support the motion?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0064par0407	There's support, there's telling.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0067par0408	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0068par0409	Here you go, Mr. Sky.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0067par0410	Sir, after the incident, damage detection has been done, as Mr. Ceylan put it. Of course, the subject of our research proposal is different, the subject of our research proposal, the subject of what should happen in order for this to never happen again. Mr. Ceylan is a very valuable member of the National Parks General Assembly, and I know him very well, but here's the problem with destroying green. Because of the twisted concreteification, the use of the building in a very different way and the closing of the streams, Ankara can live and live in this danger from now on. I hope he doesn't live.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0068par0411	I hope he doesn't live.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0067par0412	But all our efforts are to ensure that these disasters never happen again. With all due respect, I'm asking for a fair number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit01spe0068par0414	Mr. Sky, thank you. Of course, we wish that our Lord would protect us from all disasters, and in that sense, we say to all the Ankarans, especially the Mamakians, that we too should get well again. I'm going to submit the Republican People's Party Group proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0068par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the Republican People's Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the Republican People's Party group proposal... those who refuse... there are enough decisions, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 8/5/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President In the absence of 48 hours of the Law Bill 557, which has been distributed under pressure, the agenda will be placed in the second order of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the order of the work in this section shall be determined according to this one. The request of the government for a renegotiation of Article 7 of the 556 rows adopted and Article 182 added to Article 2809 under Article 89 of the Civil Code shall be submitted to the General Assembly's approval. On Tuesday, May 8, 2018, until the completion of the talks of Bill 556 in the merger of Tuesday (today), Until Wednesday, May 9, 2018, when the talks of Bill 557 were completed, Until the meeting of Thursday, May 10, 2018, until the completion of the talks on the Legislature of 551 rows, On Thursday, May 10, 2018, in the event that the negotiations of the General Assembly cannot be completed until the 551th Bill of Law, on Thursday, May 11, 2018, at 14 p.m. on Friday (May 11, 2018). The meeting at 00 p.m. and the meeting of the Agenda in "The Bill of Law and Other Jobs From Commissions" and the completion of the talks on matters leading up to Bill 551. In accordance with Article 91 of the Civil Code, the Law Bill 557 is considered to be the main law, and its sections are the same as on the accompanying table. It's recommended. Kurıkkale MP Ramazan Can will speak on behalf of the party's proposal for Justice and Development Party. Here you go, Mr. Can.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0069par0025	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We recommend reevaluation of Article 7 of Higher Education Act 556 under Article 7 of Article 182, under Article 89 of the Civil Charter, as well as the restructuring of Tax 557, and of some Accompanyments. If these two laws are to be completed by Thursday evening, and if they're not completed by Thursday afternoon, it's the 14th of the General Assembly on Friday as working hours. We open up at 00, and present the completion of these laws to the approval of the General Assembly. The group welcomes our proposal to the General Assembly's discretion, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0070par0029	Thank you. On behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir will speak. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0071par0032	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. When the Padishah Bible loses Sergeant, it makes a golden plow and a gold yoke and demands a price, a price. The answer to the Gospel of Sergeant is not because of what substance the yoke and the plow are made of, but because it rains in April and boasts in May, no one can assess its value, but if it does not fall in April, and if it cries in May, let the padishah break it in its own head. Guys, when it doesn't work on your calendar, it doesn't even have plums. If the weather isn't what it was supposed to be in April when it blooms, it doesn't have apricots, it doesn't have plums. Now, from last week to this time, let's step back and take a look at ourselves. Last week, we brought universities on the agenda of Congress as if Turkey's biggest issue was the scale of universities. You made a motion to work through the morning to get this out of here, and you accepted it yourself. On Thursday, when you said you saw yourself in a very urgent situation and took the House out of its normal way, you did not provide a majority of you here and closed the House. Last week, despite a number of objections to the 7th Amendment, you agreed to the 7th amendment here, and now, after a day of meeting in the Parliament, you're saying, "It's a deal." Guys, we can't possibly get anywhere like this. Today, Turkey's universities have many issues, but these are not issues to be solved by being so compressed. When we look at societies around the world, we see the main reason why they differ from each other is that if any society has built a predictable, computable environment, development, development, people can make themselves happen. Because they can plan their lives. But where joy, uncertainty prevails, like plums in nature, man can't make his own plan. Today, our business man can't put a price on 15 days from now. Today our student doesn't know if it's going to be a test this year. We don't know what's going to happen in a month today. We've decided on the election, and we don't know if the election will be made. Such an environment is not good for society, let's give it up. The law is the greatest source of legitimacy. We don't have much time to hurry, so let's do everything properly, let's do it once, let's do it fast. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0072par0037	Thank you, Mr. Coachdemir. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Bitlis MP Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı will speak. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0073par0041	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Justice and Development Party Group. I salute the General Assembly and our following nation. By relying on the majority of fingers, you have changed the hours of the House, changed people's biological clocks, turned people's lives upside down. The arbitrary changes you've made so far indicate that AKP's chemistry has been corrupted since 7 June 2015. You've been subjected to these unstable studies. You're wasting time pretending to work. That's not real and efficient work. Non-productive studies are futile studies, an effort to create artificial agendas, to put people and lawmakers to sleep, to deceive them; to waste time in vain. Look, you narrowed it down to 20 minutes of conversation, ten minutes of conversation, five minutes of conversation, three minutes of conversation, just to silence the opposition, but ultimately, it's a lot more time wasted. There's a saying among the people: "We have no work, we have no hands. This is what we do. And finally, I want to remind you that on the way out, you had a formula called "3Y" - bans, poverty, corruption. And these poor people thought you'd put it away. However, when you put a number in front of a letter in mathematics, you triple it, and you've done it right, and corruption has tripled, and the bans have tripled, and poverty has tripled, but I'm sure on June 24th, that people will reverse your watch. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0074par0047	Thank you. The last word on behalf of the groups belongs to the Republican People's Party Group, the Manisa MP, Free Special. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0075par0051	Mr. President, we're facing a group proposal again, the way the House works, the clocks will be changed again. But we're facing a disappointment. Last week, a large number of lawmakers expressed their concerns, objections to the division of universities from here and remained on a specific basis. The students of those universities, the professors, expected a positive step towards this division, which would lead to the unidentification of their graduates' universities, but unfortunately, today it seems that he is stubborn, he insists, he will continue, he will go wrong. You divide the stands, you divide the physicians, you divide the squares, you divide the cities, you divide the neighbors, you divide the emotions, you divide the beliefs, now it's time to divide the universities. What you're doing is not just a technical arrangement. Istanbul University, the institution of 1453, has such symbolic significance, its roots are Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror, Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror's tuition, and now you're going to divide this university into the name of the University of Cerrahpaşa and the University of Istanbul. One of Turkey's most famous medical schools will be called the Faculty of Surgerypaşa University of Medicine. It's a lie, it's wrong, it's a job you can't afford. You divide the gas, 1926, which is based on Ataturk. You go back to Gazi University, you divide it by Haci Bayram Veli University. Haci Bayram Veli is very important to all of us; before the opening of the First Assembly of Ataturk, he goes to the first Assembly and carries the name of the mosque where he prays on Friday, and he bears the name of Haci Bajram Veli. Now, Haci Bayram Veli, as part of a chapter that broke up with Gazi... it's a false attitude that eliminates partnership in emotion, a false attitude that eliminates co-existence. In fact, this understanding of governance, which calculated to divide everything, to separate it, to suspend it, to polarize it, to demonize the other pole, to collect your own back. There are now candidates for the President of 80 million, but they have a sense that they can't achieve 50+1, that they're exhausted in their own desperation, that they're getting weaker and weaker, that they're losing more and more power. You've seen the error, the polarization has trapped you in the middle. This is our candidate for the President who embraces everyone, and it's a futile effort to keep your side together through this separation line that you've uncovered, with more division, with more division. We'll continue to decipher it today, keep our universities in check. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We'll try not to divide them; divide them, divide them, come June 25th, put them together. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0076par0059	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0077par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0076par0061	Mr. Mush, I promise you from your position to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0077par0065	Mr. President, I'd like to say once that we don't accept the allegations that the character has raised in a heated way here, we reject them. The AK PARTY is Turkey's uniting force, a party that has elected MPs from almost all of Turkey's provinces, the only party in 78 provinces that can get MPs out of it. This is perhaps the most important indication that our party is actually the party of Turkey, that the entire nation has established a throne in its heart. I'd like to say that we always prefer to talk about concrete data, not abstract concepts. Secondly, sir, we have candidates for the president, who embrace 80 million, who don't embrace yours. From the day the EC PARTI was founded, Recep Tayyip Erdogan served as Prime Minister and served as President. There's been a variety of discussions, talks, talks, talks, talks, talks, talks. We've been asked to look for partners. There's been a lot of public debates, such as there's no description, there's no description, there's no candidate for description, there's not going to be one. The public knows very well who is the Uniter, who is polarizing, who is in despair, who is the President's candidate, what shape his face is in when it's explained, and we're not going into a polemic about it, we're leaving it to our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0078par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0079par0071	Mr. Special, I give you my word for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0078par0074	He says it himself, he tells it, and we know what we heard. For sixteen years, some people have been running the country directly. They say: "I have a covenant, and this interest will fall." I have not been the one who has brought it out for sixteen years. I have a covenant, this dollar, this euro will fall. It says. You're in power today, you can't lower the interest, you can't lower the euro, you can't lower the dollar. The farmer is using the world's most expensive diesel. I'll take care of them, I'll fix them. You say. And the covenant of the land, and of the people, and of the elect, shall be delivered from you, and he shall send you, and he shall be at peace, and he shall be at peace. 50 per cent of the house, 50 per cent of the street, 50 per cent of the city's wedding, 50 per cent of the city's wedding, 50 per cent of us versus this one, we're together, we're 80 million. Panic is wasted, you're leaving, we say goodbye to you. Bye.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0080par0078	Together we are Turkey. Now, I'd like you to vote for the Justice and Development Party's proposal...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0078par0083	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit02spe0080par0084	I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor, all those in denial. There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0080par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The ruling vote for the Justice and Development Party's group proposal was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is accepted, the decision is sufficient. In accordance with the group proposal now adopted, I will have the government's request to re-interview under Article 89 of the Civil Code and submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to propose and renegotiate the 7th article of the Law Bill 556, which has been adopted under Article 2809 and Article 182, added to Law 2809, under Article 89 of the Civil Code. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. The government's request will be fulfilled when it comes to it. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since Law Proposal 2/361 of the Interior Commission has completed its forty-five-day waiting period, I submit its obligation to be taken directly into the TBMM agenda according to the Civil Code 37. According to the Civil Charter 37, Mersin MP Baki Simsek will speak on behalf of the bidder on the proposal. Your time is five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0081par0024	Mr. President, I have made a direct commitment to the establishment of Metropolitan Municipality and 27 districts in Numbers of 6360 and to the agenda of the internal ordinances of some Laws and Laws under Article 37. I hereby salute the High Council. The legal personality of villages and municipalities has been removed in the newly established and expanding urban cities, as the law of the capital, which carries many risks, social, economic and political. The villages in these places have joined the town's municipality as a neighborhood, while the municipalities have joined the town's municipality as one neighborhood under the name of the town. With this law passed, our citizens, who live in villages and towns transformed into neighborhoods, face many problems. Unfortunately, some of the competencies are connected to the city's municipality, some to the district's municipalities. The construction of villages' roads has been transferred to the capital city municipality, to the city's municipality, which has built indoor roads. The authority for drinking water has been granted to the city's municipality, the town's municipality to collect garbage. Can you imagine, Mersin, 200 miles from Tarsus to Anamur? Funeral services at a distance of 350km are provided by the Metropolitan municipality. There's only one law that everyone agrees on when we meet with the commissioners or the ministers, that the Metropolitan Law must be reassembled. In fact, Mr. Secretary said that the bill on this bill had been drafted and that it would be presented to the House after New Year's Eve, but unfortunately, there's not been a step in the matter. We must insist that this law be adopted, reconsidered before the 2019 elections and that the setbacks here be removed. Local municipalities are now the size of the head of an office of the city's municipalities or the director of science; its budget is narrowed, its revenues are narrowed. Local municipalities have no proper authority except to provide garbage collection and construction licenses, and many services have been transferred to the city municipality until police services. In addition, along with this law, our citizens face many problems with planning and licensing procedures. Unfortunately, in the year 2018, many major cities still have 100,000-plus zoning plans, 5,000-plus zoning plans, and 1/1. The plans for the construction of the 000-lead application have not been completed. There have been many setbacks, much less planning in the villages, even in the urban centers. We just changed the name of the villages. We said, "You've changed the name of the village." Unfortunately, the village doesn't leave the village. The people in the village are still living the same life, they're in the village, they're in livestock, they're in chicken farms, they're in agriculture, but they're called neighborhoods. Because of still unresolved zoning problems, many people are forced to do illegal construction, unregistered construction; electricity, water subscriptions are facing many problems. It's about the zoning peace that's about to be taken care of now, and it's about to be determined in detail by subcontracted regulations, the absence of new scandals after zoning peace, making sure that there's no new scandals, especially in areas where there's a protection, about people living in villages, in rural areas, of course, if there's a house they're going to put their heads on, there's got to be a certain ease about it, with those who build houses or other properties without a license, but there's got to be a need to be a way to go through that law about building building building in the city, or a multi-level building building building building building building building building building in the country. In addition, municipalities have faced many problems with the Metropolitan Law and the real estate cycles again. Many real estates -- some municipalities -- were transferred to ruling party municipalities within the city's municipal border -- were unfortunately not transferred to some. Mersin Metropolitan City wants to organize beaches, about the age of the beaches, unfortunately, the procedure is still incomplete, but a simple rental cannot be concluded. All of the powers here must be transferred to municipalities, especially the beaches in coastal cities, and all of the beaches must be transferred to city municipalities. In addition, many of the people who worked in municipalities with the subcontractor law again were recruited, but especially those who worked at the OSCE were left out of the scope. Some of the municipality employees have lost their jobs after the uncertainty stemming from the 30 per cent and 70 per cent of the contract between the developer and the municipality's tender to set prices, and after the subcontractorial law due to forensic investigations. In addition, as Mr. President-elect put it, when he entered the year 2023 along with the Metropolitan Law...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0082par0033	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0081par0034	Turkey must be restored to a new system of governance from 100 provinces and 1,000 districts. Also, the debt of farmers and other trade groups must be covered along with tax peace. Farmers are in real trouble, which must be considered, otherwise there will be serious problems in the agricultural sector. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0038	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. I submit to your votes the motion for Civil Code 37, those in favor of... Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. Thus, according to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions or other audit issues and move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bill and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. The Law on the Amendment to the Law on Higher Education and Laws (/943), Erzincan Legislators Karakelle and Serkan Bayram's Higher Education Institutions Act (2/2311), Justice and Development Party Group President Kayseri MP Mustafa Elitaş (/943), and 5 MPs' Higher Education Institutions Association Act (2/2313). The commission and the government are in place. The 95th Amendment, dated 3/5/2018, was held in the motion of Article 8 of Article 556, which was considered to be the main law under the 91st Amendment. Before you submit to your votes the motion of the last motion on the clause, Çanakkale MP Bkent Turan and his friends, the motion has been signed by Mr. Mehmet Doğan Kubat. Here you go, Mr. Kubat.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0084par0049	Mr. President, we have a motion in Article 8 of Law Proposal 556, which is currently in session. We had a request there to add the sign of the forest after the declaration of nurseship, in our motion, in the 26th joke. We demand and demand that he be presented after his declaration of engineering and amended in addition to the description of the forest. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0051	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0052	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0053	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0054	This issue, this has now become a verbal motion, it's not the right way, it's not the way. What are we doing?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0086par0055	Reduction...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0056	As a request for a rewrite.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0057	No, it's not a redaction, is it, Mr. President? It's not the right way. You talk to groups, there's one thing that makes sense, and you say, "Let's figure it out." We're trying to figure out something else, but with a verbal motion like this, we're expanding the ability to redact... we're changing names.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0058	Now, it's a matter written in your book, and in that sense, as the petitioner has signed his own motion, in this way...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0059	Mr. President, there is no such procedure. Look, there are ways to make a motion now; the motion is being increased, distributed, we all see. Then you can either talk about it, or you can get the alibi read, and it's over. Now, I've done it. If you open this road now, for example... there's no love writing in the court, there's no word for it somewhere else. This is a direct motion, a taste of the motion, and the way is clear. Without looking for a compromise with the groups about this, let's open the microphone from here, I've made a sehven, and that's how I change it. Well, that's how I vote. You don't have the authority, you can't do it, it's not true. You take a break from that, you call the group's vice presidents, friends tell them what they want, we sit down, see what happens, if there's any way that can be done through internal law through Internal Law, or there's no way to fix it, there's no way to talk about it, there's no way to fix it, there's no way to talk about it, there's no way to do it, there's no way to talk about it. There's no way to live like this. It's not right for you to do that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0061	Mr. Special, there is no subject that has completely changed the motion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0062	Mr. President, will you?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0063	Exactly. There's been a mistake in his writing, he's expressed it, and whoever did this has a motion. He puts it to a vote in this way, after all, it's by the General Assembly's discretion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0065	Mr. President, why don't you come to the groups and explain? It's not the General Assembly's discretion, look, it's not something like this: throw me out of the minaret and hold me down. If you open the way for this... what if there's a last-minute motion, why are the motions being printed and distributed? I see it. Entering the microphone now, not the expression of the word before, but these two words from here. There is no such thing. It's called a verbal motion. We don't have that kind of law. If you do so, it will be extremely abusive. I'm adding two words to a place where a decimal corresponds to billions, where a word gives freedom to people, or where they have another outcome, where the courts have been tried have changed... and I need to see it; pause, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's do it in order. There's no such procedure. If you open this, that's too bad, you'll make this coven useless.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0087par0066	The forest is one thing, the engineer is another!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0067	Now, I'm looking again. It's been processed here. It's in terms of Turkish harmony...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0068	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0083par0069	...and something that's done at the point of fixing something that shouldn't be added. Here's another subject that changes the content of the motion...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0070	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0088par0071	How do you correct the motions when you send them back to us?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0085par0072	Look, Mr. President, it's a way, it's a way. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow leads to something else. Give us a break, we'll talk about it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit03spe0089par0073	All right, Mr. Special, I'll take a five-minute recess on your insistence. Here you go, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit04spe0089par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will resume the talks of Law Proposal 556. The commission and the government are in place. İstanbul MP Mehmet Doğan Kubat and his friends had asked for an amendment on Article 8 of the article. The initial amendments to the motion have been distributed to groups following this request, which I consider overreduction authority. I submit this motion to your votes for the information of the groups: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 8th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0089par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 556 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. Members of parliament, I am renegotiating on Article 182 of Article 7 of the bill under the request of the government adopted in the previous session. The first statement on behalf of the groups who want to speak on the matter is for the Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Meral Danış Beştaş. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0090par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, there is already a very serious response to the bill and demands for the withdrawal of this bill, but as usual, the power has blocked its ears; it is also trying to move past this issue that concerns the lives of hundreds of thousands of students, the professors. Yes, the centralisation, marketing and staffing interference of AKP authorities towards higher education has moved to a new level with this bill. With this bill, the government aims to divide many universities. In the bill, the reason for the division of universities was actually unexplained, as part of the development of equipment in the area of higher education. There is no information that there is a decision on the division of universities, its planning, its institutional assessment. Again, the AKP wants to legalise its infrastructure without preparation, without fully revealing its necessity, without social agreement, by bringing an order for education, higher education into harmony with the way and methods. It is never acceptable for universities to be divided -- as Erdogan explains -- for a reason that there are too many students -- for which there is no response. There are many universities in the world that have a hundred thousand students. And there's no college example that's divided into too many students. On the other hand, if the only reason is because of the alleged number of students, why is it that many colleges, many students, are not divided? Universitys, such as Bologna, Padova, Paris, Oxford, Cambridge, Heidelberg universities, and El Ezher, which inspired them, have continued their existence and higher education and teaching functions for centuries with the same name and the same institutional identity. These and other universities have survived great economics, social and political revolutions, turmoil, changes we can call disaster, maintaining institutional structures and dignity. This arrangement is a coup to university autonomy. One of the most important elements of university autonomy is administrative autonomy. All university components have been doing activities and activities for days so that universities can't be divided. The government has blocked its ears to these democratic demands, which are against it, which do not pledge to it, and has put the TOMAs, the riot forces, the detention vehicles, in front of the universities to suppress these actions. University students and academics everywhere hold signature campaigns to withdraw the bill from my university. The AKP takes no note of young people who are directly affected by every level of education in the form of a Jacobin political intervention. HDP, our party is not against the creation of new universities. But it's not true that many universities in Turkey can't go beyond being sign universities, that higher education is quickly privatised and marketly abandoned, that the public, scientific, autonomous, democratic rights character is rapidly corroded, that the pressure on students, as the academic massacre took place at Boğaziçi University, should be increased every day, and that the creation of new universities in a environment where many universities are being pursued by certain capital groups, communities and cults, is still not true and it is not too late to be divided by a division of universities, and it is not too late. We're with the faculty, the students who opposed it. I'd like to share with the General Assembly these ideas, our thoughts, and our suggestions. Dear MPs, you know, there is an election on June 24th, and one of the presidential candidates, Mr. Milhattin Demirtaş, is still within four walls of Edirne Prison, and the hostage situation continues. We, his voice, as his breath, want to express his message from here to the citizens of Turkey on the first day we announced it, to share it. Yes, this is the message of Denizhattin Demirtaş, my dear friends and dear friends, I salute you from the heart. I think when this message is read to you, you'll be announcing me as the presidential candidate for a new life, a new hope, and a new future. First of all, I'd like to say I'm very honored that you've considered me worthy of this honorable mission. Even though I'm being held as a political hostage in an F-type cell, the fact that you believe that I can carry out this challenging mission has increased my burden. I give my deepest thanks to all our people and to my party, the HDP, who have trusted me in this process, believed in me, believed in me, his friendship, his solidarity, his support, for a moment. Despite all the pressures, threats, and attacks, this virtuous stance of millions of hearts beating with me has shown that a cell of 6 million people could not yet be invented. For a year and a half I've breathed with you in this cell and lived with you. I've tried to represent the values of freedom, democracy, equality, justice and peace here on your behalf. It has increased my responsibility to continue with your love and confidence, despite campaigns of defamation, slandering, and defamation against me almost continuously every day. And it is my duty to be worthy of your position, no matter the cost. I'll do everything I can to make sure of that. However, you can appreciate that my hand is significantly tied here. Now my hand and my arm and my voice and my breath are you, young men and women. There's no doubt it'll be a difficult and unfair campaign. What the bullies do is also a guarantee of what they'll do. But don't flinch, don't back down. You must go house to house, street to street, village to village day and night. You must tell everyone about the beauty of new life, not me. You have to tell me how good it would be to live together, in peace, brotherly and equal. You will calmly and calmly explain that HDP has the solution to the laborer's problem, the broken-down farmer's shop that closed down his shop without a job. You must show everyone that only we can heal the wounds of violent women, the plundered nature, the laid-off victims, the innocents locked up in prison. You have to convince them that they can only make up with us for the dishonors that have been destroyed, insulted every day, not taken as citizens, the Kurds, the Alevis, the Armenians, the Sunnis, the Circes, the Arabs, the Pomaks, the Roma, and so many others. Everyone should hear from you once more that we are the only ones who can pull this wheel out of the wheel of theft, plunder, corruption, rant and bribery. In this short campaign, everyone and everyone should be working on an active election. And from here, I'll try to support you in small ways. You'll see, we'll be the best surprise of the June 24th election. To those who ask, "Who will you support in the second round?" With great confidence, say: "We will support Demirtaş in the second round." So who are you going to support, and believe in it and let us do it? Don't forget to embrace our compatriots from all parties during the campaign. CHP, AKP, MHP, GOOD PARTY from Saadet Party to HUDA PARK, the voters of all parties are our brothers. Please do your best to end the polarization that turns social life into hell; this is more valuable to us than winning elections, never forget that. Never allow provocations. Prepare for the 24th of June victory in your most joyful, most enthusiastic form. We march to power with determination and conviction to build a life of trust, peace, prosperity, to move Turkey far ahead, and we demand 55 million voters to serve the entire 80 million; we rely on ourselves, our staff, we want everyone to be sure that we will build a great democracy together with the people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm at the end, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0091par0024	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0090par0025	Every political party government that stops us from standing next to us, pretends we don't exist, tries to throw us under the dam and crush us, will be embarrassed and embarrassed because of their attitude because the HDP you're trying to exclude and destroy has already made its greatest alliance with the oppressed people. There is now only one true alternative to two strange alliances; that is HDP. Godspeed, HDP. You are in the hands of the people, and our people are in the hands of God. And finally, I want to thank all of our people, our colleagues, all of those who have given me the honor of this mission, to all those who have expressed their support. Now I invite everyone to try hard and organize the chest and bring out the greatest hope of victory from the chest. We're gonna win, we're gonna win, believe it and we're gonna do it. On behalf of all my political friends in prison, I give you my deepest love and respect. ... [[X]] Salaamtin Demirtaş, Edirne Prison.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0092par0031	The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group, Mr. Ceyhun İrkil. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0093par0034	Mr. President, we're up against one of the recent laws of the AKP government, one of which is the classic method of law, one of which is to get off the hill. Unfortunately, some of the things that most of us don't know about, even the members of the Commission heard later and learned during the Commission, have already made serious changes to the moment they came to the Commission; as a result, serious changes have been made since the Commission; now serious changes are being made. This is the best proof that this law is not properly prepared, that it is not thought over, that the opinion of the parties is not taken. Guys, you can't just walk away from this... don't hurt the colleges. You know, all the universities, especially the ancient universities, such as Istanbul and Gazi University, students, professors, employees, have been standing up for days, and we've been trying to speak to you from here, and I see that none of you have heard or been affected by these screams. Guys, you can pass this by the number of votes, by the number of fingers, but this bill will not pass through the universities. After June 24th, when power changes, we will overthrow this bill and restore our universities to their former self. We're not against the creation of new universities, but if you could at least talk to the administrators of these universities, students, parties, families, graduates of these universities. Because of the serious losses and the loss of savings, but most importantly, these universities will bring serious losses in some of the world's gains, causing these losses to be settled permanently, and with those changes of name or the division of universities, the faculty to lose their identities and those savings to disappear. So we expect you again to reconsider this college bill, withdraw it, sit down with all the parties after the election, and think, and do a human, legal, conscientious, scientific study. You're just saying that you're dividing it for a numerical reason, but there are places that are very low. And that's why when you're combining cities, you're closing cities and you're gathering them in the city, so you're not looking at the population, you're trying to put them together, but right now you're showing this inconsistency for the number of universities. Besides, you might think about dividing universities dynamically, or there might be some study to do about it, but not by changing the university's name, destroying his identity, his history. Remember, in the Roman Empire, there was a punishment to erase people's names from history. This is officially a punishment for erasing history. At the moment, İstanbul Forestry Faculty remains inside the İstanbul University of Surgery, which is founded as a theme university in Hasan Ali Yücel. We've said it many times, we've said it in the Commission, and all the members of the Commission have agreed in the Commission, and they say, "Right, let's change it, let's fix it." When it comes to the General Assembly, he comes to the General Assembly, and they object again. Here they are, saying, "No, you're lying." Now they're saying, "We're going to fix this later, by the decision of the Council of Ministers." How can we trust you, my friends?" Besides, what makes you think you're coming? How do you know it's going to be your Council of Ministers? So, the withdrawal of this bill, the Istanbul Hasan Ali Yücel and İstanbul Forestry Faculty, the Istanbul Engineering Faculty, if you're going to divide this university with a numerical majority, would be a historic mistake if it was left in Surgery, because on one side, there's a theme college that's all set up in the form of health schools and health colleges, and you're putting in a hundred and sixty years of Forest School. In the same way, there are problems at the Gazide, as well as at the University of Anatolia. As a matter of fact, I'd like to read you a brief note from here that the students of Anadolu University have sent us. They say: "Did you ever ask us?" The law, which is still under discussion in parliament, prepared for the establishment of 20 universities, including our university, was submitted at midnight as a motion for the establishment of 16 universities, and was adopted at the Commission. And in the academic sense, and we are in the face of this decision, which has no use for students, so-called colleges, which increase the number of colleges, and actually evacuates education, which is imposed on students, academics. We will not allow our major efforts to attract our universities with political interests and zoning sites. This decision, taken without asking us, will take away many of the rights we've earned. Scientific research will be restricted because academic research and their projects will not find financial and spiritual support. Projects that can't find a job or work for graduates will not get enough support. No classrooms, no labs, no necessary equipment. All the decontaminations will go to waste. The safety of students in school education and living environments and the labs will be at risk because they will not have sufficient infrastructure. Social areas such as the mess hall, the library, the pool, the disabled unit, the gym will not be provided for years at least in the first place. For only one lira, three meals a day, such as soup service in the library, and privileges will remain in our memories. We don't approve of these rights being taken away from us, and we don't approve of this decision. This decision may pass through the House, but it does not pass through universities or students. We will continue to resist those who try to take away our rights and defend the scientific and free academy. Guys, that's what all college students want. Come, don't do this before the election. These universities have hundreds of thousands of graduates. You're breaking these people's hearts for no reason. You're hurting them. This is not the time for evil, not the place. Come on, let's discuss this again. How is it that you all agree with us in the lobby, and yet you can come in here and lift your finger on the contrary, and I find that hard to understand? Even though we all agreed on a certain issue in the commission, only the Commission can change the decision, or he can't pass it. So are they elected or have they been appointed... so we'd like the High Assembly, the Commission, the Ministry and the NGO to reconsider this decision... and to insist that this bill, in particular, be withdrawn... through Rant, the Republic's reckoning, the staffing and the Chancellor's negotiations. Friends, other than that, I ask you once again for your sensitivity to the Hasan Ali Yücel School of Education and the Forest School because the Forest School is the first and most radical faculty of Istanbul University, over a hundred and sixty years old. In addition, the withdrawal of İstanbul University's Forest School, Engineering Faculty and (HAYEF) Faculty of Education, Hasan Ali Yücel, from İstanbul University, will cause İstanbul University to fall from the top 500 rankings in the world. So it's just one of the few universities that are now entering the first 500, Istanbul University. Come on, let's not do this evil thing, let's not go down on our colleges for no reason. At least, if you're going to pass through here, let's leave the Istanbul University Forest School, Engineering Faculty and (HAYEF), Hasan Ali Yücel Education Faculty back inside İstanbul University; the second university you've founded called Istanbul University Surgerypaşa is already only medical school, health sciences, nursery, dental and medicine. What's the jungle school doing in these? I mean, why can't we do this here when you've all come to terms with it? This is the People's Assembly, isn't it? Aren't the decisions made here? Or are the decisions taken elsewhere and dictated here? I'm simply drawing the attention of the entire Supreme Assembly from this point of view. Listen to the voice of Istanbul University, Gazi University, Anadolu University. Otherwise, I invite the graduates of these universities, faculty, students, to give you the answer on June 24th, and then, after June 24th, I invite them to follow it. If this false law, this unjust, illegal law, is passed, if it is insisted, even if it passes through the House, even if the President signs it, it will not pass through universities, students. So, again, thank you all, and I expect your sensitivity to this.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0094par0047	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0095par0048	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0094par0049	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0095par0052	Mr. Secretary, we'd like to give you an update and clarify our position on this matter as well as yours. You know, the Central Council of the Union of Turkish Medical Medicine issued a declaration, they were detained for seven days, then released. The Chief Inspector of Health has filed a report for two members of the Central Council of TTB, family physicians, offering the annulment of family medicine contracts, never to return to public service, and this was in front of the Minister. You know, the efforts of trade organisations include, in a universal sense, unionists not being expelled for their union duties, not being harmed for their work, not being replaced. It is not acceptable for these two to try to be banned from the state office by an administrative decision, which is already in place of the central council of TTB, which is already in session -- if there is a flaw in the matter the court will decide. We bring this to the attention of both your government and the public. A decision that can be made on this matter will make the democratic and principled approaches of the already very troubled State of Emergency in Turkey very controversial. We demand that your knowledge, your attention and the matter be brought to the agenda of the government.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0094par0054	Thank you. Kayseri MP Yusuf Halaçoglu will now speak on behalf of the ruling PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Halaçoglu.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0096par0060	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, after last week, I thought the college disintegration would be delayed, but it's really interesting that it's been brought back to the agenda. Now, I entered Istanbul University in 1967 and graduated from İstanbul University in 1970-1971. Such long - term universities, unfortunately, were once subjected to a scythe with the SEC, and now they're trying to be shaped in pieces. Dear lawmakers, in fact, today in Turkey, I believe, there is a number of university structures, some of which are past 180, some of which are foundation universities, private universities. Colleges are all over the place, but have you actually gone and tested them? Are there enough faculty? What quality training is being done? Look, believe me when I tell you that people who graduated from college, who graduated from many universities, who left high school in Japan, are about the same level of education as those who left high school in Japan. Now the place you call college has to have a very different structure. It's not supposed to be a high school graduate, but it's supposed to be in a structure that breeds sidewalk engineers in the country. Colleges should have educational units that shed light on the future of the country, on its development. But if we're just going to talk about Istanbul University, what do you intend to do about taking Surgery, a few of them, into a separate space? What do you think you're going to change, do you think you're going to teach more quality? In fact, quality depends more on the quality of the professor than on the number of universities. Why do you make a different way of putting a university like Istanbul University, an old but classical university, like Istanbul University, into the system, where you've sometimes established what's called a university that's been known as a university that's been going on since the Conqueror era, that's not done in England in Oxford, Cambridge, Harvard, Harvard? Instead, if you have to build a new university instead of tearing down Istanbul University, you have to do this: a university is not just a building; it is measured by the quality of the faculty that you put in the building, it's measured by the quality of the university. First of all, in classical universities like this, you get PhDs at major colleges, you get your new colleges, and then you get your Ph.D.s there, and then you transfer them to new universities, so you put together a quality education system. But what do you think you've changed by saying "Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa" or "Istanbul Gererpaşa University" to the University of Istanbul, so what do you think you're going to bring? First, explain this to me. Please come out here. There's no point in that. You're just going to bring a chancellor to his head, you're going to bring some executives, people who are your allies may be involved, but you're doing the biggest damage to Turkey. Because, like I just said, you have to put in a new set of staff to get a university into college. Many unsatisfactory subjects lack faculty. Look, in many of our universities today, Gazi University -- I'm telling you what's in Ankara -- there are a lot of professors missing from our major universities, like Ankara University, because you don't give out staffs, you don't give out assistants. And then, look, I want to say something else: we prepared a thesis to become professors. I'm a professor of the professor's thesis. So besides the doctoral thesis, we'd also do a professor's thesis, because the difference was with the doctor: The doctoral thesis is a thesis with a consultant, which is actually a face-blower or a black sheep, but the professorship is not just a thesis on a subject that you're doing without counseling. Thus, one becomes a professor by proving his own age. So that you can raise an old professor, a scientist, and give it to the country. Because new information to be presented with a professor's thesis is purely original information, so you can make colleges more qualified. But now you're not making colleges look good by tearing up colleges, you're also disrupting your classic, established order by making universities into lumps. Now, think of it this way: In the past, when a doctoral jury was identified in universities, the Senate of the university would be interviewed, and the doctoral jury would be identified from the two universities, all three of them being from the university. Now, the person tells the SEC what he wants, and then the jury is determined. You guys, if you're going to fix this, if you want to start a high-end college, you do that, you're going to raise college students, and then you're going to start colleges, and you're going to put them in colleges. But as we can see, you don't plan either, you don't determine how many graduates you need in college, you start a bunch of unemployed college graduates. I take it as normal because what you call dyploma will work if it's quality, but whether you have a degree or not, if you can't get that quality, you won't serve the country either. My respects to all of you. But I repeat, please, give up this love, and at least we'll take it again after June 24th. Look, you're losing votes with this, and I'll tell you that. Come, please leave this bill to the new governments after June 24th to serve both our universities and our country. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0097par0070	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0098par0074	Mr. President, today is the photojournalists' Association's Press Photos of the Year 2018 awards ceremony. We're all invited to this award ceremony, but because of the General Assembly's work, we won't be able to attend this award ceremony which will begin shortly. But we're sorry that we can't be there on such an important day and in such a work by a professional group that is very important to politics and who are working very hard for us. I'd also like to say that in the press photo of the award-winning year, we're very pleased as the Republican People's Party to have a shot of our Mr. President's historic justice march.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0097par0076	Thank you. The first word for the individuals belongs to İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0099par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Members of lawmakers, last Thursday we tried to tell you with examples that this division would really be of no use to anyone, with one-on-one events. Today, I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary and all of our friends at the General Assembly about a book, Macit Uzel. Macit teacher is a professor of orthopedics and graduated from İstanbul University of Gerarpaşa; he has made his entire university into a book and passed it on to generations after him. He says: "I have served for years as a professor of the Faculty of Surgery and Medicine at İstanbul University, but after this stage, if this law passes, the University of İstanbul will continue under another name, not as the Faculty of Surgery, but as the Faculty of Surgery at the University of Surgery, and there will not be such a thing in the archives or international archives. There are at least ten such examples. I only brought one to share with you. Thousands of students from İstanbul University's Faculty of Surgerypaşa Medical met and applied to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with the signature of this teacher and his son, who was a professor at that university. I wonder if they've read this application to the Minister's Motion Commission. Because in the spirit of lawmaking, there's already a meeting with his contacts, taking their thoughts. Unfortunately, during the AKP's reign, this was overcome, and it was abandoned. But when the law comes out, when you talk to them, you add to the law, you subtract it, you take out the last form fully formed. Unfortunately, with this change, we've seen it happen once again, lawmakers. And right now, as is in that text in the Willing Commission, none of them want to give up that identity from the patient of the İstanbul University Faculty of Surgery to the professor of Medicine, from the student to the other employees. Why do you insist on this? If we're going to compete with the division and they're going to improve with division. If you say -- we've given examples in the past -- then why did you combine the Ministry of Culture and Tourism with each other and make it single? When you came to power, there were 37 ministries, and you reduced them to 25. Now, if we keep going, we'll reduce it to 15. You say. On the one hand, you combine your own practices, but when it comes to Istanbul University, universities, they get bigger. So, if it's possible to divide by growth, the Justice and Development Party has about 40 per cent of the vote, divide by two, enter 20-20, then rise 30 to 30, and you've found 60 per cent. Does that make any sense? No. But then why are you applying this to colleges? At Gazi University, particularly Gerazipaşa, at the University of Inönu, all professors show that this division will undermine the university's identity. We listened carefully, and no member of the ruling wing has ever shown up to defend this law properly. Only one MP came out, and he said, "It's a competition." He said, "It's a competition." If you really believe that this will benefit you, but if you are listening to the students, listening to the faculty, even letting us go, you will find that even those appointed to be rectors of your administration at Istanbul University, you will see that they say, "Don't do this." At the latest, Yunus Tellit, who was appointed chancellor during AKP power, says, "Don't do this." He says, "It's no use to college." Most of the professors in these universities are able to carry out their duties, their duties with much better opportunities at other universities or foundations universities, but because they have found themselves in this university, in that institutional identity, there is a root -- as I showed you here -- a legacy, because they see it as an inheritance. Come, the road is not over yet, withdraw this law. Where in Anatolia will you start a university -- we will support -- increase the faculty, but I say protect these four schools, Istanbul University, Gazi University, Inönu and Anadolu University with their own identity. Please, withdraw this law. I say that division in universities will actually bring the erosion there, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0100par0090	Thank you. The second word for the individuals belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Şaltağ. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0101par0094	My friends offered to divide this model, but I couldn't spare the model, so you're taking it to a whole historical college. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Today the students came to the House to announce their voices, and they all shouted together, "Don't touch our universities, withdraw the bill." Unfortunately, you keep not hearing them. Those students came in today, tried to make a press statement outside the door, the police tried to intervene outside the door. Glitter, young students, students who entered those universities with the highest scores came from the Black Sea Technical University, Inönu University, Anadolu University, İstanbul University, and you insist that you do not hear them. I've told you before, you've divided it in 16 years, you've divided it, but you've combined this whole Turkish division bill with you, and I don't know what you're hoping to do about it, but whatever comes out of the President's mouth, you repeat that name. Last time, the President's words came out of the mouth of Istanbul's University of Surgery, where he tried to pass such a suggestion. At the Istanbul Convention at the weekend, he said, "Istanbul University Surgerypaşa" and that's how you changed the motion today. In the meantime, I suggest you open it up, ask the President, bring this bill according to what he says last, and don't keep changing it all the time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You're fucked on the road. That's what we do like Turkishmen caravans. You say when the migration is fucked on the road, you stay on the road like Arab Bedouins, and you leave colleges on the road. Don't kill colleges; colleges, science nests, colleges, the future of our young people, our country, and engineers there, the doctors there, the doctors you're going to need. We're going to try a new model. You couldn't find any other place, but you're using a six-hundred-year-old college for this model trial disease. Go open new universities, put up new signs, open little buildings, sign universities, but don't play with the roots of these old universities. The quality of universities is important, and it's important how many of the first 500 colleges he's published, how many professors have been referred to, and you're going to split those references in half, and you're going to throw these two colleges for the first 5,000, and you're not going to allow our kids to study and finish their proper schools in this college that they've earned. These universities are the memory of Turkey, but you don't want universities to live, universities to criticize, universities to question young people, but I assure you, students are questioning, young people are questioning. What do these people want from our university? Many of those college students who voted for your party came here today and rebelled here. You insist on not hearing their rebellion. You think you're gonna break up these colleges, throw them out of the cities, and shut the kids up? Now the age has changed, and even though people are at the top of the mountain, the university continues to rub your objections and wrongs in your face, and I assure you, they will. You're just throwing out colleges, you're throwing out hospitals out of town. Throw away the people who might have. Are those people going all the way across town to get health care? And ye carry the Pissed Etphal Hospital unto the Meadowmaster, and send it all the way unto Sarıyer. You sent Taxi First Aid to Gaziosmanpaşa, and you have no right to sentence people here to a bunch of aide university hospitals in the center of the city and a bunch of aide hospitals. And you followed Mehmet Akif Ersoy's school, his first agricultural school, to a university of his own. After that, you took 1,000 acres from the University of Marmara and gave them to build malls and residences, and you took away the schools that the students were going to study, and you tried to throw them out of the city again. Again, you tried to throw them back into the Silivri. If you're going to build a new university for Silivri, let's be together, let's make a new university, but don't interrupt, don't interrupt, don't interrupt, don't interrupt, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide, don't divide universities that's so radically, so internationally. I salute you, General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0102par0107	Thank you. Talks on matter are complete. Now, we're going to do the QA in ten minutes. I'll give the MPs who have entered the system time to ask questions for five minutes, and I'll give the Minister the remaining five minutes to answer them. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0103par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it's a fact that there's a lack of faculty at universities, and so is school. Do you at least have a study to reassign the suspended professors to cover this gap? In the same way, do you have a study for thousands of students who are unfairly unlawfully cut off from college? And in health -- we get dozens of phone calls, messages every day -- is there a government study for about 1,000 health workers waiting for security investigations?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0102par0113	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0104par0114	Mr. Secretary, the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk has set an example of the modern world and has asked teachers to raise the idea free, free of conscience, free of knowledge, new generations. Our teachers in Turkey are also progressing despite all difficulties, but as we all know, our teachers are under great pressure financially and spiritually. First of all, teachers with appointment problems face financial impossibilities after becoming teachers. Every November 24th, teachers who raise our children must be paid a salary bonus, as well as additional tuition fees, which must cover all education workers, and the allowance must be at least a salary. 3600 additional indicators should definitely be given to teachers. In addition, the problem of appointing teachers melting before our eyes must end. The teacher's deficit in Turkey must not be bypassed by the subcontractor system. Our young people should no longer be dragged into a deep depression. The plague of all teachers waiting for the appointment is on all of us.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0102par0115	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0105par0116	Ayþe teacher is being sent back to prison, and unfortunately, we are in a country where our teachers are sent to prison for saying, "Don't let the children die for peace." The president of the Medical Association, Rachit Tükel, is unfortunately not head of Istanbul University today. If he were head of Istanbul University, you wouldn't be able to create this division, you wouldn't be able to divide it. But what are you doing? He will not be a civil servant for the rest of his life. War is a public health issue. War will continue to be a crime all over the world and at all times in history, and it will continue to be a public health issue. As physicians, don't expect us to make a word out of it; we can't possibly admit it. War is a public health issue.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0106par0119	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0107par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, today, the draft law on the division of universities or the establishment of new universities came back on the agenda, and the 7th article that we had passed has been re-interviewed, and when we looked at the motion, Mr. Secretary, the name has been changed to the University of Istanbul-Cerrahpaşa. That was a parentheses last week, a hyphenate this week. Here, yes, there's going to be a change in major universities, the need for the day, but we see again today how right we are to go through a participant process and not be done in a real hurry. Here's a new faculty of economics in college, like the business faculty, Mr. Secretary. When we look at it, these universities have a fundamental reason for being digitally too large in terms of the number of students, but a new faculty is being added here again. I'd like to rephrase how reasonable this is for you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0108par0123	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0109par0124	There's a bill for the configuration of the 557 rows. Couldn't you have prepared a bill for what you were going to give me? You have to explain to our citizens that despite the fact that it is in the power party's power party to solve the problems of our people who have run out of days and years of retirement, who have no premiums, who live on wages under the age of hunger, who have no food, who can't wait for a pension and who can't retire because they're not old, even though it's in the hands of a law, you have to stop being insensitive to the fact that pensioners are the problems of their age. Does it have anything to do with logic, logic, waiting for you to be old when the insurance day is over? Come on out and tell me. We have nothing to do with what is to be paid, but we have nothing to do with what is to be given. Go out and tell the people again. On the other hand, the construction of our farmers' debts has no place in this bag of legislation. Our farmers are in debt on a large scale, and we'd like you to bring their debt structured with this bag of legislation.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0108par0125	Thank you. Finally, I leave the word to our Minister of National Education, Mr. Ismet Yilmaz, to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0110par0128	Thank you, Reverend President. First of all, under Article 33 (a) of the Teacher's Education Programme, a new law proposal for those who have not been reassigned according to Article 30, according to Article 30 (a), has been assigned to the staff of researchers and are considered to be transformed into status of Article 50 (d) of Article 50 (d). We'll make an addition to that law. That's the first thing. Second, do we consider student forgiveness? Yes, we do. The student pardon has passed through the commission, will come to the General Assembly, and will be presented again to the High General Assembly's discretion. 500,000 students and around 170,000 students in the Open School will benefit from this pardon. Our number of teachers was around 50,000 in 2002, now over 158,000. So, there's a lot of progress compared to the past. Our number of universities was 76, and now we have 187 universities. Our whole goal, we want full independence, is to have qualified knowledge and qualified scientist. It's our universities that will produce quality information and raise qualified scientists. So we want our universities to have a structure system that can compete internationally. That's why we budgeted it first. Compared to 2002, we've earmarked 27 billion and 761 million dollars for higher education, 20.61 per cent of our total education budget. The number of students is more than 7,500,000, whereas earlier it was 1,600 thousand. We've actually managed to grow digitally, and now we're doing studies to build higher education in quality and quality. We've identified research universities, brought a regional development-oriented mission differentiation, and we've created universities about it. We've established the Board of Education Programmes Advisory Board and the Co-ordinating Board of vocational schools. We've brought in the post-doctoral investigative employment. As a professor at higher education institutions, we have opened the way for those who want to work for six years and do RDs -- whether they are abroad or abroad -- to be granted a year's paid leave. We've made it possible for a state-of-the-art transfer office with capital company status. We've created a way to grant students a scholarship to graduate degrees and PhDs who will be assigned to scientific research projects. We supported high school students in organised industrial areas, and now we've decided to support students who go to vocational institutes in organised industrial areas, and we've passed the law together. Turkey's average of age has grown to 78, pensioners in 65 are getting young pensioners, and now they are allowed to work at the university until they are 75 years old. From now on, we will do the work we need to do to improve quality in the higher education system. Due to the security investigation, a thousand of the medical staff have yet to be appointed. We're not even getting 20,000 teachers, 25,000 teachers, 1,000, 2,000, 3,000, 20, 30, 40. So, due to the security investigation, there's waiting in all state agencies, so we can only speed it up. We're working to raise a generation of free ideas, free knowledge, free conscience, who have embraced their local values, and who are open to universal values, competing with their age. We're in a good spot compared to yesterday, we've appointed 544,000 teachers. I was in Şırnak yesterday, Cizrede. Almost every teacher I asked in the teachers' lounge was a newly appointed teacher. In 2002, these teachers received £635 a week, along with 15 extra hours a week. So I asked my new teacher, how much is your monthly salary? She said, "I'm getting $33,000 and 500 from the extra class, $3,500." Look, for God's sake, from 600 to 3,500 lira, five times, six times. That $635 isn't even $400, it's $378. Now? Now when you say $3,500, it's probably over $900. We've raised more than 100 percent on the dollar base. The teaching grant was $175, so we raised it to a thousand. Again, the name of İstanbul University of Istanbul, Surgeonpaşa... we all submitted the motion together at İstanbul Surgeonpaşa University... we gave it together but we wanted to do it in the participant process, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last sentence, Reverend President, is my last sentence.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0111par0139	Complete, please. Mr. Danış Beştaş is also making a motion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0110par0141	The professors, professors at İstanbul University, have proposed that the name of İstanbul University is a value to them, and therefore that it should be protected, since they offered to be given a name after Istanbul University, we took into account their proposal and brought this change to the presence of the High Assembly. Therefore, consultation is our principle, and it is said that if you go by consultation, you will find the truth; that is our faith, and that is what we do. This change is the result of that consultation. We've done it, that's your name. We never said it. If we said that, we'd stand by the motion we made together. Again, I salute the grand jury.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0112par0144	Thank you. Now there are three motions on the 7th Article 182, two of which are the same property, and I'm reading the motions: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose the removal of Article 182 of Article 7 of Law Bill 556, which is currently in session. Free Special Ceyhun İrgil Ali Candy Zülfikar Inönu Diary Ali Akyıldı The signatures of the other motion are: Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Behcet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0113par0160	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0112par0161	Mr Mustafa Ali Balbay will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0114par0164	Members of parliament, Mr. Secretary of State has come to a certain point. In fact, he would have given up if we'd had another week because he left first as Ibn Sina University of Istanbul, one. Two were the faculty that was scheduled to transfer to Istanbul University as Ibni Sinai as a medical school. When the anchor was pulled away by extraordinary effort, they said, "Let's give it to Surgery." Now that Cerrahpaşa has left, there is no Ibn Sina Gerarpaşa. So let's at least find a name from Istanbul University that will satisfy those applicants to a degree. They said, "Istanibul Gererpaşa University, let it be the Faculty of Surgery." They came to this point. Mr. Minister himself, indeed, is open to dialogue, and we don't have any complaints in that way, but if he had just discussed these changes a little bit more, for example today, with the students Dear Ali Candy, he would have said, "Let's take steps about new universities if all the faculty had looked at the six-point reasons why they're all against it." Congressmans, Mr. Minister, as Minister of 6th National Education for this period of power, we are open to institutions. But when we look at the changes that have been made so far, we see that many of the changes have been changed over again, many of the previous practices have been abandoned. Public opinion polls on how realistic an online statement is today also yielded results. I suggest to Mr. Secretary that in his recent statement, we make the largest contribution to the Ministry of Education on the European scale, the largest budget increase. And I'm sure that the website, known by the public as the Payi of Truth, which many of you have looked at from time to time, revealed that Mr. Minister was not telling the truth, and that his information did not reflect the truth. We'd like a statement from Mr. Secretary on that, too. Congressmans, for example, you're raising these children. As I come to the point, I like to emphasize that if you think about a year from now, plant seed, ten years from now, if you think about a hundred years from now, train the community. For example, in 2005, you've got this important subject, for example, you're going to have to write the written hand. For example, don't do it. The psychologists said: "Eh, these children can't learn the handwriting in this way. Then what happened? Twelve years later, you said, "Hey, this didn't happen, let's change, let's go back." Is this the consultation? Now, the last time, students were going to take the university exam on June 24th, you postponed it a week, but only this year the students are going to take the university exams -- Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, please reconsider once more, imagine that a child will take the test. A college student found out the test changed nine months before the exam this year, found out that the date had also entered the exam eight months before, learned that the test had been increased by seven months, that the way the test scores had been calculated had changed by four months, and that the test date had changed by two months. Is this a consultation, this is a mutual decision? Again, these children -- a student at Istanbul University or Gazi University -- found out that when a college student entered high school, he had changed his way into high school, got used to the new system, learned that the test system had changed once again in the 2nd grade, learned that in high school the entrance exams had changed, and now he's going to find out that the university's name has changed. Congressmans, I mean, how is that a judgment? The area you've played the most, the most, the most you've ever turned into a sabbatical is education. Again, we have launched a major project in public. Is there any work from the FATIH Project that you started today? I'd like an explanation from the Minister as well. The FATIH Project was to be implemented for eight years, and now it's been abandoned. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror conquered Istanbul in two months, he should have conquered it 40 times by now. I swear Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror wouldn't have voted for you if he'd seen June 24th, he would have chased you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0115par0172	Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. I want to enlighten Parliament about something. Right now the world is talking about a Twitter language: OK. I don't know if you've heard of it. In case you haven't heard, I'll share. In a speech today, the President said: "One day our nation will say OK. We will pull aside only then. On this word, I think the final number is 600 thousand" on the world's TT list. In the international area, the whole world is talking about how much it wants Erdogan to go, and how he said, not in such a long period of time, but in a three-hour period -- how it is done.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0117par0177	It's not unknown that the world is against us, including you. It's what 81 million says, not the world, 81 million.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0118par0178	We got 35 million votes, 35 million.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0179	Yes, we say to Erdogan that you really are our nation. You said, "We will withdraw." You said, "All right." We say, "All right. All right." All right. All right. It's really the people's suffering, it's enough. It says, "It's okay." We say, "It's okay." We say, "It's okay."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0117par0180	That's for the PKK people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0118par0181	I'll see you on June 24th.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0182	We say it's time to step aside, you're really tired. If you're not tired of watching yourself on every channel every day, if you're not tired, these people are tired. No matter what channel we turn on, we're tired and tired of seeing you in front of us, and so are the people. The people are really saying, "Don't wave your fingers at us every day on TV, okay, step aside, it's time for your retirement."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0117par0183	Find out if you don't know if that finger is swinging at the traitors or the PKK people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0119par0184	That's for people to decide, people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0185	We call it OK. We call it OK. It's true on June 24th, there's an election, there's a dominant election, but we're saying that it's a long way from June 24th, so you don't have to travel to county conventions, you don't have to go to county conventions, you don't have to sleep for two or three hours at night. This life happens once, once a man is born, lives and dies; enough, alas for you, it's done.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0117par0186	We're on the field all the time, we don't have to do it anyway, we're on the field all the time.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0187	There are really amazing creative messages on Twitter right now, and there are so many creative messages that I wish he could read and share them all from here. But we didn't say that...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0120par0188	Twitter told me.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0189	Erdogan himself said so, but my people said that I would step aside. If you want, we can choose tomorrow. We don't need 50 days. Come on, let's set up what they think is in your hands anyway, and let's do it today. Let the people who say "OK." Tomorrow say "OK."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0121par0190	How many times have people told you okay? You're still there.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0191	Yes, dear lawmakers, the public says, "All right. I don't want to suffer poverty, so I'm done," he says, for the release of imprisoned politicians. I'm tired of unemployment, I'm tired of looking for work every day, he calls it OK. Women say: "I am tired of being abused, harassed, and raped every day. Let this end, so it is done." The business world says you don't have to distribute more profits to your associates, you don't have to distribute money, all right, back off, everybody take advantage of equal rates. Those who live in Cizre say, "We have not yet buried the bodies of our children whom you burned in the basements, so move away, so that we may have our funerals." He says, "Go." He says, "Go." He says, "We don't want you. We don't want you."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0122par0192	What's everybody saying, people?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0193	What's everyone gonna say, people?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0194	There are so many reasons for you to leave, it's not here, it's not five minutes, it's not enough hours. Right now...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0195	You're not going to say okay. People are going to say okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0196	Right now in prisons, watching what's going on in Turkey all over the world, we say with a loud voice: don't wait for June 24th, get out today.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0197	The world says OK. But the Turkish people say yes. Know that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0198	We always say, "Okay." We always say, "Okay."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0199	The Turkish people say "Yes." The Turkish nation says "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0200	We're sure, it's final!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0201	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0202	We're sure, it's final!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0203	In all the elections, he told you no.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0124par0204	Don't interfere, lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0205	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0206	He didn't say okay. He didn't say okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0207	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0125par0208	Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0209	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0210	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0211	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0126par0212	Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0213	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0214	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0215	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0217	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0127par0218	Mr. Tamer...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0219	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0220	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0221	Okay, okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0222	The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0116par0223	Okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0128par0224	Let's go...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0225	The Turkish people say, "Yes." They say, "Keep going."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0128par0226	Let's go...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0129par0227	Okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0228	We'll see on June 24th, OK. We'll see.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0129par0229	Okay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0123par0230	Keep going, okay? The Turkish people say, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0130par0231	Yeah, okay. Keep going with it. June 24th is coming, I hope everyone sees it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0131par0232	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0130par0233	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0132par0234	The terrorist is okay, the HDP is OK. He says, "All right, the traitor is OK." He says, "All right."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0130par0235	Congressmans, please don't interfere. His word makes a request, and if it's appropriate, if the Civil Code allows it, we promise, but if it's not, then you'll have to forgive me. Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0133par0239	Mr. President, thank you. I'm sure Mr. Beştaş will say okay on June 24th, he won't vote differently.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0134par0241	The world doesn't want to.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0135par0242	It's not the world, it's Turkey, it's all from Turkey!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0133par0243	In 2014, Mr. Beştaş said, OK. In 2011 he said, OK. He said, OK. In 2007 he said, OK.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0136par0244	It's all right now!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0133par0245	It doesn't matter if Mr. Bestaş says OK.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0137par0246	It's the people!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0133par0247	The important thing is, here, this nation, this nation, the will of the people who live in this country, what they say. Mr. Beştaş always said, "All right." People always said, "Keep going, Mr. Erdogan."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0138par0249	I'll tell you what, Mr. Erdogan. Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0133par0250	Now, we'll see on June 24th. No one has to talk to this nation through telepathic powers, through each and every one of them, as if they represent the nation.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0139par0252	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0140par0253	Look, you said okay. You said okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0141par0255	Okay. You said it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0142par0256	He said, "Let's get it done." He didn't say, "Okay."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0143par0257	When I said complete, I kept going. You didn't see him either, did you? We're moving on. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0144par0260	There is a reality, beyond all these speculations and words, the charismatic leader of Turkey's politics for 16 years is Mr. Erdogan, the most spoken about Turkish politics. A number of messages were sent to Twitter in front of Mr. Erdoğan. If Mr. Bestaş had looked at Twitter, he would have seen that many messages were sent in his favor.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0145par0261	Ten thousand, ten thousand. 500,000, 600,000, 10K.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0146par0262	600, 10 thousand.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0144par0263	In his favor -- I'm telling you -- the voters point to a line, a policy, a program. The speakers don't have a program in common; they each have their own song and their own story. On June 24th, the majority of this nation will say again to Mr. Bestaş, as Mr. Beştaş said, "Okay." He will say to Mr. Erdoğan again.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0145par0265	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0147par0266	Wait a second, I'll give you my word. First, I submit these same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0148par0268	We want the number of decisions we need.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0147par0269	Did you ask for a sufficient number of decisions?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0148par0270	We can if you want. I think you should promise him that he has the right to...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0147par0271	Don't ask for the number of decisions, I promise.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0148par0272	No, no, no negotiating.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0149par0273	That's different, that's different.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0148par0274	There's no bargaining, no discounts, no discounts for democracy.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0150par0275	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0151par0276	In his speech, Mr. Bostançi clearly taunted me as if he was representing the militia. I want a promise from the bullying.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0152par0277	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0150par0278	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0152par0279	It's like he's having a telepathic relationship with the nation and he's representing their opinion. I said, "If not everyone else...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0150par0280	Yeah, different things. I'll give you my word on your position according to the 60, and I'll keep you going, so be at ease and be at ease.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0153par0281	No, it's obviously teasing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0150par0282	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0153par0284	I have the authority to speak for the people, I have the authority from the people, so I'm here in Parliament as he is. So, of course, I have the right to speak on behalf of the people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0154par0285	You can't represent everyone, you don't represent the whole nation.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0153par0286	We've learned from his words that the trolls really don't know yet, because I mean, the trolls are going to move now, but no matter how far they go, they're not going to be able to cover 600 to 10,000.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0155par0287	Get back on the agenda, get back on the agenda.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0156par0288	Look at the bottom of the chest, look at the chest, look at the trunk, it's not Twitter.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0153par0289	This 600,000 will find millions later on. And we're actually saying this here -- on June 24th, that's okay. The floods are going to get bigger, and this power is going to go away, and we're going to say good-bye, bye, bye.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0157par0290	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0158par0291	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0157par0293	Mr. President, of course, such discussions are being carefully monitored by all our people, with the excitement of the upcoming elections. Politics is a claim. Today Mr. Erdogan said, "Okay. If they say, I'll go."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0159par0294	And that's the greatest proof that you're not a dictator, you know?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0160par0295	But it's not yours, it's yours. It's yours all the time.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0157par0296	And that was the most talked about in the world today, with 600,000 of them thrown out of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0161par0297	It means he's not the only man.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0162par0298	The greatest proof that you're not a dictator is to pull yourself together. What you're saying and what you're saying on that stand is a contradiction, an oxymoron.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0163par0299	Easy, fellas, please...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0164par0300	The panic of friends is based on two reasons; one of them thought for a moment and for a moment about the sudden outburst of this issue; we know that a few of you will sit in this corner, but after 24 June, the representatives of the nation's Republican People's Party and the National Alliance will sit there, okay, friends?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0162par0302	We heard those words a lot before November 1st.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0164par0303	Okay, guys? All right, guys?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0165par0305	Friends, members of lawmakers, they don't call it "Twitter chirping" for nothing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0166par0306	You guys are chirping.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0167par0307	But Twitter's good when it's in the AKP's favor, right?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0165par0308	It's not for any of us to get up and decide here on Twitter. The Word and decision are in the hands of the people. To whom the people will say OK. To whom will they be done? To whom shall they go on. Please, let's not put a mortgage on people's will.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0168par0309	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0165par0310	May we all see that on June 24th.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0169par0311	As always.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0170par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0165par0313	Here you go, Mr. Botanci.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0170par0314	It's the nation that decides in Turkey's politics, it does it in the polls.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0171par0315	Where is Davutoglu?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0172par0316	Then why are you feeding 10,000 trolls?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0171par0317	Where's Davutoglu?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0173par0318	Those who do not see the fact of the Ark in the past seek comfort in other places, instead of facing it in the future.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0171par0319	He asked, and the people answered to the President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0174par0320	Enough solace for them, enough solace.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0173par0321	Once again, this nation will demonstrate its true will on June 24th and say to Mr. Erdogan, "Keep going with a high vote."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0175par0323	Oh, guys, what are we really discussing? I'm sorry about the Twitter chirping.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0174par0324	Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0176par0325	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0177par0326	The chest! The chest!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0178par0327	So, let's get up, and now, now, then, June 24th, let's put it all aside, let's make it like it's the people's decision on one thing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0179par0328	What are you hoping for? I feel sorry for you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0180par0329	Trolls don't work, trolls.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0181par0330	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0182par0331	Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0181par0332	Right now, Twitter's chirping. I took your word for it as an insult to millions of people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0183par0333	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0184par0334	Let go of me! You mislead all things.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0185par0335	If your business is on social media, you're screwed.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0186par0336	And I'm a Twitter user, and it's a very serious place, and people are expressing their thoughts. You're AKP power, not you; you're independent!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0187par0337	I'm independent.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0186par0338	Unfortunately, social media remains as areas where people breathe, express their feelings and thoughts because they've taken over all the media's organs. So, whether you like it or not, you have to respect the public opinion there.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0187par0339	Okay, okay, no problem.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0188par0340	All right, all right, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0189par0342	Okay, yeah.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0343	Okay, okay, absolutely. Parliament Speaker...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0191par0344	We also use social media, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0345	I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0191par0346	It's not fair to put a mortgage on this nation's will to decide here over social media. People will decide.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0347	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0191par0348	We're ending this discussion here.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0349	I'm sure it's already reflected out of you, too. It means okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0192par0350	He said it, he said it, he said it over and over again.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0351	I mean, you said it over and over again.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0193par0352	We'll save you, too.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0190par0353	We take it as public support, and we say, "Let's go!" Come, remove the State of Emergency, let the politicians go, let us all race freely in the fields, and see who wins.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0194par0354	Yes, let's go! I'd like to see you on June 24th, and...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0195par0355	Let's go! We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit05spe0194par0360	Before I submit the same motions to your votes, I'll look for enough to decide. Your motion, please accept it. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0194par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Sixth Session of the 96th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. There was not enough decision in the vote of the same specific motions given on Article 182 under Article 7 of the Law Bill 556. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0196par0005	There are 105 people, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0194par0006	Yeah, we'll do it with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Congressmans, there is a sufficient number of decisions, the motions are not accepted. So, yeah, we're moving on. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] We'll resume negotiations with Bill 556 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. I'm reading the motion on Article 182 of Article 7: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly "We offer and propose the addition of the declaration of "Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa (a) School of Public Medicine (Istanalu University-Cerrahpaşa (a) in the form of "Istanbul University-Cerrahpaşa (i.e. Mustafa Elitaş Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halis Dalklıç Osman Boyraz Hasan Turan Mehmet Metiner Ismet Flight Saint Nureddin Nebati Feyzullah Coast Leyla Hawk Master Smurf Ünal Does the commission agree with the motion? We're leaving it to our appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0197par0027	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0194par0028	I'm having it read. The new Faculty of Economics and Business School were intended to be established based on İstanbul University-Cerrahpaşa. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the supplement of Article 7 182, which is subject to the 7th Amendment: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in chapter one are complete. Now, let's begin the interviews of section two. The second part covers the 9th and 17th article. On behalf of the group, the first word on the second chapter belongs to Bursa MP Kadir Koçdemir. Here you go, Mr. Coachdemir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0198par0040	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARTI on the second chapter. I salute you all. At the time when cell phones had just turned into color screens, when the cameras had just been installed on their cell phones, Cem Yilmaz had been advertising for a brand of cell phones. One of the ads was: Cem Yilmaz is a king, and with him are men waving their fan, and they bring a telephone to the king. The king looks at the phone, hits the floor, says, "What kind of device is this?" Here, he's counting the features of the public phone: he's got to have a color screen, he's got to take pictures. Those who bring in the device turn upside down and go back. Meanwhile, the king turned to the screens and said, "My king, I have to give some crazy orders from time to time. " This law that we discussed today about colleges reminded me of this ad. An election decision has been made, the country is in the mood for elections, and there will be an important election on many issues and the fate of Turkey in the coming years, and the Grand Assembly is busy with a matter without urgency. And the people who did this are rationalizing the scale, and so far, the people who have had a lot of reverse applications are saying that. They attempt to divide universities by the size of the scale of the measure, which has led to the reduction of the ministries and the recent execution of the judiciary, the commitment of life to one man. Friends, I'd like to present two countries to your attention. One is South and North Korea. You know, they broke up in 1953. South and North Korea were a single people until the moment they were separated: world opinion, mentality, climate, vegetation, a people whose cultural heritage, their faiths were the same until then. Then, through a parallel there, these people were divided into two states. In fact, at the time of the division, North Korea had a relatively small advantage over underground wealth from the South. When did this happen? It happened in 1953. According to the World Health Organization's calculations in 2005, the average life expectancy in North Korea is thirteen years shorter than South Korea. Even on average in 52 years, there's a 13-year difference. South Korea, which was weaker than Turkey by the 1970s, today has one-in-a-halfth of a million square miles of land, 50 million people, and Turkey has at least $3.5 times as much income per capita as $35,000 per person. So, what is the reason for the two different developments in these two communities, which are all the same up until 1953? The same goes for East Germany, West Germany. When they were separated in 1948, 1949, until then, they were the same people in the same culture that read Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, and listened to Beethoven; they split up, they didn't know each other when they were reunited in 1991. Why is that? There's only one reason: in West Germany and South Korea, the rules may not be ideal, but there was a system of rules, a predictable, calculated environment, where children, young people could plan their own lives, and their plans held 80 to 90 percent, but in other parts, you got the right attitude with the right man, who you didn't know anything about, and you were destined to be ratted out by someone you didn't know about. This is what Turkey has become. It's impossible to plan 10 years, 20 years from now, ten days from now, let alone 10 days from now in Turkey. Now you're bringing this arrangement about universities, but I've been studying at Istanbul University for three years. I'm studying at Gazi University. When the student says, "I'm going to get a separate degree, tomorrow when he's applying for work, maybe the name will be perceived as a remote university because it's not known by the staff department.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0199par0046	Mr. Kadir, it depends on his request to get a degree wherever he wants, neither of which is different.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0198par0047	We have not witnessed the slightest public discussion of the necessity of this arrangement. I don't think that's a coincidence, guys. Now, let's try to establish a relationship between the polls in Turkey and the votes in the neighborhoods and the AK PARTI, and let's do a regression analysis, and we see that as the level of education differs positively from the average level of education, as the income level differs positively from the average income level of Turkey, the vote of the EC PARTI falls. If we had done nothing in education, if we had never managed education, this country wouldn't be at the bottom of international rankings today. If we didn't do anything, if we didn't manage, we'd be in a better place in education. And again, this country can never get rid of the $10,000 income level we call a mid-income trap, because the AK PARTY knows that when the average income comes to 17 to 18,000 dollars, when the average education goes up, they'll never get the votes they get today, both as a year and as a quality. See the districts of Turkey, see this.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0200par0050	Who brought him for $10,000? Did you bring it for $10,000? Who brought him in for $10,000? Who brought that income from $3,000 to $10,000?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0198par0051	There's a intention here, there's something that's been done on purpose. It's never possible to get such a bad result by chance. For him, friends, Turkey needs to be normalized, to become a country that can be political again. There is a need for a new understanding that people talk to each other at different parties, that accepts that they want the best for their country and their children, their grandchildren, but thinks that they're wrong, but thinks that it's politics to tell them. For that, the last exit before the bridge is June 24th. On the 24th of June, I hope our beloved nation will say'stop' and see that the difference between two countries, South-North Korea, East-West Germany, is only the state of law. Again, I want to make another difference about our country and finish my promise. Friends, last time I looked at the national team, we have 2-2.5 million people in Europe. Two-and-a-half million of our people -- who have every reason to be left out, to fail, to fall at a disadvantage in the race -- are giving our national team 7-8 players, and we can raise 3-4 footballers in a country of 80 million to work out for our own children. It's a predictable environment, fair, competent, confident, close to the public, to reality, to the truth, to the ground. These staff days aren't long away. May June 24th be a historic opportunity for our nation in this direction. I give you all my regards in the hope of meeting on that day.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0201par0054	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0202par0055	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0201par0056	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0202par0059	Mr. Secretary, in fact, I've told you over and over again before I did this on the microphone, but so far, no problems have been solved. There's a manager at Çakaloğlu Anadolu High School. You know, this principal, he swears a sexist curse on members of the PTA, and there's a huge debate going on. Then he told the students, "You son of a bitch, there's a report on it." He told the inspectors you sent me that I don't know what's broken -- he didn't say where, but I have to say so -- that the inspectors are going to fire me? It's obvious what he wrote about every inspector who ever left. You removed me for a few days, and no one can afford to relieve me. He came to Ankara, came back, sat at the school where he was suspended, and the following day came the letter of extradition. The parents and children of every world opinion at Çakaloğlu Anadolu High School watch this director challenge the state, you, the government, the mind, the conscience. How long will you guys be quiet about this? Where does a minister's word, an undersecretary's word, a man who mocks the inspector's reports, get his strength? What are you going to do about it? We'd like to hear it from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0203par0062	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0204par0064	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the speaker who just spoke, I'm here, and you'll take our attention to the fact that you've been using an external purpose to taunt our party. I'd like to point out that we're not going into any kind of polymics with the preacher, and we're not taking it into consideration. But I also find it necessary to clarify one thing. During the Justice and Development Party, the number of universities increased by twice as many, so when we arrived, 70-odd universities, the number of universities went up today, and today we're negotiating a bill on opening new universities. Second, when we came to power, we did important studies on education; nearly 600,000 teachers were appointed during this period, hundreds of new classrooms opened, and we always made budgets that split the lion's share of education. The Justice and Development Party has again introduced mandatory training in 12 years. In the same way, when we arrived, we tripled the national income, and we set important goals for Turkey, and in order to enrich Turkey, we set important goals to move Turkey further, and according to the acquisition party, Turkey's national income rose above $20,000. Is that enough? No, we're gonna try to get this much higher. So these are reality, these are concrete data; beyond that, we don't care.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0205par0068	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0206par0069	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit06spe0205par0070	Mr. Halaçoglu, there's been a problem with the Parliament TV camera, and now there's a problem with Parliament TV. So I'm gonna have to take a ten-minute break for corrections. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0205par0001	Members of parliament, I am opening the Seventh Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume negotiations with Bill 556 from where we left off. The commission and the government are in place. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Istanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu is a member of the People's Party. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0207par0010	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, thousands of students have been out on the streets for days, making protests by the most respected academics in Turkey. We know that the government wants to eliminate every tradition, every savings that comes before it, but in this country, no one in their right mind would expect that the universities, whose roots are Ottomans, would be their gold. Today, the great academics say that everything we believe in, every savings we create, is taken away from us. If this bill becomes legal, some of Turkey's oldest universities, such as Istanbul University, Gazi University, Selçuk University, Black Sea Technical University, will be separated from the university, and separate universities will be established. Now that it's a school, no matter which politics it is, every policy will be stripped of its identity. The size of a university isn't his weakness, friends, it's his plus. The more departments there are in a university, the more disciplinary studies there are. If there's going to be a smart design for the city around the world today, the projects are being drawn up by physicists, computer engineers, sociologists, urban planners. Today, the approach around the world is not to separate schools, but rather to bring different disciplines together. Would it ever occur to anyone to divide Harvard, Oxford, Cambridge, and change their name? Is there any government that dares to do so? On the contrary, how do we support these universities, and how do we raise their prestige? For example, Istanbul University has more than 70 research centres among the 10 research universities selected last year by the YÖK. When you divide a university, the integrity between these centers and departments will be completely corrupted. The universities, which are rankings in the world, will fall in the back rows as a result of this division. Although we don't have a lot of colleges that have had degrees in a long time, which, unfortunately, have turned into sign colleges, but what's going on right now is still the most valuable, the most radical of them all. Yeah, we're trying to get all the world's universities to the top 500 degrees in the world's ranking, and we're trying to get them to step back. Today there's a destruction that even September 12 coupgers can't imagine. They had stripped off the faculty and names of the left-wing, social sciences departments, but they had no intention of dividing universities, which had a history of Ottoman universities. There's a crowd of colleges today. So, how did we get here, guys? Didn't you raise all those quotas? The SEC has constantly increased quotas to make everyone a college student, regardless of university infrastructure. At that time, academics insisted that they should improve the quality of education, prepare adequate infrastructure, create jobs for graduates, then increase quotas. However, like every change in the country, the NGO has also increased quotas, while it did not ask university components, academics, employees, students. Now that there are many students, let's divide the university. It's really unbelievable. Since we know the AKP's steps to becoming a member of the universities in recent years, we are as certain as we are that the division of universities has no purpose other than to become a staff. For example, why would the ruling AKP not remove a custody institution, such as the SEC, which was built by the generals who carried out the September 12th military coup, saying that it would fight guardianship institutions? Because they could use an institution like that to get their hands on every authority. For this reason, the government has strengthened the CEC through its sixteen years of power. After July 15th, we also took advantage of the State of Emergency regime and forgot who had the talent, who had the integrity, who succeeded, who had the work. Turkey's most successful academics lost their jobs, while universities quickly filled with AKP academics and executives. Look, I'll give you the figures of how it's been staffed: the chairman of the Board of Higher Education has asked for the resignation of 1,577 faculty deans, all the deans, who are serving at universities in Turkey. Just after the coup attempt, a total of 5,342 people from universities who were academics and 1,117 have been suspended quickly. The passports of the exported academics have been cancelled. The work permits of foreign signatory academics have been legally revoked. Even exported academics were prevented from working in private spaces. About 6,000 people, friends, have been unemployed in one night, including 2,808 academics who have been closed to 15 foundation universities. On October 18, 2016, the opening of the 2016-2017 Academic Year was held at the palace and the rectors opened their robes with power. The university's corporate autonomy has been undermined. The Disciplinary Rule has also been imposed on new crimes and has been heavier than on September 12th. The ministers, the SEC, the rectors, were given the authority to dismiss the person they wanted without any investigation. The presidential elections were lifted, and the rectors were appointed directly by the President. Not enough, those in the position of chancellors at universities ignored the real staff needs of universities, giving their university staff to close environments, such as co-friendly, relatives, and to those recommended by political power. In fact, the government's plan is clear; they're going to quickly get someone to do a doctorate and assign them to new staff at these new universities, just like the same construction and staffing that happened before September 12th. Today, reactions are rising from all over the country to the division of universities. University students and academics everywhere hold signature campaigns to withdraw the bill by saying, "Don't touch my university." Is it as beautiful as a college student owns an academic university, but I'm afraid it's impossible for power to imagine such a thing? Furthermore, not only do these reactions come from those who are opposed, but the real scientists and students, who are AKP voters, who don't take it lightly, object to this bill. Look, I went to Ankara University Law School. After September 12th, we studied with academics who said that the punishment for execution was the state's premeditated killing. When the new Constitution was imposed on them, I gave up my lesson without swearing to this day, and then we read with academics who said, "I will not obey." I'd like to speak respectfully of Müncý Kapani (Muçin Kapani) and of the Bahriye Threeok (the Marine) who, unfortunately, died in the bomb attack, and of the one who had lost his life before him - Hodja Coshkun Threeok (the first person who died) and of Selahattin Keyman (the first person who died). Yes, we need such teachers, such universities, such academics, and that's what's wanted. The French 68 generation has a saying, don't trust what anyone over 30 says. The students actually gave the right answer to the creativity of youth in the face of this tragic, tragic situation they fell into. They say colleges aren't bacteria, they don't multiply by division. Yes, they really aren't bacteria, they don't multiply by division, but, dear young people, we can multiply, especially after June 24th. On the 24th of June, we'll all say okay. And we'll all wave goodbye, we'll say goodbye. That you have responded to this from the heart, even though being silenced today on the streets... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0208par0022	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0207par0023	Even though it's banned today to say OK. I know from your heart that even if there's a possibility of getting a KHK out of the street -- because the young people are being blocked now because they say OK. Let's submit this to the information of the Assembly -- that you have responded to it from the heart, and on June 24th, we're done. I know you're going to say that. I would like to end my words by saluting a dear friend of ours, Onur Hamzaoglu. Onur Hamzaoglu wanted to visit his mother in her mother's illness, but the persecution was so far beyond her that she was not allowed to visit her mother, and Onur Hamzaoglu, who introduced Dilovasi to Turkey, told Turkey about the spread of the cancer, went to her mother's funeral the other day. We salute you, Onur Hamzaoglu. My love, my respect.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0209par0027	Thank you. Now it's time for Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] You also have a five-minute request for a word on behalf of individuals, and I'll add that to that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0210par0032	Thank you. Mr. President, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I salute the General Assembly. Before we express our views on universities that we will focus on, the so-called signing of 300 intellectuals, including the former President Sarkozy, in France, is a subject that we think is directly related to the concept of university, which should be discussed with a lot of consideration and example. Because this claim is an offer to destroy the Qur'an, the Qur'an, the Qur'an, the Qur'an, and the Jews, by disemboweling the evidence that makes them enemies. We'd like to point out that making such an offer is no ordinary event. This is not just the attitude of the so-called 300 intellectuals, the Western intellectual, but a sign of a new operation on the Islamic world as well as the claim that the holy places, especially Mecca, where the pilgrimage has been built these days, are being held. But if they were to scan a little bit of literature and a little bit of literature, look at the values that Islam has added to humanity, today they will see even the existence of their own civilization in the origins of Islam, and in the world of science produced by the Islamic world, produced by Turkish culture. They would see how the history of science has cheered them up, how meeting the concept of university, especially in positive sciences, went from the East to the West. Today, on the other hand, it is a manifestation of the blind, deaf, orientist perspective, especially in postmodern approaches. We define this concept as intellectual violence, and we think that intellectual violence is work and action in the move of ISIS, Al Qaeda, DEAŞ, which means that religious extremist organizations are doing with guns. These are the insights that trigger radicalization, trigger marginalization, which make their own people look like the other one, the East, and the Muslim. However, when they take into account the Muslim communities living in Europe, especially France, there are signs of chaos and crisis even within their own country, and they show its call. In this regard, we would like to draw attention to the fact that this move by these so-called independent intellectuals in France would evolve from a civilian initiative to a different global policy. We condemn those who sign under it. We invite them to be blessed with science, to be blessed with Islam, to understand the meaning of the Islamic world and of the Qur'an. As a reminder from the root and meaning of Islam, that peace is the meaning of peace, that Islam is a believer who represents peace, we recommend that those environments, if they are a bit enlightened and intellectual, scan for a bit of resources if they have a bit of compassion. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the approaches to dissolution, proliferation, reconstruction of the universities we're discussing are, of course, the things we want to be positive at the point of search for good, beauty, truth, truth. Because there's a common belief that the combination of university differences in a universal sense is a place of search for truth and culture of living together around common ethical values. The university is not just a place where information is transferred, where knowledge is taught, but where people are seeking knowledge, who are seeking truth, not a place of life. When describing the university teacher, the university teacher should be a person who's paid to do what he does for a living, not a person who's paid to do it better, and universities should be able to come up with more work and actions in scientific terms than the sort of sort of bureaucratic thinking we're discussing right now. We desire it. We believe that this understanding of the Islamic world, especially the Turkish-Islam civilization, which began in the Valley of Maveraunnehir, is the result of its search for the truth, and the new universities that will be established can see it on their own reality. In this context, when we look at the basic issues of our universities in the universal standard of a third generation university book, a researcher named Hans Viessmann says that the world's first generation of universities only trained professionals and tried to spread the information that existed. Second generation universities have made it their mission to create and develop new information by putting research first. The third generation of universities began to raise entrepreneurs as well as professionals and researchers with their interdisciplinary and flexible structures. Where are we in the third generation of college? Our hope and hope, in this sense, is that more than universities come to the agenda with bureaucratic oligarch, this process of designing is to have multi-dimensional, undisciplinary universities that evolve towards the third generation of universities, meet the needs of the university, and not there to transfer information, but to look for the truth, and that means that entrepreneurs are raised by multi-dimensional, interdisciplinary universities. As we look at the way it happened and the way it worked, Professor Yekta Saraç, the head of the YKK, has made a statement in the press statement that for about ten years the issue of the adoption of universities is on the agenda, and that similar situations continue in other universities, particularly Istanbul University, and that they are an example of the other university that left Selçuk University. So, mentally, there's a ten-year history of this preparation, and there's a statement in his work on the bill that he's prepared for about four or five years. I mean, this doesn't look like a job that's been brought up all night. It is natural to have these discussions because belonging is very important. Like Istanbul University, people define schools like Gazi University based on their heritage. Because belonging, identities are one of the reasons why modern people re-exist within the city. The student who feels that he belongs to his university, the professor who feels that he belongs to his university, I'm privileged to this identity. The new conditions for this classified and separated university may be an argument about my belonging. It's a social psychological test, a motive. And the second one, and they're right about themselves -- but I believe that if the NGO gives more information about this, I think it's understandable -- is that the universities, the brand values of the newly established universities, or some of their rights can be re-existed there. So internationally with the University of Istanbul, teachers who run different projects with Gazi University, friends who make student exchanges under the Erasmus Program, what about our status after we leave, what about the programs that we share under that brand? The NGO gives satisfying answers, but I don't think the answers on this issue can be given to the masses enough, not to the friends who act. On the other hand, there's a problem with research practice centers at universities. Where will the People's Science Research and Appliance Council of the Turkish Department of People's Science, which I'm also a professor at at Gazi University, now remain under these conditions? So when the literature faculty went to the new university, in my search for answers to the anxious questions about where this practice centre would remain, Mr. SEC Vice President Sefa informed me that there would be no need for proposals and amendments, with regulations, that the research centers for the main sciences related to the faculty would be transferred to the relevant university. On this occasion, I would like to express it to my friends, but on the other hand, there is a statement in the Veteran College, except for the University of Veterans, the Faculty of Turkish Music, the State Conservatory and the Faculty of Communication. They took this expression as a bit of a insult, and they said that we did not like this approach to the exchange and exchange of our physical spaces and resources in transition to the university. These are things that can be improved, they can be tolerated. It is necessary to express these things from here and to do well in the field by taking into account the process management, without hurting the professors or hurting the students during the field. We don't want to dwell on the timing of this issue, the details, what's behind; we don't want to dwell on it very much; but we also express our concern, our advice, our concern, our advice, that new universities, in this sense of science and science, will be brought to light, not just in the direction of the bureaucratic oligarchy and administrative organization schematics, but in the central issue of the university, where colleges are looking for the truth. Another issue, when we express that we are going to talk about universities, is one of the main issues of our students, the students who are studying in our second course are having trouble paying these tuition fees, can they make it easier for this? I think that similar pardons or student fees and past debts can be raised again in favor of the student? I say that we have more of this belonging to identities and universities, or to people who feel like they belong to the great belonging to the Turkish nation, the Turkish culture, the country, the native, the national and the people who belong to this land, than all of them have to be, and they have to be, and they have to be, and they have to be, and they have to be, and they have to be. I wish for the work and the actions to be done to bring peace, peace and brotherhood to our country. One thing we've highlighted over and over again is that it's about ten years of background, about four or five years of commission work, and as a model model at universities, I think it's about the fact that the work at Selçuk University's design is being discussed so much over the course of the election climate, but I think it's also about the fact that the process management, the public administration, can't be conducted in this sense in a healthy way. The commissions that are going to make the decisions are in the interests of the NGO, the Ministry of National Education, and in the end, we are aware that the decisions made along with the involvement of university rectors and other bureaucrats in the process have led to controversy in my faculty, your faculty's division. But in spite of all this, I want to emphasize that no executive who rules the state of the Republic of Turkey and is elected by the will of the Turkish nation and who is currently appointed, the public bureaucrat who manages this kind of education knowingly and willingly, would not do this work just to give the allies an opportunity, so I don't believe it. There's a concern here. How can we do better, better, and closer to the ideal? At this point, it may cause a number of things to be criticised, but to the sincerity of the intent... With the wish of universities to capture the light and virtue of the truth and to give a national sense of the Turkish community a sense of light and light, we, too, express our views as the National Party of Action, bowing with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0211par0047	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Antalya MP Mustafa Akadın. Here you are, Mr. Akadun. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0212par0052	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by remembering the three plants that were executed and being punished by us for fighting an anti-empericalist war forty-six years ago. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, of course, colleges are our agenda. I'd like to ask our Minister of National Education and the ruling lawmakers, dear friends, what's the hurry? Although, in a press interview last week, our head of staff said that we had been discussing the work for ten years. I'm a congressman from the university community, although I haven't been under the college roof in ten years, but I've been on the National Education Commission for three years, and believe me, I've never heard of it because it's an effort to divide universities, so we found it in the National Education Commission. It's a very serious business to open a university, let alone a division, even opening a university. Therefore, it is not possible to reason and reason that such a matter would come to parliament without debate in the university community, without briefings from the National Education Commission by the NGO. At the opening of the 2016-2017 school year, Mr. President's specific remarks are that we've gone a little too fast so far, we've opened inferior universities, we need to review our education model. So it turns out that Mr. President isn't behind this, either, just like in the TEOG exam. Dear friends, in 2002, November; the AKP came to power, presented a ten-point Emergency Action Plan, including universities as the primary target. Do you want to divide the universities, or do you want to change the rectors... But there's been talk of changing the SEC Law, and look, it's been 16 years, and it hasn't changed. So, is there one positive job done for the university? I don't think so. So if you say there's this one, I'm really going to go with it, I don't think there is. Six national education ministers changed, the first one I remember very well from the Inter-United Assembly, attending board meetings, Erkan Mumcu. Nothing positive, dear friends. For one thing, what should be done as a rule is, if you want to open a university somewhere, do you need the manpower that the programs of that university require? Who would detect that? Labour unions, employers' unions, NGOs, TOBBB, unions, confederations that determine this need, a program based on it. Secondly, it is researched if the socioeconomic conditions of the province that should be opened are available to open a university. Third, you can look at the academic potential, academic power to teach the programs that you want to open the country needs. The last one goes through the Finance Minister's audit, does it have funding in the budget? Now, from what we've seen, we're building twenty new universities, fourteen of which are divided. According to the press today, it's also said that it's twenty-five. I don't know how many colleges are being founded or divided right now, only 14 of them seem to be being divided. Dear friends, there's no such thing as a college division in the world, I haven't heard it, so if anyone knows it, say it. There is a concept in Turkey called university division. Look, in the 70s, they needed medical school, some sponsored universities, especially Hacettepe Medical School, and then Ankara University was a suitor, first a medical school was opening up in that province, but it wasn't in the same county. A lot of colleges later became colleges in the cities where those medical schools were opened, so it wasn't divided. When did the division fashion come to Turkey? It's come from the 1990s, it's the wrong model, my friends. Look, I was the fourth chancellor of my university, and now the 6th chancellor of my university, and the University of Mediterranean University has given birth to Süleyman Demirel, Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who has given birth to Aladdin Keykubat, who is suffering from the pains of the 4th birth, friends; could there be such an illegitimate job? If that happens, it'll be in Turkey. There's only one college in the world that I know of that's been divided, but it hasn't changed its name; it's the Sorbonne-1, the Sorbonne-2, the Sorbonne-3, the Sorbonne-4. Come on, if you want to break it up, at least make it Istanbul-1, İstanbul-2, Gazi-1, Gazi-2. Friends, colleges have brand value, brand value, just like Mercedes. Look, the University of Bologna, which was accepted as the world's first university in 1088, is still living under the same name as those founded in the 11th and 12th century of Europe, and their students are proud of it, even with their ancestors. Can you divide a Mercedes car and make a Peugeot with a Sparrow? If you can't, you can't divide Istanbul University and build two universities within the province of Istanbul. This is contrary to university autonomy, my dear friends, because if a university is to be divided, the university's employees, academics and students are to be consulted first. If you look at these applications, I just got a call from my daughter Pelin from İstanbul Surgeonpaşa, crying... hundreds of calls have been coming in for days, crying from academics and students. Please, don't do this injustice, dear friends. Guys, we're bragging about seven and a half million students from our colleges. Now you're going to say that this is a positive job, right? So our schooling rate in colleges has increased, so it might seem positive. The number of universities was about 70 when you came to power, and it tripled today, not twice as much as your vice president said, but I'm increasing the number three times higher. So, come on, let's look at the quality of these universities, how's it going? I mean, what was the academic issue of these universities when you came to power, and where did it change? I'll tell you there's no big change in academic publishing numbers, but you got a huge zero in the quality of academic literature because at the time -- in 2006 figures -- the number of references of Turkish universities, index values, the impact of their articles were so high, there were 150,000 references to the publications of Turkish universities, the publications on the outside journals; by 2012, this fell down to 15 to 16,000. Friends, look at the statistics, there wasn't a single country with a population of Islamic origin that could beat us, the world's universities ranked, and today Iran is far ahead of us. So you can divide universities, you can subtract 70 from 200, you can even subtract 400 tomorrow, you can even raise your universities to 8,000 like India; by doing so, we've increased the number of universities. There's no point in bragging about it. What else does a college brag about? He boasts about his graduates' work situation, friends, all the universities in the world because when a college student graduates in the world, he gets a good job and earns money. So, how's the job situation when we graduate college students? About 27% unemployed, dear friends. Look, we didn't have the National Education Commission -- we didn't have the National Education Minister, we didn't have the NGO President -- we asked the Deputy Director of the NGO: how much of the university staff -- are you bragging about right now? Minister, you were there. Twenty-five percent are empty, so the student has given up on college staff, not even going to colleges, friends. There's nothing to brag about, dear friends. I mean, if you can't find work for your student, your grad student, your degree is worthless. Friends, your diplomas are also in the interest of the country. Look, an engineering degree is one of the most expensive degrees in the world, so it's not acceptable for an engineer to be unemployed if you're giving him an engineering degree. We have almost a majority of engineers out of work. There's something wrong with our engineers or their training, and our Minister of National Education needs to think seriously about it. The only computer engineers -- I know -- were able to get a job, and even if they did, they wouldn't be able to live on a satisfactory salary, friends. Agriculture engineers are unemployed, chemical engineers are unemployed, all engineers are unemployed. Engineer unemployment is a serious waste of resources. Towards the end of my words, I'd like to share with you an incident at the National Board of Education -- a friend -- which upsets me very much. Friends, we build universities, migration is fucked on the way. A friend said. Yeah, is that acceptable, guys? So this is going to be the first quarter of the 21st century? Yes, we are a nation of Yörük people, but is it possible, dear friends, that we could defend the policy that our Yörüks were following when they migrated from Central Asia to Turkey from Central Asia to Turkey a thousand years ago when the university opened today? Migration is fucked on the road, just like it's done with the migrating head. Modern, modern, college man's head, it's impossible to accept that migration is fucked on the road, dear friends. I'm gonna need a little more time, Mr. President. I'm just finishing up.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0213par0067	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0212par0068	Now, dear friends, we've had such a funny time when colleges were opening, when they were splitting... You're looking at an additional motion being made at midnight, at this time -- maybe it'll happen again soon -- an MP comes out, and he says: "There are two universities in my province, but there are no universities in the district of my province. Come on, I've made a motion, groups are being circulated, other parties are supporting each other, etc, etc., colleges are opening up in the county. What kind of comedy is that? We'll open up college in the villages one day tomorrow, folks. How are we going to be different from India by opening these universities, giving quality degrees, making our students happy? We have 7,5 million students, with our schooling rate, with our student numbers, we have the most numerous students in Europe after Russia. Is it a trick to say, dear friends? Look, I'll tell you one thing: it's not acceptable for a university in civilized countries to give to a doctor who's not 30 years old today, it's not acceptable. Which of our universities is over 30 years old today, and I'll tell you: at least 160-170 of these 200 universities are not 30 years old. We're giving it all to the doctor. Today we boast that we have 100,000 Ph.D. students. What is the quality of these PhD students? Do these doctoral students get jobs? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Look, I'm a college graduate, so can a Ph.D. get a job? We need to sit down and discuss this, my dear friends. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0214par0074	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the Eskişehir MP Nabi Avcı (Avcı) belongs to the group. Here you go, Mr. Hunter.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0215par0078	Now he's gonna defend the partition?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0216par0079	At 4 plus 4 plus 4 you've been beaten to death; the mother of the students is still crying, Hajji. He got us beaten up, but the students are crying. We didn't cry, the students are crying!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0214par0080	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I have invited the minister to the stand.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0216par0081	With all due respect to our teacher, I've made a flashback.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0214par0082	Please come in, Hajji.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0217par0083	There's a lot to say to Mr. Hati, but...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0218par0084	Mr. President, there's so much, so much...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0214par0085	We have so much to say, so much to walk. Here you go, teacher.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0087	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you first. Let's start at the end: would the university be university by design? After all, based on the testimony of our esteemed Chancellor, our beloved Antalya Milliculli... if the people who lived here sixty years ago thought so, I would not be present with you now as a graduate of Middle East Technical University.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0220par0089	I wish!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0090	Because sixty-six years ago, the Middle East Technical University was established in a three-story building over there in Kızılay, Defense Street; the administration was a three-story building on the District of Defense, and the classrooms were built in the garden of this Assembly. He started training in barracks, but after six or seven years, he was able to get his own campus. So does immigration line up on the way? It's a process management. There's also a concept called process management.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0221par0092	It's not managing, it's not managing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0093	So the migration, yes, is also arranged or fucked on the way, and it recovers on the way, reforms itself, reforms itself, corrects its wrongs. There's bound to be mistakes, there's bound to be, there's bound to be mistakes, there's bound to be different connections in such extensive arrangements. These will be corrected in time. Now, I'd like to give you a brief piece of information about the very high-profile Anadolu University -- which I've been teaching for 18 years. The University of Anatolia was founded in 1973 as a sign. A university of science on paper -- but it has no organization -- and a medical school trained in Hacettepe. I mean, there's a medical school, but his students are studying at Hacettepe. Later, different institutions, such as Eskişehir Economics and Commerce Academy in Eskişehir, State Engineering Architecture Academy, Education Institute, were assembled, and other students who were educated in Hacettepe were taken here and were founded at the University of Anatolia in Eskişehir. Is that bad? No, it's great, it's a good college. He was then born from the beautiful university of Afyon. He was born from the University of Koppe, and he was born from the University of Anatolia. Not enough, but the University of Dumlupınar was born in Kütahya, Anadolu University. So it's divided into what you call a university in Afyon; it's divided; it's divided into a university in Kütahya; it's divided; it's divided into a University of Sheikh Edebali in Bilecik, and we've done it together. You're going to say: these were colleges that were fermented in different cities, where they were fermented, fermented through colleges that had been established before, proto colleges, and then colleges. A university called Osmangazi University -- as you call it -- was founded in Eskişehir district of Eskişehir. He has two universities, Eskişehir, both from the University of Anatolia, and they're both pretty good. Now, I have friends who know Eskişehir very well. We have two separate campuses on both sides of the city: one is the Yunus Emre campus, one is the September 2 campus; these are both on the two edges of the city, and there has been a serious demand in Eskişehir that this September 2nd campus be a separate university from both the citizens of Eskişehir and academic circles for years. In view of this demand, we said: The infrastructure of Eskişehir (Eskişehir), the level of development, requires a technical university. Look, I'm going to give you the reason, and I'm going to give you one very brief reason: the Eskişehir aircraft engine, engine manufacturing, and the entire country market, with companies that have managed to enter into the 500 major industrial enterprises of Turkey. Eskişehir, who has managed to enter Turkey's brightest cities with technology and new production opportunities, has the ability to become one of our country's leading industrial provinces on the RD. The position of Eskişehir is at the head of our cities, which are nominated to become an attractive centre for qualified and equipped scientists and researchers in the coming years, with the potential for industrial implementation that he has for researchers and researchers. The new university -- third university -- will contribute as much to the social, economic, cultural life of our country as it does to the region. Eskişehir has physical infrastructure and savings that can provide all the needs of new university students. You don't.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0222par0096	Because Yilmaz Buyukşen of CHP is building the infrastructure, so we have all the infrastructure, no problem.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0097	Well, whoever contributed, God bless them, but they have this infrastructure.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0222par0098	Amen.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0099	Now, the reason I've read to you is the general reason for the proposal to establish a third university in Eskişehir, which was given from your group on June 3, 2016.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0223par0100	A new university, a new...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0222par0101	We stand by our offer.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0102	New college? No. The University of Eskişehir Economics and Higher Technology. Engineering School, Aeronautics and Space Sciences based on the presidency. Where are you going to buy aviation? There's one there, on that campus, the School of Aeronautics and Space Sciences. What have you done now? You interrupted. Not because we were opposed to this offer, but because we found it inadequate... this was trying to build with two faculty, three faculty, and now a more comprehensive, well-thought-out arrangement is being made in accordance with the demands of Eskişehir. See, in front of me is the Official Gazette, which included the Foundation Law of Hacettepe University of July 8, 1967. When you read about this Hacettepe's organization's debates from other sources, but especially from the late Butcher, you see that these arguments are not new, there are no new arguments. So much so that Ankara University is being divided at that time, there are two medical schools, one of which wants to be a separate university as Hacettepe Medical School, under the leadership of Shredder. The professors of Ankara University are applying to the Constitutional Court; they can't succeed to prevent the establishment of this university; the professors of Istanbul University, whatever it is, are going to court, and they're not; the Inter-United Assembly is going to court, and all this fighting is getting into a beautiful university like Turkey, Hacettepe University. So I, okay, about a number of connections... four years ago, at the opening of the new school year at Istanbul Technical University, they invited me to the opening class as Minister of National Education, where I told them. Before opening class, a small orchestra performed a small concert, a small concert. The story is that in 1982, the YÖK under the rule of the Doğramacı, while we, as a young assistant, are standing at Anadolu University, where there will be division and Osmangazi University. In those days, a cartoon in Gürllüylü magazine -- you will remember Mr. Muhlis and Yavlum Mithat. -- He speaks, calls, says: "Take the Turkish Musikisi Conservatory, tie it to İstanbul Technical University. Now, the roles can change from time to time, yes, that kind of thinking happens, but I told you there, I told you at the University of Technical Istanbul, it's not bad, we were on the side of Mullis, we were on the side at the time, we were on the right, but when we saw the young people who performed that concert, we saw how much they had contributed to the Turkish Musikisi Conservatory of Istanbul Technical University...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0224par0106	Mr. President, give me five more minutes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0225par0107	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0108	When I saw that Mr. Mullis was right, God bless him.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0226par0109	Why are you interrupting colleges?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0110	May Allah grant mercy to the late Tevfik Forward, who has filed the report of the establishment of Middle East Technical University, and to Celal Vice Minister, and to the Minister of National Education, and to Adnan Menderes, and to Ihsan Doğramist, and God have mercy on him.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0226par0111	You've said a lot of things besides why you're interrupting colleges.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0219par0112	God bless those who won Eskişehir the first university, the second university, and the third university. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0227par0115	God bless you, too. Thank you, Mr. Hodja. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0119	On the day that Mr. Nabi Avcı had left his post, we thanked him for his kind manner, but we told him that in his work, as he did today, he would believe and defend, that he would bring disaster upon the country. Then you'll see, the PISA results will be like this, so it'll be fine.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0229par0120	It's good, it's good.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0121	Eighty-five percent of voters are complaining about the education system in the study of voters who are currently voting for them, and the Justice and Development Party thinks they can't do it, and you all know it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0230par0122	That's what Mr. Recep said.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0231par0123	The president also said that education is very bad. The President told me.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0124	Of course, roles change, roles change. When you're in the opposition ranks after 25, when Muharrem is thin in the administration, a Republican People's Party minister will defend the division of universities, you'll change your position, but we won't change our position. We're against division of universities, disposing of brand values. From now on, we will continue to defend the modern management of education, universities and universities. We know you're partisans, you're trying to create a cast, you're trying to take it apart. We also condemn your defence of the 12th of September. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0232par0127	Here you go, Mr. Hodja.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0233par0129	Now, look, I didn't say anything to make it too polemic. Look, this is the statement Gaye Beceer made in Eskişehir, before the National Education Commission meeting. She says in this statement: I read the government bill to the Commission line by line -- she read it, she saw what was being done -- but when I read this, where is the high-tech university that was promised to Eskişehir? Those who promise to pay, of course. We will put pressure on the commission to establish the third university.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0130	Right.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0233par0131	Where's the pressure?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0132	What does he have to do with the law?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0234par0133	He says, "Don't tear it apart, start a new university."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0233par0134	On the contrary, he did whatever it took to stop the creation of the third university.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0228par0135	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0234par0136	He says, "Don't smash it."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0233par0137	And we'll ask him about his account. You say...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0235par0138	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0236par0139	One divided by two divided by three, Mr. Secretary, and you've forgotten the account, if you divide one by two, that's two halves.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0237par0140	Mr. President, this isn't...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0235par0141	Wait a minute, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0237par0142	Okay, sorry.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0235par0143	Is it over, Mr. Hunter?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0238par0144	It's over.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0235par0145	Mr. Special, please, let's finish.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0239par0147	Mr. President, now, there's a fact. If only a citizen would listen to our Nabi Hodja, Mr. Secretary, what he says is true, but I'm surprised when he makes it sound like it's true. We want third college, you do it by dividing a second university. We want a new university to be established.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0238par0148	How do we set it up?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0239par0149	We offered him the law. Instead of starting the third university, you're going to divide the current university. We're against him, too. You're also as conflicted as Mr. President of your party thinks that Adnan Menderes Airport is his own party. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0240par0153	Now, look, you...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0241par0154	Thank you. The final word for the individuals now belongs to Sakarya MP Mustafa Isen.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0240par0159	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0241par0160	Teacher, let's finish. I called the clerk. Here you go, Mr. Isen.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0242par0162	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, we haven't really talked about what Mr. Nabi Bey is going to say, but what I'm going to say is kind of complete what he's going to say. In fact, the change of universities in society means watching social change in a way. When we look at it this way, it's going to be one-on-one parallel between the achievements of the university mission and social change. The characteristic of medieval universities is education. In contrast, nationalisation and service to the nation's state administration are prominent in the first modern universities of 16th century European and Latin American countries. At American universities in the 19th century, democratisation is an important mission. At the same time, German universities pioneered the research mission. In the second quarter of the last century, when America became the world power, American universities adopted the community service mission. It can be said that 20th - century universities are overcoming their past earnings and reaching a certain level of homogeny. Although organized, quality, and so on, the universities of the 20th century have basically become five basic missions. These are education, research, nationalization, democratisation and public service. A mission, such as the union of national states or the service of the world, appears to be one of the recently shared goals of universities. Because of their important social roles, universities, academys and universities have also drawn public interest and sensitivity in our country, the problems of higher education have often been discussed in public. These discussions have at times led to changes in university order and reform initiatives. The institutes of higher education established in the 18th and 19th centuries have established the foundation of our universities in a modern sense. Since the founding of the republic, higher education has had significant structural and administrative changes to fulfill its functions as part of the educational system. The first radical change in the Turkish higher education system was made by 1933 reforms, followed by laws adopted in 1946 and 1973 and continued reform efforts. The last radical change in this area appears in 1981. But these transitions have often been difficult. From the memory of the Shredder, Mr. Nabi told me how the Hacettepe was founded, and I was going to mention it. However, the spread of science to Anatolia, which began with Ozal, has had very positive results for Turkey. Looking back today, I would say that the Turkish university system has successfully moved on and that the universities that have been opened to Anatolia in particular have performed very well. I graduated from Erzurum Ataturk University. If I were to tell you about the founding stage of this university and all its gains to Turkish universities afterwards, I'd have to have a long talk here. I want to say that I was particularly surprised to see Mr. Mustafa's speech. After contributing to the establishment of a university that has become a brand-new body transplant at a medical school point, such as Antalya, it is not understandable to have such a negative view of the issue of new universities and rural universities. The institute of higher education recently made positive changes to universities in Turkey. The SEC has made its transition from one type of university to major colleges. We're taking new steps towards research universities and regional universities. I want to express that these will have good results. I want to make a point here, and I want to make it very urgent, like why was it done so quickly, and we've taken the university at Sakarya University to a new configuration, and I've sat down with my friends in this frame, especially university teachers and current rectors, for six months, and we've put this into an evaluation with all the layers of society, and we're now bringing a construction that the city has been very excited about to take into Turkey's agenda. The divisive stories of Istanbul University and Gazi University have been discussed in public for at least ten years. In this framework, a new university is established within my city of Sakarya. I wish the University of Applied Sciences of Sakarya well for our city and for our country, and I wish to make the same wishes for other new universities that have been established. Despite the negative political and economic conditions of the country from time to time, there were great efforts and great sacrifices...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0243par0173	Finish your sentence.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0242par0174	...this development is one of the key indicators of the will and determination of the Republic of Turkey to capture proud paintings and modern civilization. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0243par0176	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0244par0177	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit07spe0243par0178	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0243par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Eighth Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue our talks at 556 rows of the Bill of Law. The commission and the government are in place. Now, before I do the second part of the bill, I promise Mr. Akaydın to his place according to 60. Here you are, Mr. Akadun.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0245par0008	Mr. President, I love and respect Mr. Mustafa Isen, but in his speech on the Commission, this statement is fucked on the road. I'm a lecturer on the campus of the University of the Mediterranean... who's been assigned to the field of goats. Seventeen years of medical school, Mediterranean University. Now he's over thirty years old, and I don't think he's finished developing an agricultural faculty, and the engineering faculty's labs are completely inadequate, and the technical sciences are all the same, and there was a dean, a professor of law school, who graduated when I was president. So it happened to become a university, and in 2008 he also received the most kidney transplants a year in the world from Sao Paulo. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But in the meantime, many generations of professors and students, I can no longer express what they're going through. For him, the criticism of Mr. Isen is a bit of an easy criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0246par0013	Thank you, Mr. Akaydun. We're doing 15 minutes of QA; I'll split half of it for the question, and I'll promise the Minister to answer the other half. The first question belongs to Mr. Pitcher. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0247par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the tradesman is crying blood in Mersin. In the first four months of 2018, he had to close 1,786 shops. Mersin became the fourth most bankrupt province of the tradesman. On January 1st, the dollar was $3.77, and four months later today it was $4.31, and on January 1st it was $5.10, and today it was $5.66. How can you still claim that the economy is good? What kind of mood is that? You made an early election because you can't run the country anymore, and people know it. Recep Tayyip Erdogan says we'll step aside from class. I just looked, in a few hours, 787 thousand people are screaming at you from Twitter... okay... okay... okay... okay... Your withdrawal is number one on Turkey's agenda. Congratulations.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0248par0023	Mr. Tanal is gone. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0249par0025	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleges are the centers of knowledge and science, the memory of the country. Are those who know equal to those who do not know? Words and behavior that are not based on knowledge can also lead to bigotry. The knowledgeable one is strong. Knowledge is the key that opens the door to truth. A candle does not lose its light by lighting another candle, he says. That's what it's like to have new universities out of colleges. The spread of knowledge is possible with the spread of the institutions of science, not with the hope and talk of where we sit. There is no knowledge without concern, but there is no field that is reaped without planting. The absence of science to life is like plowing a field and not planting it. We need to bring the knowledge of the universities to life.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0248par0027	Mr. Kayan...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0250par0028	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP has divided and separated every corner of our country since November 2, 2002, the day it came to power. He broke up the religion because it wasn't secular. And He split the believers into sects. Kurd, Turk, Armenian, Roman divided the people. He interrupted the media by saying he wasn't a supporter. He broke up businessmen by calling them non-compliances. He broke up the lawyers by calling them non-compliances. He broke up sports clubs by saying he was on my side and he wasn't on my side. He broke up our tradespeople by saying he was on my side and he wasn't on my side. He interrupted the peasant saying he wasn't on my side and he wasn't on my side. He divided the animal maker, and divided the farmer, saying he was not my ally. He interrupted the courts by saying he didn't decide the way I wanted him to, that he didn't decide the way I wanted him to. In short, Turkey divided it. Now, what do you want from this country? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0251par0031	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0252par0032	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you know there are a lot of teachers in the new era waiting to be appointed. Can you give an answer to our teachers who are looking forward to it: How many teachers will you appoint in the new era? That's my first question. My second question: Again, you know there is a serious difference between a scholarship to many Turkish children in the new era and a scholarship to foreign students from abroad. When will you be able to remove our own children from foster status and at least create an equal number of scholarships? I'm waiting for an answer to that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0253par0036	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0254par0037	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, most of the staff, including your ministry's assistant service class, have upper and upper secondary education, and are particularly in administrative services. Assistant service class personnel are at a state official's status according to the State Officers Act, but they are at a very low level, especially in terms of salary from other civil servants. In the same way, they have informed us that there are no additional indicators. Yes, we are now in the election, and unfortunately, during your administration and your ministry, there has been no regulation on the particular victimized auxiliary service class. What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0253par0039	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0255par0040	Mr. Secretary, maybe this question isn't really about you, but I still have to ask. Giresun is the only province of the East Black Sea without an freeway. Although it is said that there is a road to the south, I regret to say, let alone the tender process, there is not even a more confirmed, approved project on this road. You never know how many lanes it's gonna be, what route it's gonna take. What happened to the bidding process? Unfortunately, that was an empty promise. And we made the road, and we bound the roads together. And you boast. Another question is, why can't you solve the dorm problem, is there an obstacle? And the teachers who were brought back under the law are still in prison. What do you think about that? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0256par0043	Thank you. Mr. Durmaz, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0257par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, you can share your share with the ministers. On May 6th, it would have been announced who was in charge of the Whack Airport contract, but today, three days later, there was no such explanation. We'd like to know if your government has suspended such investments because of the budget and lack of money in the election climate.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0256par0047	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0258par0048	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, a document has been issued from Van, and the original text of the document has been shared with the public. We'll give all the lists of teachers who will serve in the electives to the State of Emergency Commission, who will be given a security check, and who will be appointed after that. Now, if they're guilty, why are they doing the job, or why the security check? The question comes to mind: "Will there be people in those crates who want power? " We're waiting for an opening on this.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0256par0050	Finally, Mr. Zeybek, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0259par0051	Minister, what do you want to do with education by dividing universities while universities are united in the world? On the other hand, today we're going to discuss the construction of what our farmers are going to receive. We also know that our farmers owe money to banks or troops. It will be possible for our farmers, our feeders, to build their debt to banks, to the troops, and to make our farmer, who is currently in a difficult position because of his unpaid product, to somehow be delayed and supported by their debt, along with this support, to improve their economy so that the production of the country can be stronger in the new year's production. That's why we want you to know that the government has to contribute, support production, support the farmer, support the feeder.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0256par0053	Thank you. Now I'll leave the word to our Minister of National Education to answer the questions. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0056	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, our deputy mentions that there are tradesmen who close shop in Mersin, so how did you say economics is getting better when they're so real? He says what I said last time. When I say economics is improving, I look at the figures: 229,367 new businesses opened last year, and our total number of businesses increased to 1,673,225. 229 grand opened and 96 grand closed. Looking at what's opening, looking at what's closing. Surely the numbers you say are true, and I'm not saying anything to them, but take the amount that has been opened from Mersin, which is probably twice as much as the amount that has been closed -- look, the number here is twice as new. I said the economy is getting better. Why did I say that?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0261par0059	That's not a reason, Mr. Secretary. We'll look at the closings.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0060	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0261par0061	When we look at those who were born and those who died...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0062	It's a profit of trade and...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0261par0063	There are born, there are dead.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0064	That's right, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0261par0065	Do we say the dead die little too?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0066	Profit is the twin brother of loss. It could be a profit or a loss, but it's usually when the shopkeeper opens 229,000 new shops, he's got hope for tomorrow. Ninety-six thousand is closed. Well, it's not in that area either, but it's going into another area. Is export increasing? It's increasing. Look at the numbers, look at last month's, look at last year's.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0068	Inflation and foreign currency are increasing, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0069	Are there more tourists?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0070	No.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0071	It's increasing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0072	No, dear, what increase?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0073	Oh, sir, it's not like that, come on, it's going up, so it's very clear.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0074	How much is it for two years...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0075	Ask your Antalya MPs, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0076	Oh, wouldn't that be so, Mr. Secretary? They've fallen.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0077	Is the tourism revenue increasing? It's increasing. Our Finance Minister says my tax revenues are increasing. So, when I look at these...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0262par0078	Come on, it's the kids who laugh at it, come on.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0079	You may have seen the negatives, look, I'm not saying anything about that, but there are positives in this country, there are negatives. Our goal is to make positives better, to make positive, to reduce negatives, but who will make the final decision? People will. When's he gonna give it to you? Very little time, June 24th.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0263par0080	Inshallah, inshallah.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0081	Our motto is that our Azerbaijan brothers and sisters, the eyes of the people are scales. This scale has never been wrong, it has always given everyone what they deserve when they're resorted to it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0264par0082	Mr. Secretary, why are you so afraid that you're using the resources of the state?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0083	I think this will do that on June 24th.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0265par0084	I hope so.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0266par0085	That's what we think.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0086	A friend of ours asked me a question about how many teachers will be appointed in the new era.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0267par0087	We'll appoint them all, we'll appoint them all.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0268par0088	I asked, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0089	Yeah. Now, our 20,000 teachers are interviewing, and we've announced 5,000 teachers. Because we're looking for a five-year premium requirement, because we're looking for a five-year bonus, and if we don't get the schools done on June 8th, and there's no loss of rights on that day, I'm asking my friends on June 5th, 5th, 8th June, and I'm asking my friends, how many were there? We're probably going to make this 5,000 teachers -- that's what we're going to do -- if we don't finish this -- and we're going to do the KPSS for the year 2018 if we don't get the rest, we're going to do the KPSSS. So far, we've assigned 584 thousand, 24,000 teachers, over 600,000 teachers... and the number of teachers when we arrived was about 500-512,000. So go see -- our eastern lawmakers see better -- two of every three teachers you see today have been appointed in our time. Now that I've seen, one of our columnist friends is writing. The teacher isn't everything. The Minister said so. He says so. A teacher is a lot of things. A smart wooden student learns nothing; four walls and a roof teach nothing to a student. If the student is to be taught something, our teachers will teach it. And I'm telling you, we're not backward in any way in terms of education from Europe, but we do have a recession in one field, and our scarcity in that field also affects elementary school, secondary school, high school, and the rest of it. What is it? Preschool education. Science studies in pre-school education have shown that pre-school education is more successful than one year of education, two years of success, and three years of success compared to two years. Last month, the President of France issued a statement saying that we reduced the age of starting the school of Zorun to 3 years old. We interpret it this way: Pre-school education is mandatory for three years. I was in Şırnak yesterday, as your MPs know, I was in Cizre. Our brothers and sisters who went to pre-school education in Şırnak have provided 85 per cent of our children's schooling rate. We've got 8 times, 6 times, 5 times the distance compared to the past. Are we still short? I do. Hopefully, we'll complete it next semester.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0269par0092	Minister, about the scholarship...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0093	Now, we give to all those who want loans, and to those who want scholarships, and to those who need them, more than they can compare to the past.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0269par0094	What are we going to do about the difference between a foreign student and our own children, Minister?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0270par0095	Dear Yım, please don't interfere. You asked, and Mr. Secretary is responding.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0096	The general practice is what it is. Also, Mr. Bektasoglu, Giresun may not have done his projects on the environment yet. I'm going to pass this on to our Minister of Transport, but I'm going to put my faith in this, and I'm going to say the real number. Sometimes when I say the real numbers, a friend of mine says it's not true. This number is not true. You can say, we can't prevent it, but people are witnesses. What do we say? By the time we arrived, the divided road was 6,000 kilometers - 20,000 kilometers in our time. We've done three times what we've done in 80 years. You didn't make such a divided path. When you said, well, people see where you're going. Hopefully this Giresun's freeway will be a divided road, including that. Look, in elementary school books -- people our age, there are no tunnels in Turkey -- there are the first tunnels: the Zigana Tunnel. Everybody knows because you can't make it look like a tunnel. How much is it? The tunnel built in 80 years is 50 kilometers. In our time, it has now opened up to 350 kilometers, and I believe it will also open up to about 100 miles [100 km] of tunnels. So it's better... Those who have been brought back under a decree of the law... must start both the Commission and the Court of Law, and we will proceed immediately. That's the rule of law, that's the rule of law.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0271par0101	Complete, please, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0260par0102	My last sentence... Whatever it takes to do what the law requires, it strengthens the government, it strengthens the administration. The power of governance is based on the law. So we don't part of it at all. Again, Mr. Durmaz (Mr. Durmaz)'s question about the Tokat Airport is: "The deal has been made, but the result has not been disclosed." No, we certainly didn't suspend the projects. We continue every investment program exactly the way it used to be. That's what I'm going to tell our Minister of Transport, and I'm going to make sure your witness is informed, Mr. Durmez. Again, I thank you infinitely.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0272par0106	Thank you, Minister. So the talks on the second chapter are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in the section to your separate ballots after I've processed the motion on that clause, if there is one. There are two motions on Article 9 of the same nature, which I read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement shall be changed in the form of the following, which is mentioned in the second joke of Article 9 of the Common Law Bill 556. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Müslüm Doğan Hüda Kaya Kadri Yıldırım The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0273par0123	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0272par0124	On the first motion of the same nature, Cyrt MP Kadir Yıldırım will speak. Mr. Lightning, please come in, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0274par0127	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. Of course, the term "university" refers to the term "universal" as meaning and universal. While the Arabs wanted to give the university a name, they considered the name "camia" appropriate because the meaning of "camia" means unifying and complementary. The mosque and the mosque mean the same thing, so it's a combination of both mosques and mosques, and it's a assembler. I mean, in college, it's about unification, it's about bringing it together, and it's about integration. So dividing and dividing are not in its own terms, nor in its own terms, which is contrary to the basis. Now, let's say there was a necessity to go into such a division, as you claim. But how is it that you come to such a conclusion without consulting the teachers and students of those universities, without consulting them, without consulting them, and making such a decision? Besides, if I'm not mistaken, you also identify yourself as a conservative power. However, you had to be very concerned about the principle of conservation. Look, the verse says to someone like the Prophet (AS), "x," so when you want to make a decision about something, consult with them who they are, take their opinions, consult with them. It's called the sentence of the verse. If it's conservative, it's important to ask, why don't you follow the principle of consultation? As the Holy Prophet Ali Imam has a very good saying, says: Play with your children until the age of seven, keep them company until they are 15 years old, and consult with them after they have reached the age of 15. I think the last Caliph and the last person who care about consultation is Ali. In this context, the last person is Ali. And Fatiha is about to be read to the funeral of the trustee from Emevis until today. And unfortunately today we are in the Middle East and they are Muslim governments, we are ruling, we are ruling. They represent a totalitarian regime. Let alone a 15-year-old student mentioned by Imam Ali. Unfortunately, they don't feel the need, the need to appeal to one child, adults, and the rest of society. And beyond that, they try to force the dictatorship arguments against society, the people. In the Islamic world, in the Middle East, in the Muslim countries, it is very unfortunate to me that such governments are at work, that they are trying to rule the people, society, modern sectors. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0275par0132	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. On the other proposal of the same nature, Cylarian MP Turabi Kayan will speak. Mr. Kayan, please come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0276par0136	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the AKP has made a great effort to disrupt all the good things in Turkey since it arrived. In the early days when he came to power, the fundamental stone of democracy became obsessed with secularism, and he tried to confuse our society with words that were neither Muslim nor secular. When he failed, he reached out to schools, educational institutions. He raised his own militants in high school, military high schools, colleges, stealing test questions. The goal was not to raise good people, but to raise servants who would serve him and the rulers of the world. They were surprised at what they would do when the doormen who grew up in the educational institutions they had broken down entered the process of destroying the AKP, because Frankenstein's creation would destroy them. On July 20th, they carried out the original coup on July 15th as an excuse for the coup attempt. On the grounds of the State of Emergency, the press has been silenced, the judiciary has been silenced, the House has been silenced, the Ministry of National Education has been surprised by what it does in educational institutions, such as 4+4. In agriculture, we became an outside-dependent country. In agriculture, Turkey, one of the number-one countries in the world, has become able to buy wheat, corn, barley, lentils, nohudu from outside. You shut down the production and factories of the sugar producer who produced the world's healthiest sugar beets and started poisoning the Turkish people with the starch-based sugars of foreign countries. You're pardoning the tax fines of fellow businessmen, making arrangements on loan loans they haven't paid. Because the farmer didn't pay off the water debts he used to produce, you're impounding his property. In order to look cute to strangers, you undermine domestic production by following import-based policies to get their support. So our existing factories are closing down, unemployment is rising, and you need our people for a sip of bread. You're pissing off our skilled entrepreneurs who are going to open up a business. You're feeding our unemployed people charity and trying to turn them into voting stocks. You've adapted the world's most talented evval community to the culture of charity. Now it's time for colleges. I want to get your attention, especially for three of our universities. One is Gazi University, a university with Ataturk's title. The other is the University of Inönu, the Wars of the Inönu, the University of Inönu, which bears the name of heroicness. Another is Istanbul University. We know that you hate Ataturk, we know that you hate Ismet Inönul, we even know that you hate Istanbul University. Why? Because before World War II begins, you're trying to open the doors of Ataturk, the world's most qualified instructors, university teachers, and try to pull your book out because he's taking a giant step towards civilization on his way to the world's number of universities. So, what do you want? Don't we want a modern-day society, a civilized society, a society that believes in science, works, produces? Well, don't you know that with a society that doesn't produce, a society that doesn't work, we'll be slaves to the world? Of course you do. That's what you want. That's what your masters want. Dear friends, you're going to ruin this society by going on like this. When the road is near, before it reaches its end, before it becomes more difficult to get out, come, give it up. In the country's progress, do not massacre this country by tearing, dividing, closing, destroying these universities, which are the greatest educational force in the country's enlightenment. Dear friends, dear AKP people and Mr. Secretary -- I told you in my speech earlier -- you brought the country here. Now you say: tomorrow there will be elections, and the people will decide, and you will see. Let the people decide in the election, but let's go out equally, not by tying one's hands and throwing the other at us. You're using all the government resources. The President who had no trouble today...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0277par0143	Give me an extension, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0276par0144	Madam Secretary, a moment, please. Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0278par0145	I like the first one better. Please complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0276par0146	You give the president every opportunity, you give him every opportunity, but you don't give any of the other candidates the opportunity. The state's television and all the media are with the President, all on your side. Why don't you set them free, make them autonomous, and then enter the race? Then let's see how the people decide, who will the people vote for, who will the people choose? Are you curious? I'll tell you right now, he's gonna pick us. Why would he choose us? Because we've never lied to her, because we've never cheated on her, and we've never been deceived by anyone else, and we've always told her the truth. But since you've been here, you've been lying, you've been cheating, you've always been deceived by others, you've almost been deceived, and I'm telling you, shame on you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0278par0148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has a request for a word, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0279par0152	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, we haven't distinguished any of the values of this country from the other, and we haven't crossed any of our values with the other. We take care of all our values because we are representatives of a civilization that is on its way to restore the nobility of love to the world. Love is the foundation of our cause, our heart is set for conversation, we love the Creator for the Creator. For God's sake, we know this nation, 81 million, even though they don't think the same thing as us. Look, you've got a kid, two kids know, two kids don't think the same thing, mother thinks the same way, mother thinks the same way, father thinks the same way. So in this 81 million, we might think differently, but this different thinking isn't about hating the other one, using the language of conflict, dividing it, breaking it up. Look, there was a Jerusalem incident, 81 million of us thought the same thing, and on July 15th, this nation's will was attacked, and we were all on the same side without any party distinction. So this nation has different views, but there is no conflict or language of hatred, and I wanted to make that clear. If I didn't answer that, he said a word there, and you're against those values, it'd be as if we'd accepted it as if it were true. We're far from what your honor said, that's what I want to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0280par0155	Thank you. Mr. Danış Beştaş, I give you my word on 60.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0281par0158	Mr. President, thank you. In fact, Mr. Secretary has spoken very nice words, which, if we isolate them, I mean, given the subject, the conversation, the arguments, and the truth, there's no way we're not signing those words, but that's not the problem. We're dealing with a typical rule classic: basically, we're going to go out in detail, in general words, in conversation, in love with everyone. I mean, in this country, the public normally has no problems with each other, but with the step-by-step polarization of power today, Turkey is actually experiencing the largest polarized state in its history. Right now the division of universities is also a separate version of the division of society. Every chance we get, we tell the ruling authorities that they call others separatists, we try to unite them, but you divide them. You're not gonna make it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0282par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0283par0162	Mr. Special, come in, I promise you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0282par0164	As I listened to the Minister, it felt as if the President of this country was someone else, the Prime Minister was someone else, and they were going from one arm to the other to Turkey, and they were holding their own parties in their congress, half of this country, half of the country, and half of the country, they didn't say anything else.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0284par0165	No, sir, there's no such thing, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0282par0166	I'd like to live in a country where the Minister is the Minister, where the political language is different, but the Minister is in a line that has nothing to do with reality and is completely 180 degrees backwards from his own president, his own Prime Minister. I wish it were. I assure you, in our future power, people will feel this way in Turkey, that's what they'll think. But to be fair, it's not enough for you to call yourselves fair. Your people should say that you are just. You're saying we don't replace anyone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we're the other 50% that you've always described, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, we've been pushed around, It's worth it if we say it, not when you say it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0284par0169	We're all brothers. You're our brother, you're our brother, we love you, you're our brother.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0282par0170	It is not fair to say fair, but the people will believe that you are just. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0285par0173	People believe it, folks.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0286par0174	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0287par0175	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0286par0177	Mr. President, it's used here as if we're calling half of Turkey a terrorist, half a terrorist.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0288par0178	You said you did.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0289par0179	You did, you even told your partner.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0290par0180	Isn't he?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0291par0181	Look, the esteemed MPs, the Republic of Turkey has 81 million citizens, and all of these citizens have the right to equal citizenship. We're here to threaten Turkey with what we call terrorist organizations, who are trying to divide Turkey, who are hurting our people, who are hurting our people... who are they? PKK is a terrorist organization. Who are they? DHKP-C is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0292par0182	It's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0293par0183	It's a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0291par0184	Who are they? It is a terrorist organization. Who are they? DEAS is a terrorist organization. That is what we say.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0294par0186	Please complete your sentence.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0291par0187	We haven't said a word about our citizens. This is where the expression "majority" is distorted. The matter there is very clear. It's not a definition of our citizens' preferences, nor is it a definition of their will. The point here, sir, is to give it here, give it here, here, here. It's to those who organize it, to the perception that someone like someone is trying to create with certain instruments. Otherwise, there's not a single word here for you to vote for our citizens or over 55 million voters in Turkey. Now that you're polarizing Turkey, you're dividing Turkey. The people who use the expression are actually doing it themselves. Do you know how they do it themselves: you call 50 per cent in Turkey a terrorist. There's no such thing. We don't say that, we don't say that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0295par0190	How many times, run, run, run...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0296par0191	How many times are you gonna tell me? I can barely hold 50 percent. Who said that?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0291par0193	You want to say that we're in this kind of way, to build a base for ourselves, to strengthen your base, to make people the other way around, to expand your base. I'm sorry, you'll get away with it. We don't have that kind of language against any of our citizens. It can't be.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0297par0194	You don't say it's appropriate either.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0195	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0299par0196	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0197	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0198	Wait, what's going on?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0299par0199	We want promises.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0200	I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0201	So let's keep going. Isn't that what you're saying, that we want to maintain this polymix?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0202	Okay. We're saying okay, we're not saying okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0203	Go on. You're saying it now.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0204	We're moving on.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0205	You're telling me to keep going. Look, you said it, I didn't say it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0206	No problem at all. All right. All right. All right.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0207	Well, here's to you one last time...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0209	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm really waiting for this discussion to be over, but it's not.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0298par0211	But, you know, if you guys finish it, it's over! And you're increasing the debate...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0212	We're not allowed to finish when we're done. I mean, sometimes I feel like I'm in Papua New Guinea or something, or I feel like I'm in space.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0301par0213	Why?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0214	The newspapers I've read, the words I've heard with my ear, they mean something different here. My native language is Kurdish, but I think I speak Turkish well. Mr. Erdogan said that he was a hypocrite who voted for me in the presidency and did not vote for the party. Now, what part of this should we discuss?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0302par0215	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0216	Where should we discuss it?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0302par0217	He didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0218	Or isn't he just the same person who pointed directly at the school of Boğaziçi University in terrorism yesterday?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0303par0219	That's hypocrisy. Your tongue is hypocritical.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0220	We're not polarizing society. I just told you, and please don't make fun of the minds of more people.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0304par0221	Mr. President, it's the troublemakers, the troublemakers!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0222	We know exactly what they're saying.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0304par0223	That's what the fitters say.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0300par0224	And we know what he's up to, and...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0305par0225	We're closing this discussion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0304par0226	That's what the fitters say.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0305par0230	Now, I submit the same motions to your votes.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0306par0231	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0305par0232	I'll call the number before I vote for you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0307par0233	I didn't finish my words.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit08spe0305par0234	Those who accept the same motions... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0305par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 9th Session of the 96th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in the vote of the same proposals on Article 9 of the Law Bill 556. Now, I'm going to put the motions back to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0308par0005	No, let's do it with the electronics.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0305par0006	We'll do it with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the clock.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0308par0009	If you're so confident, give me a minute, why give me three minutes? You say there is, there is, there is.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0305par0010	Anyway, next time we'll give you five minutes, Mr. Ozgur. [[The vote continued with the electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the motions are not accepted. We continue our talks at 556 rows of the Bill of Law. The commission and the government are in place. I now submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are three motions on the 10th article, two of which are the same property: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 10th article of the current Law Bill 556 rows be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Huda Kaya Sibel Yiğitalp Müslüm Doğan Behçet Yıldırım Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0309par0026	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0305par0027	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0310par0030	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group, HDP, on Article 10 of the Law Bill 556. First, in the June 24th election, I salute the youngest, handsomest presidential candidate, Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, who is the candidate of all peoples and beliefs in Turkey. Mr. Demirtaş has a vision of this election on June 24th: the June 24th elections will create a crack in Turkey's politics that will affect the next ten years. Either the only man embodyed in the AKP mentality will declare the authoritarian regime's final victory and become a full dictatorship by folding up the atrocities so far, or its ongoing democracy and struggle will continue by strengthening its understanding and struggle throughout the republic's history. While the AKP bloc is trying to market a bad product with a advertising campaign, we must go to the polls with a radical democratic stance, building a noose with the public at every step of the way to work, justice, peace, secularism, freedom and equality. After stating these things, now, the AKP, which divides the camping, polarizing and beautiful country, has brought a bill to divide universities today, and my views on this are as follows: If this is adopted, this bill will result in the division of universities, certainly not in the best interest of the public, it is openly contrary to the scientific planning approach and academic trends. A university's reputation, its tradition, its protected structures, determines its culture. The division of Istanbul University, one of Turkey's deep-rooted pupil institutions, is now an echo, and the identity of this institution, which must be treasured, is to be taken away. Istanbul University has always been a source of Turkey's pride in the world's university rankings, which has been successful in grad schooling, research and development. According to international scientific indexes in this natural development process, Istanbul University has been the most scientific broadcast university in Turkey in the past decade. The strategic plan of Istanbul University, which was elected last year from 10 research universities by the YÖK, was designed as a result of comprehensive scientific evaluations, which, on the contrary, constitutes the strongest aspect of the university that allows for interdisciplinary research. The division of any university must be based on objective and academic measures, not on everyday, variable decisions. There are many universities in the world that have more students than Istanbul University. The trend today is not to divide universities but to strengthen them by combining between disciplines to facilitate research. Between 2000-2015, 92 universities were merged in the European Union. It is not in the interest of the country and science to divide universities with small-scale universities, which have a huge advantage in the richness of the entourages. In short, the division of Istanbul University will cause irreparable losses, as it would never make two new universities stronger. What matters is the quality of universities. The SEC documents stress that the basic need for higher education in our country is no longer to increase the number of universities and universities, but to increase the quality of existing universities. It's not possible to connect the same crowded universities to two different universities without touching the existing quotas, but to reduce the oversized student quotas of the faculty. There are 11 states and 46 foundations in Istanbul. Despite the intense efforts of the professors, the YÖK has found that instead of reducing the quota burden of Istanbul University, which still gives Turkey's top-quality graduates, it is necessary to build a new university, a new university's teaching staff can be created by valuable young professors, such as many other examples in the past, who have been raised and raised by Istanbul University. The open and normal teaching function can all be transferred to these universities. To this end, it is not right to tear apart an ancient tile with the capacity to develop high and high quality graduate education and research. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0311par0040	Please complete, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0310par0041	In this regard, our opinion is that universities have to decide their own fates. The first drafts appear to date at least three years ago, and so far, this bill has not been shared with the Istanbul University Senate and its academic arm in any way, not through a scientific evaluation process, so the bill has not provided a valid reason when it is being discussed in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Higher education strategies should be based on comprehensive and objective reports to be prepared to participate in all components of the academy, and must be formulated with a long-term plan. Istanbul University has a comprehensive strategic plan as a result of comprehensive assessments, and there is not a single point in this strategic plan that would justify the division of the university. I say we leave the decision to the university, to the students, to the professors, to the General Assembly, with respect.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0311par0044	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. The other two motions are the same property, so I'm going to read them and process them. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 38th pearl, which is under the 10th article of the 556-trial bill in question, is the 53rd and 53rd to come after the declaration, and is expected to be replaced.) We propose and propose the addition of the declaration of Zonguldak Bült Ecevit University after the declaration of Hatay Mustafa Kemal University. Bornt Turan Mehmet Doğan Kubat Halil Eldemir The signatures of the other motion are: Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Ancient Durmaz Ali Hero Didem Engin Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We're leaving it to appreciation, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0312par0063	We agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0311par0064	Giresun MP Bkent Yener Bektaşoglu will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Bektasoglu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The commission has submitted to discretion, the government has agreed to your motion, according to him...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0068	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the High School Law to change the Constitution of the Law and the Law. I'd like to share something with you as soon as possible. I hereby salute you with respect, with love. So, again, we're dealing with a new plan and a new project of a mindset that's in the cease-and-desisting, self-destructive system. AKP President is now Turkey's most radical and successful...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0314par0070	Don't you do that! Where was Giresun University divided? How was Giresun University founded, Mr. Bulent Bey?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0071	...made up the high infrastructure of education, completed its construction, decided to divide our universities, whose name was universalized by academic savings and production.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0314par0072	How was Giresun University founded, Mr. Bulent? Please, don't tell me that! At least don't tell me!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0073	Salih, listen! I'm afraid that's the whole point of this bill. They're supposed to divide and multiply! But that's not possible.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0314par0075	How was Giresun University founded? Please answer this.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0315par0076	Mr. Cora, please... please don't distract Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0077	Something divided from the main center never reproduces, shrinks, vanishes, dear friends. The government doesn't mean well. If he wanted to increase the number of colleges, then he'd want to build new universities and build them. As a matter of fact, we discussed and voted for their proposals in the Commission. But, of course, even a university degree would make an effort to divide the university and destroy secular, scientific, modern education. I think we can agree on that. That's why you don't look for merit, you're appointed co-chairs. He sees colleges as a place of employment. That's what the amendment to the regulations of the academics was for. And now there's going to be staffing at divided universities. That's what they mean. Dear friends, the problem with the university is that it's not about dividing, it's about freedom and autonomy. It's because political power has turned into a backyard, it's because it's not being destroyed by 12 September dictators, it's not being replaced by a democratic, academic superstructure, it's because the crypto structures that still exist in their administration are not being cleaned up, it's also because the investigations in this direction have been subsidized, it's protected and protected by registered dignitaries, it's academics who have been framed for various reasons, it's education and teaching. Look, today, in our universities, the future of our children is sadly blackened by a completely madrassic mentality rather than a college education, which has been strengthened by scientific, contemporary, universal values and standards, competing with international equivalents. This educational system at public colleges is using our children. Thus, students are referred to private or foreign universities, where the education of those who have money -- the education of those who do not have it -- is separated. However, the state must give education and training to all its citizens on equal terms. Education is the most fundamental constitutional, human right. Let's start a training campaign for colleges. In a year, we'll have the will to solve all our problems. Our students have many problems, especially housing. If you remember, we said every holiday is a salary bonus. We made a pledge with a notary document. You said there was no source. You rejected our proposals, you raised the pot, you booed us in the squares, and then you took this, and you took two thousand liras, and you offered it as an election bribe, making it a holiday bonus. Like this, you take every promise we make, steal it, rip it off and put it in front of society like it's your own project. Look, one of our projects was to build modern, quality dorms for every student, and that's our promise of elections. Come on, do this too. We'll allow you to steal our students' commitment to resolving their housing problems. We'll let that happen, and we'll let you. Mr. President, dear friends, as a result, this bill is a product of arbitraryness, not born of a need, has no justification. It will not benefit anyone, but it will result in consequences that will not be undone in the future. Such an important decision is to be dictated to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Without discussion, without judgment, without wrongs, with the shareholders of education, with academics, with unions, without exchange of ideas. For 16 years, our education system has already been messed up, but the decision to go on foot is almost final, as is the decision to do so, with the decision of a late Prime Minister and a government going to the election, it shouldn't be possible to make such a decision. I warn the ruling and MPs who are deaf to the reactions of our young and academics from here, that you should give up this practice while you're nearing it, and that this bill must be left after June 24th. It would be wise to withdraw the bill to the Commission, but it doesn't matter, you know, for days in front of universities, don't divide our universities. The reaction of young people and academics who act will be huge in the chest. On June 24th, they'll take care of the schools and teach you the lessons you need.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0316par0085	Mr. Bektaşoglu, how was Giresun University founded?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0086	Whatever you're interrupting, we'll put together after June 24th. Whatever you've destroyed, we'll repair and strengthen the basic values of our republic within the democratic parliamentary system. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a second...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0317par0089	One second isn't enough, let's give it a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0091	Friends, I'd like to share my final sentence with you: I think the time is almost complete.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0318par0093	Don't stop, keep moving.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0319par0094	Let's hope so. Let's hope so.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0313par0095	Hopefully, after 24 June, we will solve the problems of education with our educational president Muharrem Tüyük. Good luck with that. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0320par0099	Thank you, Mr. Bektasoglu.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0321par0100	Mr. Bulent, there's only one thing that's done, and that's Muharrem Tünce.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0320par0101	I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The amendment to Article 6 has been recommended.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0322par0104	We want a sufficient number of decisions. Since we're in the same boat, we're in the same boat...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0320par0105	You asked for the number of decisions for Bektaşoglu?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0322par0106	For both of them, it will be voted together.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0320par0107	I'm going to leave the commission with discretion and submit these motions to your votes as the government agrees, and I'm going to look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor, all those in denial. I'll vote on the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There are enough decisions, the same motions have been accepted. Now, according to the motions adopted, I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 10th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 11th article, and I'm having them read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 11 of Law Bill 556, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the expression "information, impropriety or lack of contact with them should be changed into "not being punished for the crimes of membership and mensuperity. " Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0323par0124	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0320par0125	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lion.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0324par0127	Mr. President and the General Assembly, I salute you. Yes, I'll talk about the relevant matter. We want the expression to be changed because he has not been punished for the crimes of membership, impotence, or association with them, because we have seen how much it has been abused. How do we know how unfairly, unconscionably used it? For example, physicians, the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, war is a public health issue. He said, "They have been declared terrorists; Ayşe Teacher, children should not die." He said, "They have been declared terrorists." I mean, how are we supposed to trust the law when it's like this? Once again, Napoleon said, "Bring me a sentence which is unconcerned, and I will execute you with it." So bring a sentence that isn't open to comment, and I can still execute you with it. Why? So the current power or future power, however, can easily open it up to abuse and silence its opponent. But believe me, one day this clause will strike those who break the law. Don't say I didn't warn you, we've seen a lot of examples. Guys, we talked about this stuff last week. See, there are 36 languages spoken in Turkey right now, so it's a huge wealth. But unfortunately, there are only two, three sections, universities, about these 36 languages. In Turkey, for example, the Arabic language spoken in Mesopotamia is pre-matrix, Syrianic hakeza, Armenian, Çerçe, Lazca, Georgian, Romanca, Kumukı, Ladino, Ossetçe, Adinight, Albanian, Tatar, Greek, Gagavuz, Abazaca totals 36 languages. Unfortunately, colleges don't have episodes about them, and people are going to have to learn these languages from different countries in the world. Most of their homes are here, but there's no chapter on them. What happens if you divide the universities after we don't provide them with that? What happens if you change their names? Akkadians, friends, were the world's first empire and largest state in Mesopotamia. So Akkadian was born in Mesopotamia, but unfortunately it is now taught in Akkadian America, and over 100 volumes of the dictionary is now written in the United States of America. There is no chapter on Akkadian in Turkey. Colleges related to these ancient languages and beliefs must be opened. Look, there are still members of the faith of Christianity, the faith of persecution, Islam, in Midyat, Nusaybin, Kızıltepe, Mardin. Still in Syrian, Arabic, Kurdish, dialects are spoken, but only Arabic, Syrian and Kurdish are studied almost hollowed out at Mardin University; there are no deeper chapters and research. See, Malule is the only village of Damascus, the only village that speaks the dialect of the Syrian, the Holy Jesus. The Syrian Damascus administration opened an institute at Damascus University. When we say Syria, it's called "Esad dictator." He even opens an institute there knowing the importance of these ancient languages, but we -- I'm from this village -- they speak Arab, they speak Kurdish, they speak Arabic in dialect and they speak four languages, such as in Malule. No institute has been opened here; these languages have not been recorded, preserved. But Turkey... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0325par0135	Please complete, Mr. Aslan.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0324par0136	And as you can see, this village is a miniature Mardin, built entirely by stone processing. It's supposed to be a life-threatening fan, a display, and the written oral culture here, literature, history, is supposed to be recorded, but unfortunately, we're losing this wealth day and day by day, abandoned to its fate, abandoned to destruction. Look, guys, there are universities in the world that are known in automotive, like Germany, in technology, in the United States of America, in sociology, France. So why would people go there to read these chapters, or would people from outside come to Turkey to read a chapter in Turkey? We need to think about what Turkey is famous for and what has become famous in the world. Again, I spoke in my last talks, and we need to stop brain migration, and we need to regain our people who have been fired by the KHK. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0326par0139	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that a year's notice in Article 11 of Law Bill 556 shall be changed into six months. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Didem Engin Ali Hero Ancient Don't Stop Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0327par0153	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0326par0154	Mersin MP Aytuğ Thrower will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Horseman.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0328par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a commitment to the motion we made regarding Article 11 of the Bill of Law, which tries to divide and multiply universities 556 rows. I also salute the MPs who are aware that not colleges are divided into single cells. Dear friends, what does Article 11 say? It says: "The founders, executives and staff of private teaching institutions cannot have committed some crimes, nor should any contact with these crimes be related." Okay, well, it is our greatest hope that those who run a educational institution are not involved in crime. I say, let's not bring these people into the House that you didn't bring into a teaching institution. The same crimes, similar crimes, related to these crimes, the people involved in these crimes, let's not bring them into this House, shall we? Look, I'll give you a few examples of what crimes you're listing in the bill. You're saying, for example, that those who commit crimes against the authority of the state and the dignity of its organs, can they not be private school administrators and MPs? It shouldn't be. What do you think about Greece coming to 18 islands and raising flags? They came to 18 islands and raised flags, and you committed crimes against the sign of sovereignty of the state, and you didn't complain. You're not supposed to be in the council; you're not putting the teacher in, you're entering. One of the most important organs in this state is the legislature. The legislature states: "Unlawful votes are invalid. " But this is a person who is committing a crime against the dignity of the body, and you applaud this person. You won't let the teacher into the school, but you're going to the House, even though you committed this crime. Another crime is a crime against the functioning of constitutional order. Let no one who commits this crime enter the school, okay, let him enter the House? I don't want him in the House. Then I don't know the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I don't respect it. Where will you put the man who says, "Where will you put him?" Head of state, right? That's your understanding. Three, you're saying that those who commit crimes of abuse of trust should not be the administrators of schools. The Justice and Development Party has committed the crime of abuse of the greatest confidence and has voted by lawmakers, with your votes. People trusted you, entrusted their factories, you didn't deserve that trust, you sold factories, especially sugar factories. You don't let executives in the school, you enter the House. You sold TELEKOM, you sold TECEL, you sold SECHA, these were the institutions entrusted to you. They entrusted you with hospitals, you became a tenant when you were a host in hospitals. Etibanki, the ports, or the country, you sold a parcel by your Deputy Prime Minister, so you abused trust. We will only declare the extraordinary state for three months. You said, "People have trusted you, you have abused trust." Today, 658 days, you didn't hear wrong, for 658 days, you've been trying to run the country with extraordinary behavior, so you've abused people's trust. You have abused my trust, and I have grown a beard because of you for 658 days, and I protest against you. Another issue is that he does not enter schools that are corrupting the contract. Very good, don't let him in. God damn whoever's involved in this contract. And how many tenders in this country have there been no misdemeanor involved? Which one of you raised your hand and cursed them here, or did you do something against them? So, why are you guys coming in here? So, another clause, your suggestion, you're saying that if he's cleared the value of criminal assets, they shouldn't be managers at school. So, where are you going to put Reza Zarrab?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0329par0167	Complete, please, Mr. Pitcher.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0328par0168	How are people going to trust you when you don't send the files about the four ministers from here to the Supreme Court, and you're indirectly laundering them? You enter the House, you don't bring teachers into schools, is that your idea of justice? Look, more importantly, you're saying: "Don't let those who are involved in the state's national security be the executives of private teaching institutions, with structures, formations, groups, membership, mensubstances, relationships. It's very good, it's very good. Turn around, look at you, which one of you had no relationship with ▪ in the past? Don't worry about it. Don't you have any contact? Which one of you had no contact with that structure? You sit nice here in the House, don't let them in there! Who sat down with the PKK and talked to it? For ISIS, these are Sunni angry young people. Who called them? Was it me? You'll be in touch with them, but you won't contact anyone else. I wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0330par0172	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0331par0177	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that we have denied any false and disemboweled claims against our previous group of lawmakers. They expressed much more than that, much more than that, in every election period, in the squares, on relevant platforms, and in the presence of our nation, we were restored to work. Our nation gave us the task of running the country, seeing that we had the license to run the country, and gave it to us. Therefore, the most important result of that is that we do not agree with any of this and that it is baseless for us is that our nation has made a choice. We have to express it. The other thing is, our attitude towards terrorist organizations is very clear. From the DHKP-C to the PKK, until the DEA, our commitment to terrorist organizations will continue the same way, and our fight against them will continue the same way.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0330par0180	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0331par0181	The initiative and activities of terrorist organisations to divide our country will never be permitted because the EC PARTI is a guarantee of Turkey's unity, of Turkey's unity. AK PARTY is a party in Turkey that has gained the trust of all of our nation -- vote, not vote -- in Turkey. I'd like to present this to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0330par0182	Thank you. Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0332par0184	Mr. President, what I understand from Mr. Deputy Director of the Group is that, yes, we commit these crimes, but every time the public forgives us. I wonder, if the AK PARTY loses the election in this election, are they going to lose because they're guilty? It's not right to see our people in such a way, just as a position of justice. Justice prevails in court, but what is in the hearts of the people is something else.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0330par0187	Mr. Special, please, I give you my word on 60.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0333par0189	Mr. President, in the previous session, Mr. Mush came to a certain point and then turned the business around. You call 50 percent terrorists. When I said that, we didn't say that. He said that. Before Erdogan's action on February 12, 2017, I read it exactly, in quotes: Because April 16 will also be an answer to July 15th, and there will be an important exit to July 15th. The position of those who say no is actually to be next to the 15th of July. Don't let anyone pull it around. Mr. Erdoğan's speech on March 11, 2017 in Çemeköy: You should know that this is the step of those who say no. These are the ones who are now supporting separatist terrorist organizations, these are the ones. Why can't they say yes? Because it will blacken their future in this country.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0334par0193	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0335par0194	Look, don't pull left and right.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0333par0195	Mr. Erdogan says: "These are terrorists, those who are with the terrorist, those who clearly support July 15th." We asked the public how many of them were told. 50 percent of the people said no, and we're still dealing with someone who's trying to contact terrorist organizations who didn't vote for him in the election yesterday, and who's trying to call half the community mufti. We're not going to bend, we're not going to bend, we're not going to say anything, we're going to stand up for it, we're not going to actually say it, we're not going to say it back to the vice president. That's the spirit. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0199	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0337par0200	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0202	Mr. President, you've just been voted by the nation once. You committed these crimes. Did I misunderstand? Yes, you misunderstood. Our nation has already paid for what it considers to be a criminal in that sense.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0338par0204	He will give, and he will give, and he will give in the chest, and you will give in the court.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0339par0205	The courts will also decide, God willing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0206	Calm down, calm down! Besides, the courts decide for the Turkish nation. The decision maker is our nation here, our nation's decision is the right one. The other issue is that the honorable lawmakers are not related to our nation, but to those who run this campaign.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0340par0209	He's very clear, very clear.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0210	Otherwise, there's no testimony to our nation against the receiver. It's disrespectful to take it out of here and make it look like it's a tribute to the people who run the campaign, to those who organize it, to our nation.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0341par0211	Don't let the AK PARTY make you vice president.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0212	Well, don't let him do you, you'll be hired at any moment.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0342par0213	Mr. Mush, please complete.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0341par0214	You make a correction every day.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0215	Now, another thing: he's just made a statement about hypocrisy, and another group of vice presidents just said it; they don't understand it, they don't understand it. Here's the statement: someone's causing trouble. I'm reading it, and I don't know where you've read it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0343par0216	Kayseri tells his people...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0217	You know what this is? I'll vote for the President, but I won't vote for the EC PARTY in Parliament.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0343par0218	Okay, that's what the MHP guys are gonna do.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0219	Not the MHP.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0344par0220	That's what they're gonna do.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0343par0221	They're setting you up for trial?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0222	▪ What do you call such a thing? Is that even possible? Are we ready to ruin this game? This game, this scam, you know who it is. Hopefully, we'll bury this group of hypocrites together on June 24th. (CHP rows) That's what I just said. So someone here is trying to create a perception, an organization, statements to people who are trying to build this organization.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0345par0224	The gardener is making this organization. He says to vote for him.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0336par0225	It's not right to pull them out of context and pull them out of context. Sir, he's telling this to the MHP. We're not telling anyone. We've formed an alliance with the National Movement Party, we've formed the Cumhur alliance; those who have just said where the word is going know it, it's because of its discomfort. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0346par0227	Thank you. Mr. Danış Beştaş, here you are, and I promise you your place according to 60.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0347par0230	We keep saying "okay." But we don't say "keep going," we just want words.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0348par0231	People say ok. People say ok. Over 1 million, the president said 1,200,000.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0347par0232	It's now approaching 1.5 million, and it's almost June 24th. Mr. President, first of all, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group has told you about me. In fact, every chance we get, we're out of the election, blessing the chest. I'm offering our nation's appreciation that a ruling party, who boasts, sends politicians to prison. The chest is true, in politics, the chest and the politician are punished -- I say it in the face -- whether it's chosen or not. But it also makes it clear how hypocritical and double standard policy that a ruling party, which received 6.5 million votes, sent lawmakers to prison with instructions to do so. Besides, the chest is not a place for trial, there is a serious distinction. We say that the government will answer in court because it's the practice of practical crime now, and they're trying to contradict everything they say and they're trying to express it here, and today in this country, presidential candidate Edirne is still being held hostage as a hostage, people, please consider that as well.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0349par0237	There are two motions on the 12th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 12th amendment of the Law Bill, 556 rows, which is being discussed, be changed in the following way. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Didem Engin Ali Hero Ceyhun İrgil The following jokes are added to Article 6 of Law 12 - 5580. "In institutions operating under this Law, those who successfully complete the programmes set by the Ministry can work and open a business in their workplaces with the end-of-school documents they complete. For those in this situation, no other occupational certificate is required. In accordance with the program, the courses to be completed, level assessment and level completion exams are determined by the Ministry as to the costs and the cost of the examinations and the basis of the examinations for those assigned to the other exams required by the programme. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0350par0250	We disagree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0349par0251	Bursa MP Ceyhun İrgil will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0351par0254	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, in these three years, in these 25th and 26th terms, there's been a lot of talk about these universities, but nothing's affected you, nothing's been through your walls, we haven't even leaked a little light back there, I'm afraid we haven't been able to show most of them. Maybe it's our fault too, maybe we didn't tell it well enough, and since we didn't have enough media resources, we couldn't put our problems to good use, and we couldn't bring it to society. But there is a truth, whether you accept it or not, one day you will face it. In this country, university rectors do incredible things to cover up their bias, bias, and very serious injustices, to make themselves useful, and in their condition, not in their attitudes, they have no chance of entering the world's top 100, 500, 1,000, nowhere. Look, Artuklu University... Now, I'm here to ask the Minister of National Education: He always tells us that he cares about Ataturk, that he honors the values of the republic, that he even gets his name from there. Why was the name of the great Ataturk University at the entrance of Ataturk University at a university of fifty-six years, in which Ataturk was named for the first time at Ataturk University? Six months ago, when Mr. Recep was on his way there, during a visit, why isn't he still hanging? When we asked them about it, they said, "They're breaking the code." His name's ruining the aesthetic. Since when does the name Mustafa Kemal change aesthetics when the name Ataturk stands on top of a university? If that's true, this university chancellor must be told his place, and it must never be accepted. Other than that, you've witnessed these biased, ruthless, unconscionable attitudes of these rectors, you've seen a lot of them in your own cities, but they've hurt a lot of people. You've challenged all these whistleblowers, all these informants, you've given them a bonus.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0352par0257	Erzurum doesn't have one.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0351par0258	Yes, you will, sir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0352par0259	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0351par0260	Okay, you'll see, teacher, don't interrupt my speech, then answer me. Okay, I'm already calling it a bet, so come fix it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0352par0261	That's not a claim. I'm Erzurum, there's no such thing!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0351par0262	Okay, come fix it, my teacher's here.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0352par0263	That's a total lie.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0353par0264	Don't interfere. You address the General Assembly, Mr. Irgil.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0354par0266	Yeah, but he's ruining it here.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0355par0267	You lift the TC, and then you say, "No."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0354par0268	You said you didn't have the TC, you objected.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0355par0269	Who moved the TC? You removed the TC (TC) from the agricultural bank.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0356par0270	No, brother, that's not true, that's not true. No one is bothered by the name of Ataturk, just the opposite. We hang the name of Ataturk with honor.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0357par0271	Mr. Aydemir... please address the General Assembly. Mr. Aydemir, you will answer later if necessary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0358par0272	Are you going to add to that?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0357par0273	Go ahead, talk, finish.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0358par0274	The name of Ataturk University, at the wall entrance behind the eagle statue, has been removed, that's it, you'll see.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0359par0275	That's not true, brother. I am in Erzurum every day, and we are proud with the name of Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0358par0276	Exactly. Well, look at it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0359par0277	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0358par0278	Okay, you'll see.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0360par0279	Okay, don't interfere. Mr. Irgil, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0358par0281	Now, friends, in the end, there have been many similar events, thousands of college professors have been expelled from universities, NGOs have been defeated, are they all lies too? Thousands of professors are currently unemployed. We've talked about this over and over again, and now we're done talking about it, and that's the end of the era, so that's the end of the process. One year, three years of student forgiveness, at least on the basis of the election, or thanks to your choice, will finally come to this House tomorrow with an election opportunity. I'm glad we've managed to achieve student forgiveness, and somehow we'll all be able to pass this law together, so thank you all very much. It was also a big mistake to get the name Bursa University out of front of the University of Uludağ on September 12 and Bursa was in great difficulty with it, thanks to our teacher Lale, we made a suggestion on the Commission, and you accepted it, so we thank him, too. We call it good, we call it true. But here's the thing: from the point of training, not just us -- as our group speakers have just said -- you know that the whole community is not satisfied, let's just skip everyone else -- President Recep Tayyip Erdogan himself is not happy about it, he is not pleased with it. So I hope that in the coming period of national education, you will be able to do much better things in the 27th term, embrace the entire community, and give up the rights of faculty, professors and professors who have been unjustly expelled from universities, who have been unemployed, as you have forgiven the students, before this Parliament is closed. I hope you'll get your rectors in order. I hope you'll stop this biased course because it's not just education that you're putting dynamite in the bottom of, it's the future of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0360par0284	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Minister has a request for word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0361par0290	Mr. President, I spoke to the Director of Ataturk University. He said his name was not to be downloaded from any part of the university, so I wanted to submit it to the information of our MPs. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0362par0292	No magnifying glass? We'll show you. It's a montage, if you don't see it, don't take credit.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0363par0294	Thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the second joke of Article 12 of the Common Law Bill 556 shall be changed in the following way. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Müslüm Doğan Huda Kaya Erol Dora In accordance with the scheduled schedule, you do not receive a test fee from those who take the exam for the examinations required by the course finishing, level detection and level completion examinations. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0364par0309	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0363par0310	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0365par0313	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the High School Law, 556 rows, and to the motion we have made in Article 12 of the Court of Law to change certain provisions. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, under this clause, new jokes are added to Article 6 of Special Teaching Institutions Act 5580. At the end of the period when policies on education in Turkey come to education, the process of ignoring basic aspects of education, such as social mobility, social justice, peace and equality and training is increasingly transformed into a structure that meets market demands. In addition to this context, it would be pointless to assess the change in this article. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to draw your attention to another matter. See, as a right, the point of the issue of academic freedoms in our country is quite alarming. In the 27th article of our Constitution, everyone has the right to free learning, teaching, explaining, spreading, and research in these areas. The scientific autonomy is guaranteed in Article 130 of the Constitution. Academic freedom and autonomy have been taken to the highest level of legal protection due to the freedom of science and art guaranteed in Article 27 of the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, the social and legal value of freedom of science and art requires averting its deterrent effects on academic freedoms, even in an extraordinary way. Applications that are incompatible with the subject of the extraordinary state of intervention against academic freedom, which does not contain sufficient evidence, and therefore cannot be tested by the principle of quantitativeism do not correspond with the constitutional position of freedom of science and art. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is clear to everyone that the existence of practices that are incompatible with the extraordinary situation in which there is serious interference in this freedom environment, which is essential for academics in our country. I'm just saying it's common knowledge because the lynching policies against the signatory academics, which have been carried out just because they have signed the Declaration of Peace, continue to keep their mind alive after the cancellation of their contract -- as it were seen -- with the State of Emergency, to be expelled from their duties with the KHKs, to be disciplined by hunger and poverty, and eventually to be forced to be alone, step by step, to be driven to despair. Mr. President, high-value lawmakers can't be a democracy without freedom of expression. The task of the university and the academic is to share with the community the ideas that the university and its academics have finally come to, the reasoning and the judgment of conscience. The criticism of the idea is a sign of democracy, and the punishment of those who express the idea is a sign of authoritarianism. The attempt by academics to be punished by political will for their views on the country's problems harms academic freedom and, moreover, social development. On the 40th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Lima Declaration on the autonomy of higher education institutions and academic freedom has been announced to the public. In this declaration, academic freedom means the freedom of an academic environment member to acquire, develop, and deliver information through research, study, discussion, documentation, production, creation, teaching, teaching, or writing. Let's not forget, saying an idea does not harm the country's democracy, but however provocative, disturbing, or minority, freedom of speech should be the most fundamental freedom for scientists in particular. Because, as stated in the Lima Declaration, universities are obliged to monitor the rights of people. In addition, the Council of Europe's numerous recommendations, specific to the academy field, point to the freedom of academic freedom in research and education, expression, information distribution, research and freedom of truth without restrictions. Dear lawmakers have shown that the violation of history, academic freedom and university autonomy has always resulted in intellectual regression, hence a social and economic pause.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0366par0323	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0365par0324	Thank you, Mr. President. I once again say that this alarming progress in our country must be reversed and that freedom of science in universal standards must be taken for the facility of our universities as quickly as possible, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0366par0327	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 13: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 13 of the Law Bill 556 be removed from the draft text. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mahmut Toğrul Sibel Yiğitalp Huda Kaya Müslüm Doğan Aycan İrmez Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0367par0340	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0366par0341	Şırnak MP Aycan İrmez will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irmez.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0368par0344	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group for Article 13 of the Law Bill 556. First, I salute you all. Unfortunately, as the AKP government has interfered with everything since it came to power, its intervention in the education system has continued openly and especially recently. First, it is important to point out that the AKP government, which is trying to control the entire country with a totalitarian mentality, has targeted universities as its final goal to conquer them, is typical of fascism. This bill is designed to make scientists a political officer of power, a paid employee, whose purpose and mission is to present information to the public in the interest of humanity. As there is no road map specified by the SEC on this bill, it is clear that no healthy information has been given to university partners. Dear friends, the development of universities takes place in a long period of time along with a certain collection of knowledge and experience that has been given great work. Colleges are one with all their structures and components. It is not acceptable for this entire process to be divided, broken up by political power, and transformed into universities, with great challenges in the historical process, with political opinions and as an election sanction. There is no scientific explanation why the AKP government divides and divides universities. This arrangement is carried out entirely by ideological opinions. The fact that any university component has been asked to be legalized without the opinion of any of its students, from the training level to the students who have earned the right to education here in a thousand years, also reveals the real intention of the bill. One of the main goals of this bill is to prepare new grounds for political staffing. Dear friends, we all bear witness that the classic logic of colonialism and imperialism, the division-government policy, is being applied to universities by the AKP. There is no scientific response to the fact that the AKP is dividing universities, let alone disciplines, while it is recognized as necessary to combine positive and social sciences, by losing the validity of the interdisciplinary division that is now under its universal nature. Scientifically, it's only political pragmatism that can explain these practices that don't correspond to the spirit of time. However, scientific, autonomous, primary language education must be addressed on a political level in terms of the country's future, not to be sacrificed to election and political interests. Dear friends, the AKP's government considers employment in higher education with an understanding of political staffing. This is also the reason why over 5,000 academics were expelled during the State of Emergency, and more than 400,000 peace-signing professors were terminated. That is one of the reasons why the presidential elections have been lifted and all decisions on university administration have been raised in the university chancellor's office. In universities, those in the position of chancellor ignore the real staff needs of universities and assign university staff to close environments, such as co-friends, relatives, and those recommended by political power. It is unacceptable for universities to be removed from scientific integrity and transformed into political power's domain of influence. It is evident that most of the universities in Turkey could not go beyond being sign universities, that higher education was quickly privatised and abandoned to the fate of the market; that its public, scientific, autonomous and democratic character was almost completely corroded. In addition, it is not acceptable for many universities to be divided into major universities to produce new signs, to form new sign universities in an environment in which certain capital groups, congregations and sects are pursued. With these interventions, it is clear that the reputations and brand values that universities have gained over the years will be lost, and the quality of education for each university will be reduced. For all these reasons, this bill must be withdrawn immediately and the AKP must withdraw its hand from the universities. Colleges are one, indivisible. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0369par0354	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes. All in favor... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change of Article 13 of the Law Bill 556 in the following way. The following joke is added to Article 12 of Law 13-5580. "In addition to teaching activities in their institutions, various courses that operate under this Law can be used to produce goods and services at the cost of participation of educational staff and trainees, in accordance with the content of their programmes. The programmes for the production of goods and services are determined by the Ministry of Finance, as well as other procedures for the implementation of this joke, as well as the costs for the production activities. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Didem Engin Ali Hero Ancient Don't Stop Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0370par0370	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0369par0371	İstanbul MP Selina Doğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0371par0374	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge from the Higher Education Law on the 13th Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. I salute you all. In its most rude definition, universities are educational institutions that provide high levels of education, scientific research and publication, which contain institutions and institutions such as faculty, institutes, institutes of higher education and higher education. The universities are also dynamic organisms with character, scientific traditions, beyond this crude definition. There are colleges in the world that date back a thousand years. Don't look at the fact that in recent years in Turkey, they've lost their voice, they've been silenced; universities take a stand in the face of important social events, they have suggestions, they criticize the authorities, it's the nature of universities. To obey everything, to submit is against the nature of science and universities. Even so, you can't open, close, and divide universities like they're opening elementary schools or upper secondary schools. That's right, sometimes colleges need to be reduced, sometimes they need to be raised. As of his district, he has completed his mission and universities that are no longer efficient can be shut down, new ones can be opened in other areas. However, even when you're opening an elementary school and a high school, you have to do infrastructure studies, but you have to think about it over and over and over again to open, close, and dissect. See, Turkey learned that the universities would be divided by the President's statement at the AK PARTI group meeting: We decided to establish Malatya Turgut Özal University to keep the name of Rahmetli Özal in its hometown. I won't mention your name, the current university there is a lot of students, so we'll split it in half, and then we'll build the University of Turgut Özal and Malatya will have two separate universities. I will not mention his name. He calls himself Mr. Ismet Inönu, the 2nd President of this country. Yes, this decision was made public in a sentence that smelled of hatred and reckoning. Then how can we trust this bill? The division of universities with their staff, their academic staff, and their student was based on what need, and who was asked? Let us say that this decision is a continuation of the process of appointing the presidents. It's part of an operation to take over the Academys. This decision is a major blow to the university organisation. Mr. President says there is a demand from the public for the division of universities. Until today, we have faced no other demands but protests. Aren't students, academics, people who own their universities? Just today, dozens of college students have come here to ask that their schools not be divided. Why doesn't the government want to hear this? We're sure that all students and teachers, especially students whose schools have been divided, will teach you a lesson on June 24th. After that, you will wonder, " Where did we go wrong? ' The sign's full of colleges. You probably think colleges are all about handing out diplomas. You're not raising the level of education in this country by increasing the number of colleges and college graduates. It's not about opening up colleges like mushrooms or opening new departments for existing universities, it's about qualified education. Look, eight of the 18 million Dutch put together in the first 100. 13 universities are among the best 200 universities in the world. There is not a single university in Turkey in the first 200. Do you really think we can fix this painting by dividing universities? But that's not what we should be discussing here today. Nearly 70,000 college students are under arrest today. This is a big problem on its own. Finally, Mr. President had the students declared terrorists and had nine students arrested in action from a small discussion at Boğaziçi University. You black out people's lives, young people's futures. Congressmans, come, let's postpone the discussion of this bill. You've never done anything other than divide and divide; you've divided the judiciary, you've divided the artists, you've divided the stands, you've divided the emotions and beliefs, you've divided the unions, you've divided the media. It's finally time for colleges to divide and divide, but no matter how much you try to divide, we're going to build a new order as one voice, one heart, and we're not going to divide the universities and our emotions, and we're going to take our future back from you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0372par0385	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 13th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0373par0388	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0372par0389	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0373par0392	Mr. President, Mr. Ceyhun İrgil said the name at the main entrance of Ataturk University has been removed. Mr. Secretary, while you were still on the stand, I spoke to the chancellor, and there is no such thing. He informed the Parliament. Then Mr. Ceyhun sent the person who gave him the information, the photo. Our esteemed MP, Erzurum MP, Mr. İbrahim, first showed me that this could happen, but then he confirmed that something like this had happened to his friends. Mr. Secretary, I think you need to correct the information you just gave to the House and maybe make a commitment to tomorrow. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0374par0394	At least I was called a liar, so it would be nice if you could fix it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0375par0395	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0373par0396	Mr. Secretary would like to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0397	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0375par0398	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0400	Mr. President, we didn't call anyone a liar.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0377par0401	No, that's what they said.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0402	I mean, that's something else. Look, what did the Chancellor send me? His name is Ataturk University. Sir, we didn't remove the name of Ataturk. He said, "I explained it to the General Assembly."
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0378par0404	What have you learned now? Tell me the truth.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0405	Now what? That part of the stone on the door...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0379par0406	Yeah, that's what we said.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0407	...to be taken care of...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0380par0408	Six months of maintenance?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0409	He'll be put back in that place tomorrow, and his picture will look exactly like...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0381par0410	He got up four months ago.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0376par0411	Look, the word "lifting" implies a will, but to your knowledge, whether or not it will be repaired, whether it will be done or not it will be better...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0381par0412	Minister, they removed it four months ago, four months ago.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0382par0413	Do you also remove those things from Erdogan University when you're working on them?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0383par0414	Thank you. Mr. Aydemir, come in.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0384par0417	My dear President, as the Minister stated, I spoke to the Chancellor. My dear President, after meeting with Ceyhun Bey, we met with Mr. President, and I spoke to the friend who was involved there, and there were led lights, and several of them were malfunctioning. Mr. President, they'll be all set up tomorrow. I want to stress this in particular: Ataturk, we all have common value, and we must never, ever, ever do politics on the floor over it. I'm a graduate of Ataturk University. Erzurum is proud to have a high name like Ataturk University. So it's not right to use Ataturk University here like this, and I'm highlighting that. Our president is also a very sensitive name. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's a qualified, quality name that's been teaching that university for many years. If so, it was not right to create an image as if they were trying to destroy the name of Ataturk. Tomorrow, that name will appear in a much more glorious way.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0385par0421	Yeah, let's do it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0386par0422	Thank you. Mr. Irgil, this is understood.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0385par0424	I'm gonna take a minute. Everyone told me.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0386par0425	Okay, point taken.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0387par0426	No, of course not!
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0385par0427	Okay, maybe I'll say thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0386par0428	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0385par0430	Mr. President, thank you. Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for giving me the information. Thank you, Mr. Abraham, for his sensitivity. I'm sure of my interview there, your sincerity, your authenticity. He's fine. I'm just trying to say that you're so easily misled by your bureaucrats. That's what I'm trying to say. I'm not saying... how are you going to change your name? Can't you see we're calling college names by law here, but we can only lift them by law? I've never made a claim like that. However, I was cautious and asked, "Is such a claim true? You all jumped out of there together, and you said, "This is not going to happen. You're slandering, you're slandering. Didn't you say? There's the transcripts. I've only warned you, humanly and conscientiously, that's all. Your bureaucrats, your rectors, they always deceive you like that. I just told you to watch out for your presidents, they're putting you on the spot. As a matter of fact, this has just been proven. It's not about Ledle. I know it's the main gate. Besides, there's something else, things you don't know, things I know because I did. It's said, sir, that because this historic door is a status structure... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...because it damaged the historic door. They said. That's it. I'm waiting for an apology. I'm sorry. Ibrahim, thank you.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0388par0435	Thank you. There's a motion on Article 14 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change in Article 14 of Law Bill 556, which is being discussed in the following way. ADDDE 14-2/9/1983 and 78 higher education institutions have been added to the following provision for the Court of Law on the Attendings. EKK MADDE 25-Ekli (I) was incorporated into the boards of lecturers on the list of academics, including Gaziantep Science and Technology University, Sivas University of Science and Technology. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Didem Engin Ali Hero Ancient Don't Stop Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree with you. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0389par0453	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0388par0454	Muğla MP Nurettin Demir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0390par0457	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmans, we are now approaching the end of the law. Of course, there are a few items left. In particular, of course, this is a law that comes in on the university law, pre-election pre-op, pre-op, but has a lot of flaws, and often divides and divides. The AKP has actually brought power to this point in many areas of life, over and over. Divided, friends... especially cancer cells, you know, divide very quickly, and so it destroys that living structure, that structure, that country, and ultimately leads to death. So that's what's done here, unfortunately, that's how it came to be. Mr. Secretary, when you arrived, we had a bit of hope, that maybe bad education could improve a little bit, as an academic, but unfortunately, the point we came to is frustration. I'm not saying this as a congressman, I'm saying this as an academic. Indeed, today academics, university workers and students are crying blood. So that's what you're getting at. Hopefully, on June 25th, our country will get rid of your ministry, especially yours, and this country will be free of AKP power. I'm afraid what we've come up with in training is very sad. I'm not saying this as a congressman, I'm saying this as an academic. My wife is an academic. We're inside them, we see them day and night. Colleges are pathetic about the quality of the staff and the science. I went to a few colleges recently. Believe it or not, high-value lawmakers, the floor is falling out, the plaster is falling out, the universities are moaning in debt. We've been saying this for three years, for four years, the AKP's government, the Plan and Budget Commission, the General Assembly, how many times have we brought this, but unfortunately, let's divide it and destroy it. I think maybe we had something to do with this. Dear Minister, now, you are a father. Does the father call his own child a traitor? I mean, you'd be surprised to hear that a President says that a Bosporus student is a traitor. And whose president are you? If those kids made a mistake, you can either forgive him or you can either pull his ear out or you can point him in the right direction, but a president goes out and tells his own children, successful children, that he's a traitor to the values the country has raised. Is there any excitement left for those children to live in this country, to train in this country, to rule this country in the future? But there was no word, unfortunately, from the AKP MPs and their group, nothing came of it. Dear Minister, the rectors and deans you've really appointed recently make and direct much more political choices than the presidents of the AKP. That's not true; there's no science there, there's no success there, there's no education there. Mr. Secretary, check these out a little bit. We're sad, we're really sad about what country we live in. Therefore, consider the comments of our friends who actually spoke about this matter. You've changed the names of 50 or 60 stadiums; you've removed the Ataturk, you've removed the Mustafa Kemal, you've put in the arena, you've replaced them with, I don't know, fictitious names. Unfortunately, I've seen it myself.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0391par0465	Complete, please. Here you go, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0390par0467	Not just at the university in Erzurum, my friends; I went on a tourist trip, where they built a field of heroism, and on the forehead of a wall there were words about Ataturk, which had been spilled. I'm asking the members of the Erzurum to either remove it completely or correct it, friends.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0392par0468	When did you leave?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0390par0469	I left two months ago.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0392par0470	Now the next time you go, you'll see.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0390par0471	If you've fixed it in two months, thank you, but it's been said for at least three years.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0393par0472	You haven't made the elevator in six months, so we walked down the stairs. The elevator's been out of order for six months.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0390par0473	I mean, look, I'm just being friendly, man. It's not my view, it's the tourists from outside who blame him. I especially hope that the decay of this education will open the way for the country after June 25th, when our President of Education is president. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0394par0476	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Those who accept the 14th article... those who refuse to accept it... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on Article 15 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 15th amendment of Law Bill 556 be changed in the following manner. ADDE 15-13/12/1983 and the following clause has been added to the Constitutional Court of General Staff No. 190. "EK MADDE 24-Ekli (II) has been added to the frameworks of the Court of Law; Gaziantep University of Science and Technology, Sivas University of Science and Technology. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Ali Hero Didem Engin Utku Cakırözer Does the commission agree with the motion? MUSTAFA - We don't agree. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0395par0491	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0394par0492	Our Eskişehir MP Utku Çakrözer will speak on the motion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0396par0495	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to begin by respectfully greeting our Istanbul MP Enis Berberoglu and other arrested MPs, who have been held hostage in Maltepe Prison for three hundred and thirty days today for just one report. My dear friends, we all know that Turkey's most important problem is not education and improving. In first and middle schools, the average OECD is very, very low in science, mathematics and reading, and it's the same in universities. In a study conducted by the NGO itself, only 10 universities were able to enter the world's top 1,000 good universities, not to mention that we have major universities today that we are trying to divide between these ten. The more critical aspect of the study is that only 47 percent of our 186 universities have been evaluated, and 139 of them have not been considered worthy or deserved to be evaluated. I'm telling you this from the RDS's research. Our universities, such as ODTÜ, Boğaziçi, İstanbul University, Gazi University, which the AKP government does not like, are also the faceless universities of our country. My dear friends, this bill is designed to divide and multiply our universities. For example, we have needed third university in Eskişehir for many years. So far, at least in the three years I've served in Parliament, dozens of new universities have been established, but this opportunity has never been granted to Eskişehir. Now, how do you intend to meet this third college request? Sixty years of long-standing science nest, dividing our state-of-the-art University of Anatolia with an unplanned, unscheduled, arbitrary decision. So, what do the professors and students at the University of Anatolia say about this? No one's asking. What was supposed to happen? What do we say? Of course, the third university should be opened to Eskişehir, but it shouldn't be divided into our Anatolian University, splitting its publishing numbers in half, dividing its prestige, dividing its world ranking in two. Our Anadolu University is an elite university that started our country's open education and remote education programmes and played an important role in implementing many projects with the value it produces. The University of Anatolia, with its savings, with its experience, should be able to contribute to a new university, but this should be a new university. If you don't, you're actually punishing our University of Anatolia for its achievements. The number of students studying knitting at the University of Anatolia today is 24,000. So there's never a size that requires division. Let me give you a few examples of how unplanned this division is: our Anatolian University has two campuses, Yunus Emre and September 2nd settlements. Now, Eskişehir Technical University is being established on September 2nd. In its case, it says: "The dwellings of the existing units will be taken into account. " The University of Technology is on the 2nd September campus, and the science faculty that connects to it is right in the middle of the settlement with its labs and Jonah Emre campus, which is the University of Anatolia. The science faculty building is a private building, very private labs, clean rooms that are unique. Now, these labs will be rebuilt because they can't be moved. There's talk of a budget that exceeds $20 million, and it's probably going to require a higher budget to build a new science faculty. Also, the science faculty is the head of the most broadcast units at the University of Anatolia. Another example of how much joy has been done: the University of Anatolia's Institute for Transport and Transport is being taken into the Eskişehir Technical University, while the Faculty of Transport is staying at the Anadolu University. In the same way, the National Research and Test Centre for Ray Systems (URAYSIM), an extremely important project in the transport area, will remain within the scope of the University of Anatolia. In that case, instead of leaving the units related to transport, all of them should actually remain at the University of Anatolia. My dear friends, the teachers and students of our University of Anatolia, are here tonight, waiting for us to turn this wrong. The law must be withdrawn and given a detailed planning to our Eskişehir (Eskişehir) a new third university. The collection and experience of the staff of the University of Anatolia and our Ottomangazi University may, of course, contribute to our new university, but the solution must never and never be divided. My dear friends, universities should be the center of free thinking, producing science. Unfortunately, that's not the case in our universities where you're increasing their numbers. Free thinking is banned in universities; students, teachers are wanted to be bullied, silenced. At the time of the State of Emergency, academics were not only expelled from the academy for their thoughts, but were also tried and arrested. Here is Onur Hamzaoglu, one of Turkey's respected public health scientists, who has been under arrest for three months, not even an indictment. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0397par0504	Finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0396par0506	Thank you. Under the State of Emergency, not only teachers, but hundreds, thousands of college students are still under arrest or investigation for their thoughts, statements. Last time, the children of Boğaziçi University were arrested. They are deprived of both their freedoms and their rights to education, they are not allowed to enter their visas, they are limited to their textbooks, their grades. These students belong not in prisons, but in universities; these teachers belong not in prison wards, but in university amps. In Turkey, universities can only become the centers that actually produce science with free thought. With these thoughts, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0398par0510	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 15th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 16 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand the change in Article 16 of the main Law Bill (1/943) in the following way. MADDE 16 - This Law is enforced on 1/1/2020. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Ali Yiğit Abid Özdemir Didem Engin Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree with you. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0399par0524	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0398par0525	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0400par0528	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've also taken a pledge on the 16th article concerning the High School Legislature. I salute your high council. The 16th article is the application clause. There's been a lot of talks. I know you've lost your patience, but it's the final draft of the National Board of Education we're going to discuss this semester. Yes, the field of education is one of our main problems. Unfortunately, this bill has laid the groundwork for an ideological and political debate, and we are against it. We think that all legislation on education should be judged by intelligence and science, not by an ideological and political perspective. I feel the need to emphasize this fundamental principle once again as an academic because universities and academics don't like decision-making, and they object to all these decisions. We believe that universities have institutions to govern themselves according to the measure of democratic, free, modern, scientific and financial autonomy. We've been having an unnecessary discussion of universities for nearly two weeks because of the arrangements made with unpredictable, unplanned, short-term and purely ideological concerns. In my speech last week, I shared with you the science academy's very important findings on this bill, and many of the talks have been on those findings. That's what the colleges are against today. I did it. He has an understanding. Unfortunately, and the basic opposition of universities is on that understanding because they were not consulted, their views were not taken; it is evident that scientific autonomy was also violated as to the way the bill was built. If this were left to the universities and they were trusted to solve their own problems, believe me, there wouldn't be so much public debate, nor would we be spending so much time. We believe that the universities themselves will be the best solution to their structural problems. So when we look at the way this bill was made, unfortunately, it's not a good management process, it's not the way all shareholders' opinions and concerns are being heard. Among the universities you've divided, the oldest of our country's centuries-old University of Istanbul has a root, a tradition, and a culture. The authors of the bill have sadly ignored this centuries-old tradition. The university administrations, academics, students who want to take over their tradition, their roots, their culture, their institution, are keeping watch day and night for the withdrawal of the bill, and displaying their opposition with peaceful and democratic actions. These actions are supported by many patients who have been treated -- especially when we look at medical schools -- both the environmental community and Turkey -- all over the country. Dear lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party described itself as a conservative political party. However, when we look at it, it's really impossible to describe the Justice and Development Party as a conservative party, because even though it presents itself as a conservative party, it's obvious that this bill, which divides the universities, divides the country's oldest educational institution by one, destroys its traditions and severs its roots. At the same time, when we look at the policies of the Justice and Development Party, we see that, as it destroyed their historical identity, their heritage, especially many of our cities, such as Istanbul, Bursa, today, the universities have destroyed these radical traditions. Here we are faced with this bill as a result of the desire to bring down integrity in the state administration, to have personal, political interests and negotiations behind closed doors rather than transparency, to have independent, autonomous institutions controlled by one hand. Here we see the most important opportunity in the recent history of coming out of this crisis under the government as June 24th. Students, academics, citizens, here's the best response to this authoritarianity by going to the polls on June 24th, and in the end, young people, academics and all of our people, especially students, will say, "We're done with this mentality that destroys institutions, destroys the nation." And with that view and emotion, I salute the grand jury again, and thank you for your patience.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0401par0541	Okay, okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0402par0542	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Those who accept the 16th article... those who refuse to accept it... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on Article 17 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that the 17th amendment of Law Bill 556, which is currently in session, be changed in the following way. MADDE 17 - The Minister of National Education conducts these laws. Kazim Arslan Mahmut Tanal Ali Candy Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree with you. Government?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0403par0555	We can't agree, Reverend President.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0402par0556	İzmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay will speak on the motion. I believe the bill and the last speech of the day. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0404par0560	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I believe this is the last law of this year in the field of national education, and for the last time, we are in this environment together. We sincerely wish to be with Mr. Secretary again in the coming period, but to see the Minister in the ranks of the opposition.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0402par0561	If he comes here, he won't be the only minister.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0404par0562	In May 2016, you were prepared to go to the Efes exercise as Minister of National Defence, and you became Minister of National Education. I really wouldn't wish to be in your shoes. You're dealing with a painting that you've worked so hard to make sense of every step that I think is not true on your conscience, that we've seen on the commissions. Members of parliament, 6 National Education Ministers have changed during the AKP ruling period. The fact that four ministers, other than Nabi Avcı, were not even in the Justice and Development Party ranks today is a sign of the state of education. None of them are on your side right now.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0405par0565	Nabi Hunter...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0404par0566	Except for the Nabi Hunter. I said. At the moment, Minister, I have listed the changes the AKP's government has made since 2013 in order for your memory to go like this. This one is fucked on the road, not on the road. This one is broken at the head of the road. No change remained for more than three years. Look, when you arrived in 2003, you increased the difference in college coefficients. You changed the curriculum the following year. The next year, you moved high school from three to four years. The following year, you replaced the access system to these high schools with the OKS. The following year, in 2007 -- OKS stayed a year, one year -- you said: "Let it be SBS, let it be three exams." Two years left in 2009, you said: "YGS and LYS." In 2009, you removed the coefficient from the university. In 2010, you moved to a single stage instead of a three-stage test in high school, three years away. And the caravan went not forth yet, and the caravan came at the head of the road, and another caravan came. In 2012, you switched to the 4+4+4 system. The same year, this time, this wasn't the only system, let's go back to the multi-test system. You said that same year. You moved the classrooms in 2013. So what? This time, you've made the schools a classroom. Many schools today are in our school, where the Dershane teachers advertise themselves. So you actually took out the schools when you took out the classrooms. In 2014, TEOG is gone, TEOG is here... coming, going, of course getting mixed up. TEOG came in 2014, TEOG went in 2017. So, members of lawmakers, this is the summary of the painting. For God's sake, I mean, all these changes, it's a change in the moment, the next year, the next two years before you know how long a system is going to sit... it's called not being able to manage it. It's called OK. It means OK.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0406par0569	How many ministers have changed, how many ministers?
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0407par0570	Okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0408par0571	It's okay. It's okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0409par0572	Six ministers have changed.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0410par0573	Exactly.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0409par0574	Each minister served two and a half years on average, and every time the minister arrived, he broke down what the previous minister had done. And right now, lawmakers, students who are going to take the university exams are still asking if there will be any change as the exams approach. For God's sake, is national education so full of holes? And now you're making colleges full of holes. Utku Cakirözer just described it beautifully. Gaye Beslier, our friend -- Nabi Hodja, of course, he carved it himself, but he put it very well, we want the third university, but we want the current university intact. You split the body in half... and your mother split the child in half and you had two children. But Mr. Gaye told me that very well. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, last time...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0411par0578	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0412par0580	We're finishing it, Mayor, we're finishing it.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0413par0581	Congressmans, I'm completing my vows.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0411par0582	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0413par0583	Okay, well, the president and I finished it together.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0414par0584	Ahmet Aydın said it's okay. He said it's okay.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0413par0585	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, to the last, all of you... a Japanese diplomat said that they had a lot of dialogue with the Turks with companies who had jobs in Turkey... and he said: "Our delegation meets five people. One of us listens to what the other says, and one of us listens to what we say, and one of us looks at the next step. That's how we do the task department. He said. I asked him, "What do Turks do? " He said, "They all talk together, they all shut up together." I said, "Well, what do they do next?" At the next meeting, the chairman of the delegation has changed. He cancels the previous ones and says, "We've made a new reform." That's the Japanese observation. I'm actually calling this going on June 24th okay. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0415par0589	All right, Mr. Mustafa, all right.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0416par0590	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. Now, before all of them vote, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Here you go. Mr. President, on the list of the 556 rankings listed on Article 7 and Ekli (II) under which the amendment to the General Assembly's proposal is adopted in 182; on the other articles of the draft, 8th, 10th, 14th, 14th and 15th, and Ekli (I). On the additive (II) list, we propose that the central staff table at Kütahya Health Sciences University shall be corrected in the direction of the ibare written in the column of the chief staff, which is a total of 4 in the 19th line, in the form of the ibare written "Sehven ί7"; Sivas University of Science and Technology and the central staff bodies of the University of Tartarus combined. Thank you. We'll vote on the entire bill, along with the commission's request for a reduction.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0417par0600	First, vote for the redaction so they can authorize it, and then the whole bill...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0416par0601	The entire bill is subject to an open vote.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0417par0602	Mr. President, as soon as he's asked for a rewrite, vote him in, let them get a copy.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0416par0603	So we'll vote all of it anyway, along with the request for a reduction, so that's how we'll vote.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0417par0604	Mr. President, the power of editing...
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0416par0605	Okay, let's vote separately. All those in favor of the commission's request for this reduction... Those who don't agree... Sustained. But it's not a separate clause.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0418par0608	That's it, that's it. Otherwise, maybe I'll say yes to the editing, say no to the bill.
tbmm-2018-05-08sit09spe0416par0609	No, no, no. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. With the commission's request for this reduction, I'll seek the decision of the General Assembly for the form of an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you five minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] A clear vote on the Law on Higher Education and the Amendment to Some Laws and Laws: ▪ Number of votes used: 202 [[x]] So the bill is accepted and legalized. Since the issues on our agenda have been completed, it is Wednesday (May 9th 2018) that we discuss the draft and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, according to the decision made, at 14 p.m. on Wednesday (May 2018). I wish you good night, closing the assembly at 00.
