tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 89th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'll give a minute to 15 MPs under the 60th Amendment. The members of the group will still be promised their position for two minutes. The first word is Republican People's Party İstanbul MP, Mr. Gibraltar Özdemir. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0002par0008	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, one of the senior lawmakers, a partner of the alliance, has expressed that the ruling political party and its leader have failed to manage the country well, that the early election is a national imperative, that the country is driven into an uncertain environment, and that its understanding of governance must be changed by early elections, predicting that the bill of this administration crisis will be too severe for our country soon. Now, just as we say, it has confirmed that the only person responsible for us being dragged into an environment of instability, uncertainty, economic straits and regional insecurity is this government and its leader. And today, we're going to vote in the General Assembly to create an opportunity for 81 million people, for the peace and well-being of all of us, and on June 24th, we're going to meet with all those who favor democracy and stability in this alliance of panic and fear...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0001par0011	Thank you, sir. The second say is Republican People's Party Niğde MP Omar Fethi Gürer.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0003par0014	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a lot of promise to health workers in AKP governments, but no action. Justice and Development Party (AKP) President Erdogan has vowed to wear out five years and one year at every Day of Medicine since 2014, but it has not happened. They'll repeat those words before the election. Paramedics, EMTs and technicians, pre-med paramedics, work in the Ministry of Health. Emergency medical technicians graduate from four years of vocational and technical secondary schools of the Ministry of National Education. Ambulance and emergency care technicians are the university's two-year first and pre-med graduates. These people, whose positions are pre-med emergency care, are not part of the Ministry of Health's appointment staff. He says at least 4,000 people are waiting for the appointment, and I would like to ask the Health Minister to assist in the recruitment for them. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0004par0018	Thank you, sir. Peoples' Democratic Party Adıyaman MP Behcet Yıldırım... Here you are, Mr. Behcet.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0005par0022	Thank you, Mr. President. In April, the electoral congressional process of the Turkish Medical Association began. In the elections held last week and this weekend, the pro-peace and freedom physicians have achieved great success. This is where I congratulate the Active Democratic TTB Group, which won the room elections for major cities, particularly Ankara and Istanbul. The lists supported by power and the palace have been officially frustrated. Despite all the pressures and promises of power, physicians have achieved peace and freedom. Attention to the court, who is interested in polls. Long live the brotherhood of the people.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0006par0025	Thank you, sir. Republican People's Party Ankara MP Nihat Yeşil... Mr. Imran Kılıç...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0007par0029	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, good luck with the general election decision. Domination belongs to the nation unconditionally. No one, no institution, can see itself above the nation, the nation's Assembly, especially the political institution. The law is above all else. Both representatives of the nation and the nation themselves have to abide by universal law. For example, U.S. citizens can't restore slavery even if they want to, nor can they rule out the 1863 law that ended slavery. In any country, it is not possible to justify theft, corruption, dishonestness by making a law. The inclination of willful mind, heart and conscience means desire. A society of people has a will, just as a person has a will. That's national will. The national will is a combination of the desires and ambitions of all nations. People are capable of doing whatever they want. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] There is no force that can prevent initiatives, and if it is prevented by force, it will not be permanent, and sooner or later the national will prevails, and the national will comes out of the chest. In this sense, the national will, represented by both power and opposition, is a legitimate will, and is in the name of the nation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0008par0033	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Giresun MP, Mr. Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu, is in charge.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0009par0036	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleges are not just academic and administrative structures. It is time, even, to put students of those universities on the main axis of education, to think about them, to make arrangements for them. First of all, the students expect forgiveness. Mr. President, when these expectations are expressed, we never think, never think. But the insistence must be given up only for economic or special reasons for students whose education is incomplete and who have to drop out of college. In order to eliminate the victim, we expect a study to grant a narrowed-down, borderline pardon or test rights. Please give this good news to the students and their families today when the decision has been made. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0010par0039	Thank you, sir. Mustafa Ali Balbay, İzmir, CHP... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0011par0043	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we wish the 24th of June elections to the best of our country. In the early days when the AKP came to power, Turkey was going to bring it into the EU, bringing it together. In the early days, the EU said that Turkey is constantly approaching the EU. The latest report today says that Turkey is constantly moving away. We moved away from the West. When the AKP arrived, Syria and I were close enough to hold a joint press conference, and now Miraç Night is far enough away from Syria to be shot. And right now, power seems to have moved away from youth. On June 25th, he tampered with the fate of 2.5 million students and changed their test date. The boys were going to take the exam on June 24th, and now they're going to enter the voting booth. I call on you to teach this power and to prefer the future of your children in the dilemma of Recep Tayyip Erdogan or our children.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0012par0047	Thank you, sir. In order to speak, Mr. Senal Sarıhan, Ankara, Republican People's Party... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0013par0051	Mr. President, thank you. I'd like to point out that even though Yenikapi refers to his spirit, this request for early elections, given by the motion of the two parties without compromise with the other parties, is essentially what our people want. Because the people no longer expect any benefit from this government, any benefit from it. However, I believe that we should all be on the same page as all of us about how the choices created under the State of Emergency would be a problem, and that we should all strive for a legitimate, democratic election. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0014par0054	Thank you, sir. Mr. Mahmut Tanal, İstanbul, Republican People's Party... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0015par0058	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, dear ministers, I salute you. The 24th, 25th and 26th term, I've been a member of parliament for three periods. I've always told the ministers who are currently in the ministry in my three-term parliamentary position that our province of Istanbul is not an expert doctor at Chile State Hospital. It will be completed, it will be completed. You said, it has not been completed. In the same way, I've always told you the zoning of Kirazlıtepe, the zoning of Kirazlıtepe, the property problem in our Üsküdar district, you haven't solved it. In the same way, I've been a congressman for three semesters, eight years, with the parking problem of Şanliurfa, the school problem, the hospital problem, the teacher problem, the road problem, the water problem, the electricity problem. We'll do it today, we'll do it today... It's been eight years, you haven't done it. How many more years do you need, and you didn't do it? And here we are, an early election decision has been made. Here, I ask that the Şanliurfas, the Skopjes, the Beykozians, the Chileans give this AKP power a weak report card. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0016par0062	Thank you. Mr. Sibel Yiğitalp, Diyarbakır, Peoples' Democratic Party...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0017par0065	Now, yesterday, on June 24, 2018, a decision was made, and the decision was made. We were elected on November 1st under the most inequal conditions, yet we came to Parliament today with the will of the people, and we did not give up on democratic politics, even though we were subject to every kind of pressure every day and every day in this House. Now, I would like to ask you: what choice do you plan to make in a political election conjunctive in which no media vehicle has opened to us, where we have nowhere to express ourselves, and which is all about you as a whole? So that if there are 100 channels, there must be 85 of you; there is one of you; there is the minister, there is the Prime Minister, or there is the President. If you're not there, you're on the show. What choice do you intend to make under such asymmetric conditions, and how do you justify this choice? Do you really consider that your conscience and your sense of justice? I'll ask him first. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And I'd like to close by asking: our friends are in prison, replacing our appointed mayors. On what legitimate basis do you intend to describe such asymmetric conditions?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0018par0069	Thank you, sir. In line with Kerem Ali Continuum, Izmir, Justice and Development Party... Sir... there is no Mr. Kerem Ali. Mr. Musa Pine, İzmir, CHP...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0019par0074	Thank you. We were all unanimously elected early by political parties -- including the People's Party of the Republic -- who proposed early parliamentary elections in the Constitutional Commission last night (June 24th). First of all, we hope that this election will bring success and good fortune to our country. Before this election decision, especially the Political Party Law, the Election Law, the Law, the Law on 10 per cent dams, had to be brought in and discussed in parliament, and the basis for a democratic election was set, but this was not done, we face an election, as if it were smuggling from fire. We believe that on June 24th, roses will be opened in the chest and 16 years of power will end, and we offer our people once again love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0020par0077	Thank you. Mr. Ali Candy, İstanbul, CHP...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0021par0080	You said reelection, and now you're going to a panic election. The country will pay $235 billion in debt over the next year. The economy of the country that you brought in has become unable to pay these debts, and you're trying to move forward with this crisis so that you can move forward when the end of the crisis appears, but today everyone is having this crisis in the field. You can't go to elections without the State of Emergency, and you keep promising the State of Emergency. We'll see if people are going to vote for the State of Emergency, for democracy, for freedom and democracy. Earlier, you said that choice was treason. Are you betraying it as you are now? You didn't just import hay in the AKP's government, you imported measles, you imported polio, and Turkey is suffering from epidemics. The vaccine is life-threatening, and I'd like to invite the Ministry of Health on duty to increase the inoculation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0020par0082	Thank you, sir. Mr. Sami Dedeoğlu, Kayseri, AK PARTY...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0022par0085	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, we've had a lot of elections throughout the history of the Republic, but sometimes elections are really important. I especially wish that the early general election on June 24th would be good for our country, our President and our MPs. We're going through a historic period, and we're going back to our nation these days, and we believe that our nation will make the right decision. The idea of the AK PARTY is to trust people, to walk with people, to exist for people. The nation will own the state, the government will act, the Parliament will rule, the nation will supervise. With the developing culture of reconciliation, the government will be fine. While our nation lives in peace and security, our fight against terrorism will be even more effective. I wish this election would bring blessings to all Turkey, and I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0023par0088	Thank you, sir. Mr. Nihat Green, please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0024par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. We are ready as Republican People's Party for the June 24th election. We see that the laborer, the farmer, the tradesman, the pensioner, the teenager, and the unemployed are determined to send the AK PARTY with their votes. Is your decision to go to the election during the extraordinary process due to a common lack of self-esteem? If you say we caught CHP off guard by running a raid, we're ready, go ahead. The road to early elections is paved with stones of your early fall. Does the repeated extension of the State of Emergency not mean the failure of the fight? While we still have so many unemployed, hungry, miserable, miserable people, you've made this decision when you need to address the problems of the people. I hope it will be good for our country, for our nation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0025par0096	Thank you, sir. Is there a Mr. Kerem Ali? Mr. Reşat Petek, AK PARTY, Burdur... Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0026par0101	Thank you, Mr. President. Sovereignty belongs to the nation unconditionally, and the nation determines its sovereignty through elections. For the first time in the June 24th elections, the presidential government system will come to life, and our people will directly determine the president's leadership. In this respect, the June 24th elections are extremely important. I pray to God that these elections are good for our nation, for our people, for our country, and I salute the Veterans.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0025par0103	Thank you. Sir, the group vice presidents are in position. Mr. Erhan, Deputy Director of the National Movement Party. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0027par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to say that I condemn the sports terror of the Fenerbahçe-Basiktaş Derby last night. The responsible must be found immediately and given the necessary punishments, and we also wish that similar incidents would never happen again. I would like to take this opportunity to say good-bye to Mr. Sun. Mr. President, Greece, you know, our neighbor and ally. In Greece, one of the eight coupkers who fled Turkey yesterday was released on the condition of judicial control. It's a sad attitude, and I consider it a political decision. Therefore, our neighbor has to stop caring for these people. On the other hand, the Austrian Prime Minister's statements against Turkey -- which had been a problem last year -- are extremely hostile. They said they would not allow Turkish political parties to campaign for elections. And we'd like to say that we found that wrong. Mr. President, we'll discuss the decision to hold an early election on June 24th at the General Assembly and the decision will be voted. We think the early election will pave the way for Turkey, Turkey, which is surrounded from all sides, will pave the way for Turkey, which is to be drowned. Hopefully, Turkey will continue with the new system in a strong way. I hope that our negotiations and decisions here will be good now, good for our country, good for our nation. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0028par0115	Thank you. Sir, it's time for the Deputy President of the People's Democratic Party, Mr. Flitz Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0029par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. As soon as the election was decided, the MPs of Osman Baydemir and Selma River were reduced, and only yesterday they were here. On the same day, our Mardin MP Gülser Yıldırım was sentenced to seven years and six months in prison. Today, the press quoted Erdoğan as saying that he started the first message he sent to his own organisations regarding the election by targeting HDP (HDP); he called a meeting of the mayors and deputies, and then you will bury him in the chest. Why? Because he is afraid of the voice of HDP (HDP) and of his word. HDP fears the demands of new life, peace, freedom and democracy. Since 2015, the President has been talking about burying death in every speech. He tried to destroy local democracy with trustees, democratic politics with arrests and punishments, but failed. When HDP MPs Demirtaş, Yüksekdağ, Baluken and thousands of elected hostages are in fact a moral corruption, a sign of fear, an expression of fear of going to an equal, fair election. The early election is actually a scheme. Erdoğan and AKP officials have said that there is no early elections to look the public in the eye. On the other hand, we learn from the press today that the preparations are complete; the AKP's election programme, music, declaration, everything is ready. He was prepared to vote by lying to the public. Dear friends, yesterday in Pamukkale district of Denizli, another citizen committed suicide and the 43-year-old citizen who was found hanging from an iron tree...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0030par0125	I'll add one minute, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0029par0126	...Süleyman K.'s pocket was issued a loan notice. Here, the country's dominant elections were imposed on citizens while fighting poverty. The choice is a true, fair choice for all of us, it's acceptable to all of us, but it's illegal to impose. I mean, we clearly don't say no to the election, but we say no to the imposition. Likewise yesterday, events occurred in the Beşiktas-Fenerbahçe derby, affected by the country's violent spiral. We say, "Sunol, get well soon," and we think that on June 24th, the country will come out of this violent spiral in all areas. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0031par0130	Thank you. Mr. Engin Altay, Vice President of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0032par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. The events of yesterday's Fenerbahçe-Başiktaş match have upset our entire nation, especially in sports activities, which should never have happened. However, the frequentness of such events can also be viewed as an expression of economic problems as a result of tension in society, polarization, transparency. We see with regret that people are going mad. I'd like to point out the importance of all fans, fans, in more common sense, more tolerantly, more empathically, to conduct and monitor sports activities in these areas when sports is considered to be an event that needs to be done and followed in a gentleman's logic above all. There may be fights everywhere, but there's no fighting in sports, there's no violence. Sports are a fundamental element of gentlemanliness and tolerance. On this occasion, we welcome Mr. Senol Sun. In order for such events not to take place in the country anymore, we also reveal our intentions and our will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, whether the government needs to take measures or not, we demand that this be investigated. I salute the General Assembly and your presidency with my complete faith that the tension of the nation will end on June 24th with a decision we hope to make today.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0033par0139	Thank you. Mr Mehmet Mush, Deputy Speaker of the AK PARTY Assembly Group, İstanbul MP. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0034par0143	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. We don't approve of the events in yesterday's competition, and there we send our best wishes as the AK PARTY Group to the Senol Sun, where he was injured in the head. These events that a few people have uncovered there can't cost the entire company of Beşiktaş or Fenerbahçe. So I'm sure there will be the necessary investigations, investigations, and those who are trying to bring these events out will be identified by the relevant units. In the meantime, I find it useful to say that our president and president have never been afraid of an institutional structure, nor of an organization, nor of any other maharajah; so far he has defended his country's interests with his life and will continue to defend the future of Turkey. There's talk of burying. That's right, we're not going to welcome terrorists who are trying to protect the lives of 81 million citizens, who are trying to protect our country's undistributable integrity, by giving them flowers, but by burying them in the pits they deserve. Therefore, you need to know in what context the expression is used. Sir, they're afraid of us, they're afraid of our voice. We're not afraid of anyone. The AK PARTY is Turkey's largest political party to run the country for sixteen years, and hopefully a party to face on June 24th. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Therefore, let each one make his own evaluations for himself, and let no one make an assessment for us. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0035par0151	Thank you, sir. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go, sir. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Friday/4/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK Party Group Deputy Chairman Minister of Justice and Development Party Group 552, President of İzmir Yıldırım and Milliye Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP State Bahlı and 7 MPs' General Election Renewal and The Constitutional Commission Report on the draft of the Election on June 24, 2018, and other jobs from the Commission and Proposals should be taken into the section of the agenda in less than 48 hours; The Constitutional Commission Report 552 on Friday (April 2018) will continue to work until the meeting of the Constitutional Commission Report No. 552 (now) in the merger of Friday (April 20, 2018), and the completion of the work of other tasks in the Commission's part of the Constitutional Commission Report No. 552 (now) meeting on Friday 20 April 2018; and the completion of the General Assembly's private talks on Monday (April 23, 2018) after the meeting of the Commission's Special Computation on Monday (April 23, 2018). It's recommended. There's no request to discuss the proposal. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the section of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. Under Article 95 of the Civil Code, the Constitutional Commission report on revampment of elections will be discussed before all issues on the agenda. Due to this verdict, we will begin talks with İzmir MP Bazil Yıldırım, the head of the Justice and Development Party Group, Osmaniye MP State Bahçeli and the Minister of the National Movement Party, on the renewing of the General Election of the 7 MPs and on the draft of the election on June 24, 2018, and on the Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of 552 rows. I will open a meeting on the commission report under Article 72 of the Civil Code. On behalf of the groups, the first speaker is Deputy Director of the Group, Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0036par0184	Mr. President, I have been promised on behalf of the National Movement Party Group that the 27th term general elections should be held on Sunday (June 24th 2018). I salute your honorable committee. As it is known, Mr. President made an offer on Tuesday (April 17th) to make an early election for our country, stating that it would be better for our country to act quickly with all the elements of the presidential government system without waiting for Turkey's 3 November 2019. Following the talks of the two-member leaders, Mr. Erdogan announced on Wednesday (April 18th) that they had assessed the early election requirement in light of the developments, announcing that on 24 June 2018, the President and MP elections had been held. So, why was the early election decided? Dear lawmakers, politics is, in a sense, seeing the facts, predicting the future, and taking a position. First, we stress over and over again that we're acting as my people and my country. Today, we believe that the same principles will pave the way for Turkey, which you think will be held in the June 24th elections. The focus of the early election decision is to implement the presidential government system as soon as possible. Turkey is the target, domestic and external security issues are becoming complicated, and the circle of hostility within our country is shrinking. We have to respond to those who seek peace and security of our country, plan for the future of our country, we have to walk in stronger steps to the future. We can't keep the agenda busy with ongoing election debates during this period when Turkey's stay is being shaken. This election is the effort to solve the fundamental issues of our country in democracy. We're at an important time in the fight against terrorism in the country and abroad. Anti-terrorism is a national issue. When national matters are discussed, other matters remain subjective. That is why we do not have five hundred and sixty-two days to spend in election debates. The presidential government system, adopted by the Constitutional referendum on April 16th, must be passed without any concessions or delays. That is what our nation's demand and expectation is. The presidential government system is a natural consequence of Turkey's progress towards democracy. In accordance with democracy, each political party must respect the Constitutional referendum on April 16th. The main backbone of the system is strong state, strong governance and democratic stability. In the face of this fact, the crisis and chaos lobby is active over the presidential government system, which must be acted against the fitness centers. Dear lawmakers, Turkish politics is the history of sharp struggles. As the National Movement Party, we always acted first with the motto of my country and nation. The aim of our politics is to protect and defend the nation, the unity of the state, the integrity of the country, the rise of the Republic of Turkey forever. To refresh our memory, we haven't forgotten the attempted traitorous coup attempt on July 15th. Prior to that, we faced constitutional problems in the administration system, which have emerged since 2007, when the election for the presidency of 2014 came to light. It's not about people. In 2007, after the decision to elect the President by the public, we predicted and warned that a picture would arise that would lead to bilateral and management problems. It happened in 2014, and we were right. After the July 15 coup attempt, we end the problems of governance with the presidential government system in our country, which is sought to be locked up politically and driven into crisis. After that, the main thing is to get Turkish politics to move forward in this area. We haven't started early elections debates that have been going on for about a year and have been concentrated for the past two months, and neither the National Movement Party nor the Justice and Development Party have been having these discussions. Some circles have been on the agenda of a continuous early election since the April 16th constitutional referendum. At every opportunity, the call for early elections was referred to as "hodri square. " Despite all these environments and their efforts to cause chaos, the Cumhur Alliance has expressed its opinion that the elections must be held on time. Although Mr. President and Mr. President repeatedly pointed out November 3, 2019, certain circles continued to occupy public opinion with election debates. As of today, there is a long period of time as of November 3, 2019, 563 days. While the fitne, gossip and crisis mechanism was speeding up its activities to open the door to chaos, the regional risk and danger had to be taken into place on time, while the imperialists were planning to invade and war just beyond our borders, while political and economic operations against our country deepened, we could not stand by and watch while Turkey wanted to be put into an economic embargo in the foreign currency -- interest -- while the presidency government system was trying to decompose itself before it could actually take place. We have to make a move to fight terrorism, economic resilience, social peace and total development. At a time when domestic and external threats are concentrated, the transition to the presidential government system must be completed and put into place. As representatives of responsible politics, we have expressed our opinion that this should not be extended any longer. Whether there was a choice, whether it was early or on time, such discussions, such as polemics, had to be ended. Some of the zevat aren't happy again. Again, they criticize this decision in a number of statements, such as choice in print, choice in haste, smuggling goods from the Yang. Speculations that would be unthinkable about the early election decision to impose their own delusions on the nation are still very good at creating conspiracy theories. ▪ It is called the choice of print. For God's sake, who's the dominant choice? All the parties say we're ready. In fact, I'd like to remind you again that they've started the early election call for almost a year. Those who often call for early elections, if so, the box is called. On the other hand, the Supreme Election Board says we are ready. The Cumhur Alliance is ready. Then who's the dominant choice? Let's say that this election could be the dominant choice for those who want to operate on Turkey, who are targeting the Republic of Turkey as a united front with the project organisations. This decision dominates those who are disturbed by Turkey's Olive Land, Operation Firat Shield and Operation El Bab. This decision dominates those who are uncomfortable with the fight against the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). This decision dominates orange revolutionaries, ethnic separatists, July 15th, PKK leaders, Sevr lovers, street lovers. This decision dominates the speakers of global imperialism. Just yesterday, U.S. spokesman says we have concerns. The British newspapers reflect their indigestion. In the end, Turkey's enemies were caught unprepared, and all their intervention scenarios set for 2019 were left in their hands. Dear lawmakers are a step towards resolving political, social, economic and foreign policy issues, either blocked or threatened by elections, a breath. If you are committed to democracy, there should be no harm in going to people. The call for early elections is to appeal to the nation's arbitration by transitioning to the presidential government system against the circumstances we face. We are loyal to the national will. We don't mind hearing our nation's decision. On April 16th, our nation drew the legal framework, and on June 24th, it will determine the direction of the national state-powered government and the law. Dear lawmakers, the early election decision has been the correct and mandatory decision. There are those who seek refuge in an excuse in the State of Emergency. It's not an excuse, it's an excuse. In certain parts of Turkey, there have been many elections with the State of Emergency, even under martial law. As a result, good lawmakers, Turkey belongs to all of us, our homeland. We need to focus on the fundamental issues of our country, our direction, our direction, and keep our country out of any danger or crisis as soon as possible. It is time to give the word and will to the people who are truly in power. The future and the future belong to the Turkish nation. National government, our destination for power is the national will. Our nation will carry out this election in democratic maturity, turn it into a feast of democracy; our nation will not tolerate betrayal, but will demonstrate its will in the direction of the rise of the crowd. On Sunday (June 24, 2018), the resurrection of the Republic of Turkey will be a stage for the rise of the Republic of Turkey. The nation will have its will on June 24th, and the non-national politicians will take the necessary lesson. As I end my speech, I wish the 24th of June elections to be good luck and good luck to our country and our nation, and salute your honored delegation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0037par0197	Thank you, Mr. Akchay. On behalf of the groups, the second speaker is İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu, deputy leader of the Group on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0038par0202	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, dear people, since you've been asked to erase your memory for almost a long time from sensory operations and false bombings, I say, let's take a trip back to the past, how have we come to this day? How is it that in this country everyone finally embraces, peace comes, and even the name of peace is forbidden? How could the children not die? The teacher Ayşe faced her six-month-old child in prison today? How come only those who talk about war on TV talk about war? How did Turkey lead to so much hardship, pressure, hostility, when the hope of a new life had flourished in Turkey? Let's take a look at what we've been through, how we've come to this day, in the last few years. In the past few years, we've been through things this country has never deserved. Those who saw his iqbalin not in peace, but in war, making enemies of each other, all of a sudden, they changed words. At the Diyarbakır rally in 2011, the Kurdish problem is my problem. Erdoğan, who said "There is no Kurdish problem in 2015, what Kurdish problem?" But it didn't help. According to the June 7th election results, the AKP took a major vote fall by taking 258 MPs with 40 per cent of the ruling vote. Our party has achieved a significant success with 13.1 per cent vote and 80 MPs. According to the June 7th election results, the AKP lost its majority to form a government; Erdogan was in danger of losing power. Erdogan did not give Davutoglu the mandate to form a government until 9 July to extend his 45-day term for forming a government. The coalition talks, which should be completed within a week-ten days, were held by CHP branded and continued until August 18th, so the mandate to form a government was left in AKP for 40 days during 45 days of legal time. After that, we had a lot of painful experiences. Dear friends, some people live for their ideals; they cannot be insensitive to the suffering of those who are near them. Here, young believers of such faith wanted to build libraries, playgrounds to erase the scars of war from the children's memory in Kobane, but unfortunately, before going to Kobane, ISIS detonated a live bomb during the youth's press release, and 32 people lost their lives. Just two days after this tragedy, two police officers were shot in the head while sleeping in their homes in Ceylanpınar again. This murder was an excuse for the end of the peace process. Today, you know -- or you don't know it, I'm not sure -- this case ended in acquittal and was signed up for anonymity. Many of the research proposals we've submitted on this subject have been rejected. The curfews were declared one after the other. According to Turkish Human Rights Foundation Documentation Centre, from August 16, 2015 to June 1, 2017, when curfews began to be imposed, a total of 10 counties and at least 43 districts have been declared at least 218 consecutive curfews. During the curfews and blockades, a total of 861 people died, especially 291 people in Cizre. Human rights organisations have reported that 79 (79) of those who lost their lives were women -- children, over 30 (30) and over 60. We have not forgotten the mother of Taybet, but the ten - year - old Cemile Arakga. During the period, about 1,809,000 people were initially affected by the most basic violations of life and health rights, and about 500,000 people migrated from their places. On August 24, 2015, President Erdoğan, who met with Parliament Speaker Ismet Yilmaz (Ismet Yılmaz) in his palace, who raised the war as a campaign effort, decided to renew the elections. The election date has been set November 1, 2015. With the start of the conflict and the election calendar, media censorship has also been brought into the HDP, and since then this censorship has never been removed. HDP spokesmen were banned from the mainstream media. Opposition, democratic dozens of websites have been banned, media vehicles have actually been closed to all parties, particularly HDP. A trustee has been appointed to media organizations. İMC TV has been removed from TurkishSAT. Life TV, TV 10 and many other TV channels and broadcast organs have been shut down and we've had one of Turkey's bloodiest attacks, the 10th of October Ankara Gar massacre. KESK, TMMOB, TTB, DİSK organized a labour, peace and democracy rally on October 10th, where their names were reportedly involved in the press, while ISIS militants reportedly followed by a bomb attack in Gar Square killed 102 people and more than 400 people were injured. Instead of revealing the forces behind this attack, prisons were filled with opponents, journalists, academics, students. From the beginning of the war, political operations have been carried out almost every day against all who waged a democracy, including the DBP and HDP. In these political operations, around 13,000 HDP and DBP members have been taken into custody, and we're talking about 13,000 people, dear friends. Diyarbakir Bar President Tahir Elu Sur has been shot and killed during a press statement on the damage caused by four-foot Minare. The cause of death is still unclear. On 29 April 2016, Davutoglu was relieved of his power to remove and appoint AKP agencies and was asked to leave his post by taking the party to an extraordinary congress in the meeting held on May 2nd. On May 3, Davutoglu convened the MKYK, announcing that on May 22, 2016, the party would go to the extraordinary congress and that it would not run. This incident was called the President's coup against the government and Davutoglu. We arrived on May 20, 2016, where a heavy campaign was carried out to remove the immunity of HDP MPs. In violation of the Constitution, the bill on the removal of the immunity of our MPs passed through the Commission, followed by the support of the General Assembly's AKP, MHP and CHP. There was a military coup attempt on July 15, 2016. The State of Emergency was declared on July 20, 2016. The last one, the day of the panic election, has been extended for the 7th time so far, and the State of Emergency has been going on for almost two years. A total of 11 of our co-chairs, two groups of vice presidents, and our party spokesman, were arrested, and nine of our MPs were still under arrest, and 11 of their MPs were demoted. The day after the election was announced, just yesterday, two more of our deputies' representations were completely removed from reflecting the will of the people in this Parliament. While trustees were appointed to municipalities won by the Party of Democratic Territories with high votes, 95 of our co-chairs have been arrested so far, 56 put in prison. On April 16, 2017, there was an unfair constitutional amendment referendum on the conditions of the State of Emergency. The results were controversial, suspicious, and 51 per cent of the vote was yes by 1 per cent. Following the referendum, Erdogan became AKP President on May 21, 2017, but this brutal path did not end at the same time Erdogan was elected President. Thousands of citizens who have criticised the president have been tried and tried in cases of unprecedented defamation of the President in the world. None of the cases were against the presidential institution, aimed directly at protecting the President's personality. Political criticism has been considered insulting, and Article 299 of the TCK (TCK) has become a law of censorship. Ahmet Yıldırım, our deputy leader of the Group, has been demoted for calling the president a bastard. Erdogan, however, was able to say what he wanted. His words were considered freedom of expression by prosecutors. Starting today with the teacher Ayþe, who was going to jail with her baby, thousands of people have been in prison since 2015 for peace. The academics, teachers, public staff were fired because of their opposition to the KHKs alone. Almost all of the country's most valuable journalists are out of work. On the day the AKP comes to power, more students in prison are in prison today. As the Agriculture Bank gave the media boss $700 million in loans, the farmer was able to pour his milk on the floor to protest. Documents that expose the corruption of many people around the world, such as Man Island, Panama, revealed that those who taxed citizens per cent of the land, carried all their assets to tax havens, the sons of this country itself, the President's relatives, even the oil trades with ISIS. From referendum to referendum, in just one year, the dollar rose from $3.65 to $4.1, from 5.38 to 6.09. Today, the private sector has about $180 billion in foreign debt to pay off this year, folks. Turkey has 5 million 981,000 unemployed today. Only in 2017, yes, only in 2017, he died in at least 2006 labor killings. Turkey is ranked last in 38 countries in the OECD's Better Life Index. According to OECD figures again, the most unhappy students are in Turkey. That's why the government, which is unable to rule the country for another year, wants to rule the country for five years, ten years, even once it's President. The reason for the panic election is because all of the progress in the country, and if this economic picture continues, Erdogan knows that Erdogan will never be able to sit in that chair. Look, after this dark painting, let's relax a little bit with the young people's words because they know how to laugh anyway. Laughing is a revolutionary act, but anger kills life. Young people say: Let's think positively. I made my choice last week. He could have said so. Yes, they say so. I mean, would you? The problem is that we made the choice last week, didn't you know it? You could have said, "We did it last week." Because this whole painting is filled with the constant pushing you've been doing in today's time. There's another funny anecdote from today. The person who was the TRT editor in a television broadcast in France said: "We invite the Peoples, we call them, they are afraid, they don't come." Yes, that's what he said. I mean, I don't know what to say to that, but we're saying we should pack up and go tomorrow to TRT, see if it's a hand or a hand. Anyway, you can have the TRT, and we'll take our word, our strength. So, what do we want for this country, what kind of country do we want for it? It's time to make up your mind, fellas. We're not against elections, we're against impositions. But June 24th is now the time to make up your mind. This isn't about Recep Erdogan alone. Do we want a one-man regime, or do we want a parliamentary system where everyone obeys the law? Do we want one man or do we want a Parliament with more women and young people who won't say anything? Are the Regents able to deal with your local problems? If you don't want to choose us again, what democratic ways will you resort to? You have your claims, your ideals, and you want to run, but how are you going to open it, amongst those who hold these corners? What democratic procedures provide equal conditions and open your way? Do you want a democratic policy to open up these roads, a policy run by those who stand up to one person? Do you still want to stay from there and continue with a Constitution that has not been completely democratized since September 12th, or do you want a democratic, libertarian constitution that guarantees the rights of all citizens? Do we want separation of forces and independence of justice, or do we want a system where no one has faith in justice, where the judgment is held in one hand? Do we want all tax exemptions to be known to the rich and to be taxed on the backs of the poor, the middle incomes, or do we want tax justice? Forests, mecha fields, corporations, all beaches, let's go after those who get along with the AKP; do we want to drown in concrete instead of forests, parks, gardens, or do we want less concrete, or do we want more air? Do we want a food and agriculture policy that will increase this fertility in Turkey, a country of agriculture, which will be in harmony with nature, and enough for us and our children, and we want Russia's, the US GMO seed, the imported meat? Do we even want to buy nohudu from another country? Do we want citizens to decide their own habitats, or do we want our home to be nationalized in one day, shores, forests, streams, to be owned by the rich without being asked? Do we want our children to be condemned to a government that doesn't care enough to vote for the changing test system every day and the day of the university exam, or do we want them to have a stress-free, equal, quality education? Yeah, do we want a government that's brought in for its own self-inflicted use law, which we're actually opposed to, and that's just self-inflicted, or do we want a government that's established the Department of Child Rights and is working hard to protect them from all kinds of abuse? Do we want to be equal and free as women? Yes, our dear people may have been despondent by what has been done, but I would like to say once again that this country can be the leader of peace in the Middle East, and it can provide economic and cultural equality for all its citizens within its borders; it can be a country where everyone expresss their thoughts freely, not in anger, but in respect for each other. There's a country we can be happy in. We have the key to this. Only by turning that door handle will we be able to open that door and reach those who say the door is closed. Come on, darlings, I want us to be one on June 24th. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0039par0230	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0040par0231	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0039par0232	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0040par0233	At the address of the preacher, the oil trade of his relatives with ISIS has been uncovered. He has made a claim and made an accusation, such as that. This is a taunting of our president and party. I demand a word in accordance with the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0039par0234	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Let's not afford another tease, please.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0040par0239	Mr. President, we've just heard the speaker here, but he's expressed that our president, our president's relatives, has been trading oil with the DEAS terrorist organization... you're going to come out of this, Mr. Kerestecioğlu, you're going to prove it. It doesn't happen when you lie like that, throw it off the council stand. As long as you don't prove it, you're a mufter, remember that. The other: these arguments on Man Island, you know, they've really upset someone. It's been brought up. Here's how much money they sent abroad... and then it came out, and the money didn't go away. But they're still circling this Man. Another: Dear friends, look, there's an attitude, an attitude towards legal politicians in Turkey. In Turkey, as long as you're in law, you can do politics, anyone can do it. There's no restrictions on anyone at this point. Those who are on trial now are as white as milk! Let's see a trial process, come out. I'll give you a few examples. It says that the PKK has such power that it chokes you with its saliva. A congressman who says that. Now, when the law came in and was tried, sir, he was taken hostage. He was going to do democratic politics, was he? You will promote the separatist terrorist organization, with such power that it chokes you with its saliva, you will make threats, and then you will end up in prison. He was going to do politics, he couldn't do it. There's no such thing. We know how to translate those AKs for you. When you see it in law, you'll say, "We were innocent, we did nothing." The government builds dams, roads. Those roads were going to the PKK, those roads were built to neutralize PKK. Do you know why those dams were being built? The terrorist can't say "terrorist" either, they call it "gerilla." It was built to block the guerrilla's passage. Velev was made for her. The government can do that for him, too. Why are you so uncomfortable with this? You want him to come through here and slaughter people? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But when they talk, they talk about democracy and human rights here. In Kızılay Square, the MPs who showed up at the funeral of the terrorists who slaughtered dozens of our citizens were killed in that bomb attack by a six-month-old baby in the womb. We can't do politics as if they never existed. Our territory is being narrowed down. Sorry, you won't be able to convince anyone of that. You know what these guys want? You make people vomit blood, pressure them, extortion them, judge them, and let them run around as they please. That's their idea of democracy. We're not gonna let that happen. You imagine something like this, and if you think about it, you'll never see it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0041par0252	Thank you, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0042par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0041par0254	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0042par0257	I don't really think it's necessary to give Mr. Mush a lot of answers, but I'm just going to say that I've told a political process, and in that political process, I've explained how much power is in the monopoly of the judiciary, not just because of the words of politicians, not because of actions or anything else they've done, but because if they're asking about the data, I think it's necessary to ask Russia to ask them, because first, they have all the files. Erdoğan and his family are trading oil with ISIS. The words were now out of that partner they were closer to, and otherwise, while the Ministry of Economics was doing it, Mr. Elitas was reflected in the trade data made when ISIS was bordering the border. So we're not saying this by replacing a judicial mechanism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0041par0260	Ma'am, please complete.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0042par0261	But I would really like to say that, in any sense, there's a new election going on in order for a party to be sent to this parliament because it has crossed the dam and because it has given people hope, that the will of the people is not recognized.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0043par0262	Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0041par0263	Here you are, Mr. Mehmet.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0043par0264	We're not journalists, we're politicians. That's what we're talking about.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0044par0265	There are no documents on the island of Man. You said here, the prosecutor said there is. You've torn it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0043par0266	Such news came out, and I told them. You will not tell the news. You're a politician, you're gonna prove your point, and you're a mufter unless you do.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0044par0267	The prosecution said it was real. You said it wasn't real.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0045par0268	Thank you. Yes, sir, the third speaker on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group now belongs to İstanbul MP Mr. Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0046par0276	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll say the last thing first, good luck. Three weeks ago, Mr. President said, "Think on the side of this nation." What do you get out of that? So either resign or go to the election. Thank you so much for giving this nation a chance to get you off their backs, God bless you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We'll be doing another good deed on this occasion. Mr. Canikli explained that we're going to export 3,000 cryptos with a KHK. On June 24th, our beloved nation will be liquidating the cryptos of politics, the cryptos of politics. That's good news. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I'd like to start with a statement from Recep Tayyip Erdoğan: for those who say "Yes" to the State of Emergency -- Recep Tayyip Erdoğan says -- that you surrender to terror, you serve terrorism. Now, I ask the EC PARTI and Milliyetist Movement Party, who say, "Is it true that those who say "Yes" to this State of Emergency are surrendering to terror, surrendering to the language of terror, serving terror? Go out, Recep Tayyip Erdogan is right. Tell him "Recep Tayyip Erdogan is wrong." [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, it is unethical to go to the elections under the terms of the State of Emergency. It's not the State of Emergency. If you declare the strictest martial law in the world and go to the elections, the outcome is inevitable. There's a very common term: the effect causes reaction. If you give away the constitutional rights of 80 million, the right to settle and travel, the right to thought and conscience, the right to public opinion and opinion, the right to public opinion, the right to science and art, the right to press and to communicate, the right to assembly and to conduct, the right to property, the right to strike, the right to strike, he can't fit in the sack; the rebellion of the nation, the love of the nation's fundamental rights and freedom, the love of democracy is enough to take you out of here. In this regard, the Republican People's Party will come out of these elections -- thankfully -- as the 1st party, although a choice in the State of Emergency is not ethical or moral, although the world has passed on as a black spot for Turkey. I'm happy to announce this from the House in peace.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0047par0286	Who's your candidate, Mr. President, Mr. Ozturk?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0046par0287	Dear lawmakers, Turkey has been fighting democracy for sixty-eight years, and we're doing it nationally. May 27th, March 12th, September 12th, February 28th, July 15th couldn't break the nation's loyalty and love for democracy. Make no mistake, the damage to 27 May, 12 March, 12 September, 28 February and 15 July is more severe than the 20 July civil blow that has destroyed our democracy and the damage done to the State of Emergency and Turkey, more than the 5 coups I just counted. There is a democracy destroyed in Turkey. You've created an arctic society, an infamous country in the eyes of the nation of the world. You've camped out society, destroyed democracy and discredited Turkey. As we arrived, as we went to June 24th, five of the most fundamental problems in Turkey became painful. These five basic issues of Turkey are far, far above acceptable limits. Turkey is no longer mobile at the point of democracy, our economy, our education policies, our foreign policy and social peace and peace of mind; economic pert, democracy is in a coma, education cancer, foreign policy paralysis; you have already destroyed social peace and peace. In doing so, you created a huge collapse in the economy; the government's internal and external debt rose from 243 billion to 896 billion; our total foreign debt was 129 billion, 453 billion; the public's bank debt rose from 6 billion to 500 billion dollars, and it went from $1 billion to 53 billion. We can't end up counting the negatives in the economy. The actual number of unemployed today exceeds 6 million, with 4,800,000 unemployed in the young population between 15 and 29 years of age. We always say that unemployed people are like fish out of water, and that's what you've done to them, that's what your policies have done to them. (Applause from CHP rows) In 2002, it was 1.6, and in the five-year plan for development in 2013, for 2018 this year, the dollar you call $1.9. Those are the wrong things you tell people. If I tell you to lie, you'll sue. You've made a huge mistake here: through lifestyle, through ethnicity, through belief differences, you've divided people, then society, and you've dealt with the length of people's skirts, you've dealt with people's heads open and closed.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0048par0291	Oh, come on.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0049par0292	You're messing with him, you are. You're talking about yourself.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0050par0293	Look in the mirror, in the mirror.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0294	You've told lies. They drank at the mosque. You said, you couldn't prove it. You're looking for a mufteur, you're looking for a...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0049par0295	You're talking about yourself. You're talking about yourself.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0296	They kicked the headdress woman. You said, you couldn't prove it. You've used people's religious feelings and sensitivities in a very dirty way. You questioned people's sects. Excuse me, Armenian. These are the issues that divide society. In Turkey, we asked for the continuation of a thousand years of brotherhood with Turkish and Armenian, with Alevi, with Sunni, with no head open, and you divided the society.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0049par0297	Yeah, you're the one who did that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0298	You tortured him, you let him torture him. You put journalists and MPs in jail.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0052par0299	Yeah, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0049par0300	He's talking about CHP. He's talking about CHP.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0301	You banned art, censored art. You've tagged artists. You've removed the mayors from office illegally, appointed trustees. 51% of the population is run today by mayors who are not elected by the public. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The court's lawyers gave instructions to judges and prosecutors, gave orders, made it official. It's a matter of its own, but you've cut education out of science. Today, even in the least developed tribal states in Africa, education is more scientific, secular and without more money than Turkey. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've made Turkey a nation of lunatics and heretics. You have moved Turkey to an environment where blasphemy and insults were encouraged by Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0053par0308	Look, you lost again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0309	You have placed our high religion, our holy religion in the midst of discussion through these lunatics, these heretics. You again exposed Turkey to the political control of the European Union years later. You saw the Kurdish problem as pure political material. You've made Turkey and 80 million of our citizens an open target for various terrorist organizations. In particular, organizations such as PKK, DAEŞ have been aided and abetted by state officials and are still...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0054par0313	You can't say that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0314	...and still...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0055par0315	Tell me, what?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0316	... and Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan has still aided and abetted Mr. Kemal Kilicdaroglu, the PKK-PYD, the DAEŞ. He has not filed a criminal case for his claim.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0056par0317	He's hungry, he's hungry.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0318	He didn't pick up, he didn't pick up.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0057par0319	He can't!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0320	You had the governor and the governors first dig a ditch in a part of Turkey, like the construction chief, under the supervision of governors and governors, under your control. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] Then you bombed towns, villages, cities for those ditchs, bombed people.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0058par0321	Yeah, who's in those ditchs?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0059par0322	Isn't there a terrorist organization there, a terrorist organization?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0323	Instead of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, you sought solutions in Oslo, Kandil, Dolmabahçe, Imralı. Your irresponsibility, your inconsistency, your inconsistencies, our soldier, our police, and our citizen, paid with his life and blood. Dear friends, members of lawmakers, you have destroyed Turkey's reputation in foreign policy. By the United Nations decision, you have managed to raise a Greek flag on the islands of the Republic of Turkey and unregistered geographical formations, congratulations to you! [HIP rows ίBravo/!) Their voices, applause!) With the stake of our glorious flag from our own land, our sacred and precious lands, you took the flag from the mast and turned it horizontally and carried the flag to a region close to the border of Turkey. This is a shameful and painful point in which you have brought Turkey. [Cheers and applause from CHP rows!] You've applauded the imperialists who dropped bombs on Muslims.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0060par0327	Miraç Night.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0328	You have made Turkey a weak and infamous actor in the Middle East swamp. You've turned Turkey into Turkey, where it's been disputed. This is a painful fact of the situation in which you have brought Turkey into the Middle East and in the world. In the Middle East, our brothers and relatives, Turkmen, you have provided the Jihad of Kurds and Arabs, criminalizing and slaughtering each other. This is one of the great sins of the government, the AK PARTY. Today, negative statements about elections in Turkey are already being voiced on the first day.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0061par0330	You did it before they did.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0331	The world can't fix us, not America or Russia. From time to time you say, "O America!," and then you say, "My friend" America, "take your senses." What right do you have to make Turkey look like a fifth-rate country, between 189 countries, between 189 countries? (HPP) Today the US State Department spokesman is expressing concern about elections in Turkey. Mr. Speaker, don't worry, there's the Republican People's Party, there are 70 million people in Turkey who love democracy.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0061par0332	81, 81...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0333	Make no mistake, Turkey will take its place within the world's national family as a country that has improved democratic standards on June 24th. Germany says that the tension in Turkey, the tension created by the EC PARTI, is disturbing Germany's peace because of the tensions among the Turks in Germany.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0061par0334	Oh, yeah? Let's take a look at Germany, what are the PKK tents doing there?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0335	What right do you have to put Turkey in this position? Not to you, of course. All I'm saying is to the government.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0062par0336	They can't manage it, Mr. Group Vice President, they can't.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0337	What right do you have to put Turkey in this position?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0063par0339	Tell Germany, what are the PKK tents doing there?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0340	Now, dear friends, subcontractor...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0063par0341	Tell me that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0342	The farmer, the worker, the officer, the employer, the student, the housewife, the small shopkeeper, and the person looking for work from you, who complained about you, was troubled by you. You messed up their lives. Not enough, but for the last year, all of Turkey's large and small holdings, all of its industrialists, all of its merchants have been among you. It's time to get rid of you. There's one thing Turkey agrees on, and Turkey is being dragged into a disaster. Turkey has a consensus on that. That's why I said the last thing from the beginning. God bless those who make this decision. (CHP) We have our vote in the decision, but we thank those who made the first attempt to bring this decision to the House. Dear friends, there's something you haven't seen, something you're covering your eyes with. I wish the AK PARTY could go back to the 2002-08 settings. If the AK PARTY had returned to its 2002-08 settings, maybe it would have been -- you'd have had a chance in this election.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0064par0344	We'll see him in the chest.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0345	We'll see, don't worry, don't rush, don't jump in the pot before the meat. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You really did something in 2002-2008. I've been told to give you the right to kill a man. Between 2002 and 2008, you did something worthwhile. I wish you'd always been a victim, because you were a victim between 2002 and 2008. That's how you got yourself sucked in, but then you got financially mauled, and the longer you got your machetes, the more you got your pride. The more you've been courted, the more you've been spoiled, the poor, the poor, as a member of the AK PARTY has said. You put your backs to the rich.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0065par0348	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0349	AK PARTY MP says I don't. That's why this nation is going to rock you like a bull's-eye. (Applause) You have made Turkey thirst for trust, morality, justice, respect, peace, equality and freedom. Turkey's thirst for justice, trust, morality, respect, peace, equality, and freedom cannot be quenched by the Fırat River, and this is what you have done to Turkey. Why should these people get rid of you?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0066par0351	Then make him a candidate.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0352	Bear with me. Dear friends, you have to make the early choice that you call "the town" at the point of arrival. Mr. Erdogan called the early election treason. What happened? Yeah, look at your election motive, it's a shame! European Union relations. You're saying. Just two days ago, the European Union issued a harsh report on Turkey. So you're making the report published by the European Union fair and square. Why don't you just write something right on your alibi? (HPP) While we were trying to preserve Turkey's external reputation, you left nothing to destroy that reputation. Dear friends, anyway, we're making an early election, God bless you again. Remember what I'm saying, I think Mr. Erdogan and -- he's here, so don't get mad -- Mr. Gardener has taken advantage of his political euthanasia, for the best. (CHP clapping in rows) Have a good one.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0067par0355	Is he a candidate now?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0356	Recep Tayyip Erdogan's hatred, anger, ambition, and ambition are far above acceptable to our brothers and sisters of the EC PARTY. Go to your court, to your constituency, they'll tell you that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0068par0357	That's where we're coming from.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0358	Like the Republican People's Party, the People's Party, the Saadet Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) and the CHP voters, the AK PARTY will say, "Stop the disaster on 24 June." Just like us, like us, the GOOD PARTI, HDP, MHP. Like Saadet Partyli, Vatan Partyli, the AK PARTY voters will no longer be a party to your sins on June 24th, and you will lose the elections. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Sir, it's not prepared, it's fast... it's not an early election, it's a very urgent early choice, and I'm glad it is, and I'm glad it is. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, will you allow me to tidy up?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0069par0363	Finish in two minutes, please.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0051par0364	With members of the Republican People's Party, youth and women's arm, borough and mayors, members of the poll board, MPs, members of the Party, Central Board of Directors, and Mr. President Kemal Kılıçdaroğlu on June 24th are ready for the festival of democracy, peace and justice. Good-bye, sir. Good-bye, sir. My respects.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0070par0368	I'll see you at 25.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0071par0369	Mr. Altay, thank you. Sir, on behalf of the groups, the fourth speaker is Minister of the Justice and Development Party Group, Deputy Director of the Group Çanakkale, Mr. Bulent Turan. Here you go, Mr. Turan. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You've been on for 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0374	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the AK PARTI on our motion to move the 27th term legislature and presidential elections, which have been given by the meeting groups of the EC PARTI and MHP, to move forward. I salute your high council. Our Veteran Assembly, which I am most honored to be under its roof, has a glorious past that will not fall into any parliament. Our Veteran Assembly, which we will celebrate our 98th anniversary in three days, is the most special symbol of the resistance of an occupied nation. In 1920, when Istanbul, the capital of the Ottoman Empire, was invaded and parliament's Mebusan MPs were arrested, our deputies, who saw the country's sovereignty and future in the will of our nation, Gazi Mustafa Kemal, began a major movement, starting in Anatolia, and finally established the Grand National Assembly in Ankara. As the oldest member, the Sinop Mebusu, the Sheriff, sat in the chair and gave this speech...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0073par0377	Then you were the Vaudettian!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0378	In the name of the oldest member of this high Assembly, with God's help, I am opening the Assembly of the Great Nation, declaring to the world that with the help of God, our nation has taken direct responsibility for its destiny in full and outside independence, it has begun to govern itself. In these words, our Parliament has come to these years, and in a sense, we are renewing our Parliament's mission again on June 24th by saying, "By this motion, God." Mr. President, this Congress has led an epic struggle, led the Salvation War itself from here, never compromised national will, not even in a war environment a century ago. Leading a nation in poverty and poverty would not set an example for every nation. If we are united in the same affliction, if we share the same satisfaction, the will of the people is reflected in the Parliament. Because of this Parliament's personal standing, the republic has been declared, and we've come to this day. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been self-appreciated for each period, but when we look at it, we've left behind a great deal of work in the 26th term we're preparing to close. Like the July 15 coup, we lived together that day, which was a very different memory in our history of democracy, and was displayed with upright posture. We've done a great deal of work with our representatives from the enlargement of the immunity, the implementation of the presidential government system, the Civil Code change, the economics, to our custody dispute, from the enlargement of democracy to our security. From time to time in this history of democracy, we've had different periods. In 1950, a white revolution, so to speak, brought our democracy from childhood diseases to a period of maturity. There were Parliaments that were closed by coups, parties that applauded them, MPs who were proud to be with the MPs who sat in this parliament in uniform after the coups, but no matter what, civil will always prevailed, the nation's will always seized the matter and in a sense, as Mehmet Akif Ersoy said, namarem never touched the hand of our temple. Our democracy has fallen, but where we come from, we've all done great things together. On the evening of July 15th, terrorists in uniform, unfortunately, made our country pay a great price. In the history of Parliament, this Parliament, these MPs have written your name in gold letters. For twenty-six days, our nation has written the history of democracy in the squares. Our president's strong stance has given our entire nation love, hope. We trusted the leader nation, the nation's leader, and we all witnessed the historic era together. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have been going through times of distress that you've all known for the past few years, our state, our nation, international reasons. On the one hand, the PKK's operations with the support of international forces, the live bomb attempts of the DEA, the initiatives of the DEA to destabilise our country, and the operations of similar organisations have tried to reinvent us from time to time, but with the support of our nation, we have been able to overcome all these dangers together, depending on our nation. Nevertheless, despite this painting, we have been able to win an important victory such as Afrin with the support of our nation. Mr. President, after July 15th, the crisis of the political institution allowed the AK PARTI and the Nationalist Movement Party to read this political picture in a healthy manner again, and we finally had the opportunity to take it back to our nation. On August 7th, we wrote an epic in Yenikapi. Our nation, there, has given us politicians a very special task. As part of this special task, we've decided to move this election forward so that the painting emerges after the referendum can be brought to life as soon as possible. From time to time, they can't manage. There are those who say, "Why did this happen?" See, from the day the EC PARTY was founded, we've always known a mission to make the elections on time, to bring the people's trust into the last day chest, but I stress, there's been a system change in the referendum, our people have given us a task -- integration laws, new system, the Presidential system. We saw that these important assignments were a necessity for Turkey's stronger democracy, for its stronger security, for its stronger economy. No, sir, until yesterday we called the early election "No." Yes, I say again: We always wanted the early election to be on time, but there's a different picture ahead of us. It is our strategy to act according to this painting, to make decisions based on it, in a sense, to reveal our position after the arrow went off the bow. Therefore, the early election was a requirement that everyone would agree to. As you can see, just after the election's decision to move forward, the relief of economic balances, the positive approach of all parts of society, and different parts of society, showed that this decision was right. Look, if there was a Turkey that was so unmanaged -- no one believes what you're saying -- how would the President, who had received 52 percent of the vote, have the world's largest economic growth so far? We've made our claim very clear in agriculture, industry, national security, energy, everything. In what field do we have an extraordinary crisis? You know, the one who once threw a pamphlet at the president of a party and then owed three times as much overnight? Where's Turkey, which has increased inflation and foreign currency, which has exploded interest, where's Turkey, which still maintains stability, growth, investment in all areas, despite all the international crises? So let's stop being ruled, we've put together an exemplary way of ruling the world. See Turkey, which has grown three times more than EU countries; Turkey, which has grown larger than China, India; Turkey, which still shows the desire to increase its investments too much. Dear friends, when the AK PARTY took over the budget 16 years ago, it was 120 billion in its first power; I stress, 2002, the EC PARTY is making its first budget, 120 billion in this country. This year, we only have 134 billion education budgets. See, how unmanageable our budget, which was 120 billion 16 years ago, has only reached more numbers in the educational header today. Health alone, 120 billion. That's why no one believes in the unmanageable claim except you. You'll see. Just a moment ago, Mr. Group Vice President was excited to say goodbye. He said goodbye. There are records, and we will review those recordings on the evening of June 24th. You've had the same conversations 16 times in 16 years; no, it's political euthanasia, no, your last days. We did not do any work against the people, but we have turned our backs on the people. We never gave the guardians, the coupgers, the press, the wrong-doings a bonus. In 16 years, we have lived with our nation in all the referendums, local elections, general elections. So on the night of June 24th, we'll be able to have the same conversation again from this stand, hopefully. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Look, dear MPs, I'm the Çanakkale MP. If we could just buy the investments in Çanakkale, tell the whole of Turkey in the election, that would give a party a chance to win their election. The bridge, the hospital, the government buildings, the schools, the tunnels, the Trojans, the Assos, the Ezine OSB, which should I tell you?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0074par0389	But tell me what you sold.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0390	Everyone sees and lives the transformation of Çanakkale, the transformation of all Turkey. Who makes words, who makes business; these people now know them very well. Mr. President, Turkey has had the honor of being the voice of the oppressed, of universal conscience, rather than just an investment country in the EC PARTY in the years. Wherever there is an oppressed person in the world, wherever there is trouble, let Turkey give us a hand. We have now been able to identify Turkey with a spirit far beyond the borders of Edirne-Kars. Look, we didn't come so easily; the day came, our party was closed; the day came, our leader entered the prison; the day came, the day was appointed; the day came, the coup attempt came, but our group was never shaken, our faith in our nation was never lost. So we've reached the virtue of finding and overcoming all these possibilities. If that hadn't happened, if the claim of unmanageableness had been valid, could it have been the Firat Shield, could it have been Afrin, could the investments have continued? How unmanageable! We're not taking this step because of inability to govern; we're just taking this step so that this transition period can be faster, that our country can be more confident, that we can grow faster in economics, in democracy, in politics, in security. So after each election, the same understanding, pasta, coal literature, that humiliated our nation, began to make the same statements; you go ahead. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to announce now that we're going to have 2023 elections as long as this understanding continues, let alone June 24th. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You don't know if you have a candidate or not; you don't know who's doing what. When we hear about it on TV, aside from the candidates we laughed at, who have led this country for sixteen years, what will it say in all international meetings? You will see the voice of the oppressed, the pioneer of democracy, in the nomination of Erdogan, both June 24th and then we will plan. Because this nation knows our spirit, our approach, our intentions. See, he insisted, Mr. Vice President of the group, that there would be no extraordinary elections.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0075par0396	What about martial law if you want? What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0397	Dear friends, we are tired of explaining the contradictions of CHP in this country, but you are not tired of giving us the opportunity to explain your contradictions.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0076par0398	Explain your own contradictions, whether the early choice is treason or not.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0399	Look, dear friends, this isn't the first time this country has ever had an extraordinary choice.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0076par0400	It didn't happen when there was a state of emergency all over the country.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0401	The state of emergency is a different matter, the choice is a different matter.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0076par0402	It was in part of the country, then.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0403	Dear friends, the state of emergency is still a constitutional institution that gives some of our institutions extra rights to our fight against the other organisations. Choice is a different matter. There have been 12 elections in this country during the state of emergency, but more than that, the CHP itself has been elected in 1995.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0076par0404	Can't you just run the country?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0077par0405	You are banning May 1st, May 1st.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0406	When the CHP made its decision on early elections in 1995, it was not wrong, it was wrong to receive an AK PARTI!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0076par0407	What part of the country, what part?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0408	With this double standard, we will not allow these unjust accusations. These people are not disturbed by the extraordinary circumstances; our tradesman, our retired tea-drinker, our student who goes to school, no one is disturbed.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0078par0409	Ruined, miserable, all miserable.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0410	Who's uncomfortable? One: the people are disturbed. Two, you know who he is.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0079par0411	Learn the date, the date.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0080par0412	Learn the date.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0072par0413	So what I'm saying is that by extraordinary circumstances, the choice is a whole other agenda, and it's like the bride saying, "I'm short-handed." I'd like to say that it's a game that's already trying to make excuses for her defeat after the election.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0081par0414	How much is the diesel, diesel?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0082par0415	The horn has passed, September 12th...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0083par0416	Learn the date.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0084par0417	The space isn't narrow, the space is wide. We have sixty-six days to go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0082par0418	Sixty-six days, sixty-four to go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0084par0419	The state of emergency is not about choice. So in sixty-six days...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0085par0420	Sixty-four, sixty-four.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0082par0421	Sixty-four, sixty-four. You count where you are.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0084par0422	I'd like to say, dear friends, that it's a raid, that it's a rush.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0086par0423	Mr. Bulent, just a minute, sir... Mr. Sugar, you've been interfering for several times.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0087par0425	Sixty-four days.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0088par0426	Sixty-four days left.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0086par0427	Please don't interfere, please don't disturb my staff, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0088par0428	He's wrong, I'm informing him.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0086par0429	The preacher will speak his mind and you will endure. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0431	Mr. President, make yourself comfortable. She's been screaming all the time, screaming for three years. The less you know, the more you scream. That's why people who know less are going to scream a lot.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0090par0433	We know it's true, you don't even know the day right.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0434	We'll be on our way. You keep yelling, two more months. Dear friends, it's 1995. You know, sixty-six days, I'll give you his answer. Who's Fuat Tea? CHP's deputy head of the group at that time. He's making a motion, he's making a choice. How many days?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0091par0436	Fifty-eight days.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0437	Fifty-eight days. It's not wrong when the CHP decides to vote in 58 days, it's wrong when the AK PARTY takes sixty-six days. This double standard, these wrong reviews, continues to be seen by our nation. As you all know, yesterday at the Constitutional Commission, we shortened the 48-hour meeting and immediately came to the agenda. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Following the same motion, CHP has a motion to remove 48 hours of the same group's deputy chairman. Once again, any attempt within the law has a place above our heads. I'm not critical of this, but the right approach is not the right approach when you do the AK PARTY. We haven't broken the law in 16 years, we've done what the Civil Code says. In the election decision, two parties, two Anatolian parties, the party, which has roots in this land, made this decision and decided to go to the election. "Let's go to the election," they said, "where's the chest?" Today, there's not enough time. There's not enough time. There's not enough time. There's not enough time. We'll go back to our nation's arbitration and try to tell our people what we've done. In return for what we have done, we will say whatever our people say, we will not speak on the word of the people. But on the evening of June 24th, if people send you -- you've gone eight times -- you'll respect it if they send you nine more times. I'm warning you right now: don't say, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Each trunk has five representatives of each party. We jointly agreed on four parties in the transparent, democratic, law-abiding elections yesterday, we spent them together in the Commission. So I'm saying, like these papers, we're trying to do what you used to do right now. We will all contribute to this country's growth, its development. Please, just look in the mirror, please, just act different once. We're going to the folks, give them a round of applause, let's try to walk together. In the spirit of the time, this nation said, "Let's build together a strong Turkey, led by Tayip Erdogan in the spirit of time." Look, Dear President, the valued MPs, I would like to answer a matter which the group's deputy, in fact, has claimed to be our agenda; he said: "In the fight against the group, Erdoğan has not filed a criminal suit against Kılıçdaroğlu's claims. Mr. Altay, you're not a lawyer, you may be deceived; I'll tell you: Mr. Kilicdaroglu has filed a lawsuit against all of Mr. Kilicdaroglu's claims through his attorneys.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0092par0442	Punishment, punishment!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0093par0443	He's asking about the criminal case.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0444	I'll tell you why he didn't file the criminal case.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0092par0445	Huh, tell me.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0446	Dear friends, if you don't know, look at the Charter, look at the Constitutional Court; the speech of the group's presidents, MPs' groups is covered by immunity, no criminal proceedings.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0092par0447	Then why did you put the HDP people in prison?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0094par0448	Bravo!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0449	Let me tell you something, Mr. Kilicdaroglu, he's been tried for all his speeches outside the House, but he hasn't even gone to testify to anyone. I'm inviting you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0095par0450	Leave them alone, come to the last thing you say.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0451	All his speeches, his speeches outside the House, he was sued, he didn't go to the defense. If he goes to defense, the case will continue. You can't lie, you can't fake, you can't cheat.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0095par0452	We couldn't open it. We couldn't open it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0453	You've always done this, you've always done this; it's wrong.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0095par0455	We couldn't open it, he's telling the truth.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0456	These people have seen who's right and who's wrong. See, the biggest argument in the fight against ▪ is the strong leadership of Erdogan, the biggest approach to saving Turkey. If there were people like you in line against the press, against the press, against the banks, we wouldn't be here today, but Allah has the leadership of our President, he has the upright stance.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0096par0459	Can you complete in two minutes?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0460	Thank you. You keep saying the same thing, you keep using the same expressions and waiting for different results. Using the same expression and finding different results are legally, legally, medically impossible. Start singing differently, make the CHP party again for Mustafa Kemal.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0097par0462	Mustafa Kemal. CHP's party.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0463	Stop being a cartoon of other parties. Then perhaps the people will say yes to you. I'm telling you, the most stable party -- 25, 25, 25 -- is CHP. You won't find 25 this time. The election came, and every day, people who called it "choice" were unable to find a candidate. That's why we're walking...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0098par0465	The candidate is too weak. Why should we be weak?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0466	You're the kind of people who take all kinds of steps to avoid power. We'll be on our way.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0098par0467	Everyone is as nominated as Recep Erdogan at our party.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0468	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, two months to go. To defend the rights of the oppressed against the oppressor, to stand by the victim without bowing before the rulers, to be the conscience of the universal voice, the world is greater than 5. To continue to say so, let's all write history together on June 24th to ruin the games played on this land for two hundred years. Let's say, "Yes" to this motion. Let's try to bring our country into the world's top 10 economies in the 100th year of our republic.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0099par0469	That's why you screwed up! It's the same story for 15 years.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0470	Let's all try to catch the goals of 2023, 2053, 2071. History is calling us, history is calling us, come, let us all hear this call.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0100par0471	You haven't done it in 16 years, and now you're gonna do it?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0089par0472	I already wish you all the blessings of June 24th, the acceptance of our motion, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0101par0474	You said the same thing on April 16th; the same lies.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0102par0475	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0103par0477	Mr. President, in his orator talk, he has made a heavy and unsolicited attempt to accuse us of lying, number and con, sir, these days when we're all going to the election.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0102par0478	Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Please don't let me pick on you again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0103par0481	I didn't dare to pick on you, but... Thank you, Mr. President. Politics is no doubt a debate and a debate, but politics is not a word trick, it's not a lie, it's not a lie. (AK PARTY) Calm down. Where is Mr. Turan, drinking water? For God's sake, who said no to that election? You came out here and said yes to the election, you said no to the choice. You say no to the choice. For God's sake, the Republican People's Party... Just yesterday, I said let's make it June 24th, June 17th. What makes you think that if he does,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, We don't have that attitude. All members of the commission voted yes. All MPs of the Republican People's Party will vote yes for this election. It's like the Republican People's Party says no, and Mr. Turan tells people on TV that he wants the election so badly. I swear to God, half of you don't want that choice in your own world, and I do. (Applause) And I'll tell you something else: after the election, two thirds of you aren't here, but we'll still be sitting here, sitting there, sitting there. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, it's a good thing Recep Tayyip Erdogan had a strong leadership, but if he hadn't, he could have saved us from it... and the politicians who had gone through the trouble of this country had a sin and a flaw in those before the AK PARTI, but the greater one is yours, and you'll accept it. If it weren't for that, Recep Tayyip Erdogan wouldn't have said, "God forgive me! My people, I apologize! My father says, "Don't apologize, don't do anything to be sorry." Why did you wish, Erdogan? My respects.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0104par0491	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0105par0492	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0106par0493	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0107par0494	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0108par0495	Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0109par0496	Mr. President, I'm not asking for a speech on the bench on the basis of the procedure economy, I'd like to put it on the record.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0108par0497	I'll get your mic. I'm listening, sir. Please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0109par0499	Mr. President, I don't want to take a stand for bullying in the economy of procedure.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0110par0500	Here.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0109par0501	However, Mr. Group accused me of lying when it came to saying "No" to the election.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0110par0502	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0109par0503	I reject this, because of this: Although the CHP had proposed to remove 48 hours in the old practices, we offered it to four parties as our group yesterday, but it didn't sign it, but it said up there. So he said no. He said up there, "Yes." I wanted to make a statement about this confusion. Thank you again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0111par0505	He's on the books, sir. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0112par0507	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0111par0508	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0112par0509	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to file a report.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0111par0510	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0112par0511	Yes, I stand by what I'm saying, that I'll resign today to be a member of the parliament, including our general president, including our MPs. No, that's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0113par0512	They said, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0112par0513	No, that's not gonna happen. In 48 hours, I always say: The law, the Constitution, the Civil Code can be broken everywhere; under this lofty roof the law, the Constitution, and the Civil Law shall not be broken. We said, "Do the right thing." What's the matter with that? So instead of seeing him yesterday, if he were to meet today, the election would go back? Your problem is something else, and we know that, but don't worry, you'll learn your lesson. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0114par0517	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0115par0518	Sir, let's stop this two-way talk.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0114par0519	The last Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0115par0520	Everyone's expressed their point.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0116par0521	He did, sir. He did.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0115par0522	The statements are in the middle, the facts are in the middle.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0117par0523	Mr. President, they insisted on running for office.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0115par0524	Mr. Bulent...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0117par0525	They insisted on running for office. They said it was an election, and I want to say, Mr. President, that the election took longer than the old practice.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0115par0526	Sir, thank you. Now we're going to talk on behalf of the individuals. Mr Muharrem is the first speaker on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Man. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0535	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Here's the early election motion for 552 rows. We met yesterday at the Constitutional Commission, where all of our MPs, our members of the Constitutional Commission, didn't vote either, nor did we write a vote of opposition, but we wrote down in history, we wrote down in the Constitutional Commission, but we voted in history because 24 June 2018, will be the Republic of Freedoms, the year of hope will be 2018, the year of democracy, because we believe in it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0119par0537	It's a dream! It's a dream!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0538	Yeah, dreams are good, too. In two days, on Monday (April 23rd), we will celebrate the 98th year of April 23rd. Ninety-eight years ago, even during the occupation of the country, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends opened the House first, and we, together with the Parliament, carried out our struggle for independence, freedom, salvation, all decisions were made in Parliament. But what did you do? You've disabled the House, the Parliament, the State of Emergency. Even under the occupation of the country, this Parliament has not been shut down, but unfortunately, for the past 20 months, democracy and law have been suspended, Parliament is off-line, and you have done everything with the decrees, with the State of Emergency, with the KHKs, and you have done everything but fight terrorism, and the national will, Parliament has been really disrespected. Where was the June 24th early election date announced? At the palace. The palace regime is being investigated every day, not the political power centre, but the palace. The court announced that the elections would be held on 24 June. Then what are we talking about here? Don't you have any respect for this Parliament, this Grand National Assembly of Turkey? At least let some statements be made at the Assembly's General Assembly after they've been accepted. Now, this clearly shows the custody and oppression of the court regime. So, on June 24th, this court regime, this one-man regime, people will say, "Stop." People will teach you a lesson in democracy. Look, on April 16, 2017, you broke up the separation of forces with a malicious constitutional amendment, and you said: "In six months, we would pass the law of integration from Parliament." Yes, in six months, the Presidential government system had to pass the laws of compliance according to the Constitutional amendments and according to the Constitutional amendments. Where are the laws of harmony? If you were planning an early election, where are the laws of harmony? Do you know what the legal problem is right now? Look, we've removed a sentence from the Constitution with a amendment. He was cut off from the political party. The President had a sentence, didn't he? You have removed this from the Constitution, and you have not made an arrangement in the Constitution, but there is now a ruling in the President's Election Law. If there's a president, he'll be cut off from his party. He says there's still one, you haven't. Right now, President Erdoğan is completely against the Election Law and the Law because there is no regulation in the Constitution. Why didn't you? Will the vice president be able to attend the meeting when the President of the National Security Council, which will be elected tomorrow (June 24th)? Have you taken care of the laws of compliance in the National Security Council Act? We've lifted martial law, the martial law stands. We're dealing with such ill-advised, unpredictable politics. Admit it. Here's a sign that you can't manage, that you can't.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0120par0544	Panic, choice, panic.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0545	Let us do it, we'll help you, we'll deal with this.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0121par0546	You guys run your party, you run your party.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0547	If you'd told us the law of harmony, we'd have taken care of it. Look, six months. You said six months, six months. Now, to lies, contradictions: Mr. Prime Minister, you declared the State of Emergency here in the coup d'état of July 20th, against the coup and what did the Prime Minister say? In a month, we'll settle this in 45 days. We will take effective measures regarding the investigation, and the State of Emergency will be lifted. Twenty months have passed, twenty months. In the State of Emergency, we don't make the Constitutional Amendment in this country. He said, "Mr. Prime Minister, but it's been done, but it's been done." The Prime Minister was telling the truth, he meant well, but there's a will on him; he's the only man. One man wouldn't allow it, one man wanted a constitutional amendment in the State of Emergency, a referendum, because there's a fear in the palace. Is it possible that sovereignty will go to power? Someone is doing politics for the personal economy, and someone is doing politics for Turkey, for democracy. Our struggle is the struggle for democracy, our struggle is the fight for justice, justice. Mr. Bekir Bozdağ is also here, the government spokesman, the most competent name, what did he say a month ago? Since it's very important that the presidential government system take effect, a month ago your government spokesman came forward and said there will be no elections early. No early elections, where do you get that from? The elections will be held on time, and everyone must make their plans according to this. Politics isn't lying to society, to people. Politics isn't cheating. Politics isn't about setting up other parties. Politics is not about legitimacy in order to stay in power. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, don't do this to Turkey. We're ready, no problem, but I'll tell you one thing, I'm asking your conscience, I'm asking your sense of justice... here, there's a lot of harm in staying in power for a long time in democracy. As he says, a thinker corrupts power, absolute power corrupts absolute power. Sadly, the court regime has lost some values, so we have this choice. Yes, lies, contradictions continue. No harmonies, either. Even today, with 100,000 signatures, we know how to identify the presidential candidate, but people don't know, they haven't come, we'll see. Couldn't these have been removed and made early elections? I ask your conscience, your sense of justice: Is it political ethics in this Parliament, in this General Assembly, in this Veteran Assembly, to extend the State of Emergency for three months and make an early decision on the same day?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0122par0554	The same thing happened during the CHP.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0555	At the time of the CHP, there was no State of Emergency in all Turkey; there was an OHL in certain provinces. For the first time, Turkey is going to a general election in such a order and the presidential election, and Turkey does not deserve it. Do you know what the State of Emergency is, Congressman? Here, thousands of people who were innocent students were expelled from prison, in military prison, in private prison, in terrorism, with no involvement, without a trial, without an investigation were left to their families to die as civilians. Do you know what the State of Emergency means? There was a teacher, Ayþe, who was attached to the White Show, who shared his feelings. He said, "Don't let the children die. Let the children die." He said, "The children should die." Today he will go to prison with his six-month-old baby this afternoon." He's been sentenced to a year and three months in prison for terror propaganda, and today, he's going to jail with his six-month-old baby, and he's going to do 11 months. Now, that's the State of Emergency, Congressmans. (CHP cheers) It's the State of Emergency who created this, created these injustices. Voltaire has a very good saying: I don't agree with your ideas, but I will give my life so that you can express them. Where's the freedom of thought? Where's the freedom of speech? If a woman, a teacher, a mother, is going to prison for saying that children should not die. In this country, you have destroyed justice, justice, law for her.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0123par0558	In the palace, in the palace, freedom of opinion in the palace!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0559	File in front of the Supreme Court. This injustice can only be stopped by the Constitutional Court's decision to stop the execution as a precaution, there's no other way, but we don't think he has the courage to do it. Please follow, and see what dramas, injustices, illegalities you've signed. In such an unjust order, you're taking Turkey to a historic election. Yes, on June 24, 2018, democracy will win, believe me. You, with the referendum of April 16, 2017, destroyed the state of law with those constitutional amendments; you collected the law, the law, and the judiciary in one hand.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0124par0562	Can you wrap it up in a minute, please?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0118par0563	At the moment, I am unfortunately the state in the palace. There is a president who says, "I am the leader of a political party." According to the Constitution, Mr. President has also chosen to be president of his political party, although he is not obliged by law; I wish he hadn't, because the presidency is a high office. If it represents the state and nation of the Republic of Turkey, we need a president who embraces 81 million. So we're really neutral, and we're going to pick 81 million presidents who embrace Turkey on June 24th, make sure of that. (HPP) Make sure of that, because people now see injustice, what happens. Right now, Mr. President, your president is not neutral, he's not embracing 81 million, so I'm saying June 24th, 2018 will be the republic of freedoms. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0124par0566	Thank you, Mr. Man. Sir, on behalf of the government, the Prime Minister, Justice and Development Party's President, Minister of İzmir Bey Muterem Bazili Yıldırım Bey will speak. Here you go, Mr. Lightning. [[Standing ovations from the Council of Ministers and the EC PARTY]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0125par0571	Mr. President, the esteemed members of our Veteran Assembly, the Grand Assembly, I salute you with love and respect. Today is a historic day, a turning point. The Grand Assembly will decide on June 24, 2018, for the presidential elections and general elections. I pray that the elections will be good for our country and our nation on this blessed Friday. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, through a public vote on April 16th, our nation made a change in the current political system, making a decision on 16 April to the Presidential system for a stronger parliament and a stable execution, equipped with the democratic and legal state of the people's direct will. In the parliamentary system, when we look at the years that have passed, the custody focal points have repeatedly tried to suppress national will, and from time to time, democratic operations have been interrupted by direct, indirect interference, and coups. As a country, as a nation, we have suffered a great deal of these interventions, and we have paid great price. Unfortunately, the savings of our nation, our industrialist, our tradesman, our farmer's sweats have been destroyed by these interferences. Each time, our country was led to economic crisis and instability. Custody centers have repeatedly tried to discredit politics and render the state ineffective. By throwing seeds of separation among the citizens, they tried to disrupt our unity, our body, our brotherhood, to gain position, to gain power by weakening the nation. They never considered Turkey's reputation, its honor. The July 15th treasonous coup attempt and developments behind it made it mandatory for the Republic of Turkey to maintain both the unitary state structure and a sound constitutional structure in which it can preserve its national unity and brotherhood. In the 16 April vote, our nation ruled out custody by saying yes to the Constitutional Amendment, securing democracy, the future of the country. An uninterrupted democracy, the absolute power of the national will, has begun the transition to strong and stable political governance. Turkey will now have the ability to decide faster and effectively implement decisions with the presidential government system. The full implementation of the system will undoubtedly be possible with the choices ahead. This election on June 24th is also crucial to Turkey's 100th-year goals. Turkey will also approve its future, stability and future in this election. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, the mandate to conduct with the constitutional amendments of April 16th was decided to be entirely by the President elected by the people's votes. A change in the management system has raised high expectations in every aspect of life from the way the bureaucracy does business to the cycle of commercial life. Expectations for the quickisation of the presidential government system have increased day by day in society. If the system has changed, then why are we waiting? The question is being asked seriously. Our citizens have begun to see the wait as a lost time until November 2019. Not only our citizens, but some of the political parties have made statements in the past that early elections will be held from time to time. Evaluations such as whether there will be an early election or not? The planning of the future in society has also begun to negatively affect the predictions of our citizens. In addition, the ongoing geopolitical risks and developments in our geography have made it necessary for Turkey to implement the presidential government system with all its institutions and structures. We can't ignore this situation, we can't ignore those risks. The EC PARTY, as you know, has managed to win 5 general elections since 3 November 2002, 3 local elections, 3 public voting, 1 presidential elections, and a clear first in the nation's favor. Our whole nation knows that we've always acted on this by putting the interests of our country ahead of the nation, and we've made decisions based on it. We've also made this decision to seek the greater interests of my country and the nation. I'd like to make this very clear: the focus on Turkey's plan was a huge disappointment, along with the announcement of our President's election date. Our democratic policy reflex has blocked the dark accounts and rhetoric towards Turkey. Members of parliament, in the last two years of Turkey, our democracy has faced very difficult trials. Praise be to God, with our President's leadership, we have successfully and successfully managed this process. This Veteran Parliament, which has been granted by the will of the nation, has been attacked by an unprecedented attack in history. In the face of a traitorous coup attack on July 15th, this Parliament, with courage and courage, taught its members the lesson needed. The hands of our flag, our tyranny, our democracy, our national will are broken by the will of the nation. Once again, congratulations to the V.A. and the V.A.'s esteemed MPs for their noble stance. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) This struggle we've put forth will be written in gold letters in the history of democracy. Dear lawmakers, sometimes people don't know the importance of their history. We live things, it's very ordinary to us, but future generations will realize how much more important it is to countries when they study these events. We are the people of history, who will write history, and they will describe it in the best possible way. (AK PARTY) I would also like to say that I am very happy to be a friend of yours who has contributed to this fight as Prime Minister of the 65th Government. Today I have the honor to address you as Prime Minister of the 65th Reich and as the last Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey. Thank you, thank you, thank you, friends. In fact, everything, this constitutional amendment, this system change is a matter that has always been on the agenda in the recent history of Turkey. I remember, from 70 to 80, the division in politics, the gap in politics has always brought the system debates to the attention of Turkey, and there has been a new constitution in Turkey, even after 1921, and Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk Ziya Gökalp, Diyarbakır Mebusuna, Agaoğlu Ahmet Bey, and their constitutional work is still available in the Republic Museum. When we look there, we see that the proposed model is the presidential model. However, due to Turkey's emergence from the Intriguable War, and the harshness of its circumstances, this model has been abandoned and decided on the continuation of the parliamentary system. Dear lawmakers, the government system change that occupied the country's agenda over the years, basically, after the low coup attempt on July 15th, for our country, what was a vital issue for our nation, has been fully matured, perceptive, and our duty as politicians has been to implement the country's expectations as soon as possible, the spirit of Yenikapi, which began after July 15th. On the basis of the spirit of the National Movement Party's President, the People's Garden and National Movement Party Group and the AK PARTY Beatup, the Cumhur Alliance actually launched its first steps at the point of constitutional change. (Applause from the Council of Ministers and the AK PARTY) And the amendments to the administration system came up on the Constitution, the first meeting with Mr. Gardenli on November 10th, and finally, on December 10th, this proposal was presented to the Grand Assembly, which was the consensus of the two parties. Commission talks and finally, on January 21st, the Supreme Assembly adopted this amendment, and the public vote campaign began. April 16th -- your property -- is the date of approval by our people. Yes, after April 16th, Turkey has now reached a different point in terms of the management system; some articles have immediately entered into force, and some articles have been postponed to the election. Once the early elections are discussed, it is no longer useful for society, for the country, for the future, for anyone to delay by insisting on it. So, again, considering Mr. Bahçeli's need for early elections and the geopolitical risks left to our country, our President announced on April 18th, our principle decision to make the election on Sunday (June 24th) to our people, to our nation. It is our duty here, all of us, to go before the people and to give them our account. We're already coming from 2002 to this side, and we're going to the elections. So there's no infrastructure, there's no reason for this choice, when it's premature, when it's dominant, and so on. Political parties -- whether they want opposition or power -- have to be ready for the election at any moment. From what we've seen, there is such preparation. As soon as the election date is announced, the candidates for the Republican People's Party continue one after another. My advice to Mr. Kemal is to make it quick, and then there will be no line. [[A round of applause from the Council of Ministers and the EC PARTY]] For the first time in these elections, we've ended alliances behind closed doors, hidden in the past elections. Now we've decided that he can enter the election with whoever he wants by preserving his corporate identity, his emblem, his badge, and we've made a legal change in that direction. As a result, our alliance is the nation's alliance, the Cumhur Alliance. For the sake of our country's future as an AK PARTY, we go to the polls by combining our forces to eliminate any outside threat; good luck! [[The Council of Ministers, the EC PARTY and the MHP rankings (Bravo!) voices, standing ovations]] Yes, dear friends, of course, as the last Prime Minister of the 65th Reich, perhaps there's a chance that we won't come and see. We have a right to each other, so give us your blessing. Even though Mr. Engin has made a division here, you'll go, 60 percent of you won't come back, I'll come back. Let's see who comes and who doesn't.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0126par0589	People know that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0125par0590	I say, "What is my place, what is yours, what is yours?" I greet you with love. Thank you, thank you. Our candidate is President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, a man of the nation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0127par0593	Thank you, Prime Minister.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0128par0594	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0127par0595	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0128par0596	Sir, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to offer a brief welcome for 60.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0129par0597	Are you going to apply for the nomination, Mr. Engin?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0130par0598	Explains the nomination, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0131par0599	Please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0132par0602	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, did he mess up the government's license plate number, or did I mess up the government's number, is that the 65th government?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0133par0604	He's not aware of himself.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0132par0605	Yes, Mr. President, I would like to point out that in parties, the work of democratic mechanisms in political parties, I find Mr. Prime Minister's dissension and dissension to be a source of regret on behalf of our democracy. I'm announcing our candidate.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0134par0606	Mahmoud Tanal.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0132par0607	Our candidate is democracy, free and independent Turkey.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0135par0609	Good luck, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0136par0610	Mr. Altay, I believe, not institutions, not concepts, but people will run; your sense of humor is understood.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0132par0611	Democracy will win.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0136par0615	Sir, the second speaker on behalf of him is Deputy Chairman of the Group İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush Bey. Here you go, Mr. Mush. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0618	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly and your delegation. I now wish that the election decision on June 24th, which will soon be voted in the House, will bring blessings to our nation. As we know, the government system has changed in Turkey, along with the referendum on April 16th, and the presidency has been transferred to the government system. Such an argument has been made, both in Turkey's region and in order to eliminate uncertainty as soon as possible, due to the external developments in the former system. And that will soon come to Parliament's approval. Now, there's something the speakers from the main opposition party about this election decision, one of the speakers who just said, "This decision is taken into the Ashli, which is imposed on you, and you will be voted yes."
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0138par0622	We'll use it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0623	But the same orator and member of the group, the vice president, says, "We'll call it a yes." Now, come on, we've been pressured, what's happening to you?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0138par0625	We want elections, we want elections, we want elections now.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0626	Can't we?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0138par0627	I doubt you do.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0628	It's pressure when we want it, it's democracy when they want it. That's CHP, that's CHP.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0139par0629	Brother, you didn't ask for a Gardener, Gardener.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0630	Now, dear friends, valued MPs; they can't manage Turkey, so they went to the election. That's what they're saying. This bet is uncalled for, it has no foundation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0139par0632	You didn't ask, the Gardener did. Your candidate's been identified by the Gardener. For God's sake, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0633	Because for 16 years Turkey has ruled the AK PARTY, and for 16 years we have been able to get that power from our nation.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0139par0634	Who are you, running for office? The gardener identified your candidate.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0635	Is there going to be an early election or not? After the decision has already been made, after such a statement has been made, the response of both markets and society and our nation to this has been in a positive direction. After June 24th, the election will be out of our nation's agenda for five years. In the same way, look, dear MPs, if you have the heart to choose early, go to Er Square. These are speeches made by Mr. President, Mr. Kilicdaroglu.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0140par0637	2017...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0638	Now, it's got two dimensions: choose early. We've done it, we're going to make decisions. So what's the meaning of pressure? As of the origin of the press, we were not expected as a word. We are not prepared.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0141par0639	You think you're raiding.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0640	Since they can't say it directly, I've already told you -- there's no choice in the election, so that it doesn't change to youth. They use phrases like that. Now, Kılıçdaroglu says: "Go to Er Square, I am ready."
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0141par0642	You didn't ask for it, Mr. Gardener did. Or was it a consulting fight?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0643	Now, I think this is the call of Kilicdaroglu, and since he's not a wrestler, it's not a call to the wrestling square; it's a call to a chest, a call to a race.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0142par0644	TV, TV...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0645	Let me get this straight.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0143par0646	You're getting it right.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0647	Well, Mr. President's nomination has been announced. We're waiting. When will Kilicdaroglu come out? We're still waiting. Look, he has not shown as much courage as Didem Engin. He has not yet been able to announce his candidacy.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0144par0648	What's it to you? Look at your candidate!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0649	It's just been published in the press, Muharrem Tütü says we've seen each other. I told him you should be Aday, you should be the candidate for the Republican People's Party. But he told me he'd investigate the candidates in the polls. I've got a survey, I've got various candidates, I'm looking into them. Now, Mr. Kilicdaroglu knows very well that he will lose if he is a candidate, and that he will become president of the Republican People's Party after losing, so Abbas cannot run because he knows very well that he will be a passenger.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0145par0652	Allah knows it, and Allah knows it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0653	Now, what does a good politician do after he's made so many statements, so many challenges? He keeps his word.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0146par0654	How much you love our president, you're always talking about him everywhere.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0655	The polls are open, you're seeking power, and you told the head of the ruling party as the leader of the main opposition party. What do you do? You'll do as you're told. If you don't do what you're supposed to do in politics, they'll describe you as a poor politician. So you have to do these things.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0656	It is for you and for you and for the palace and for the palace.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0146par0657	There is no early election. You lied to the people 40 times!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0658	Now, the elections will be held in Turkey, with the secret vote, open booking principle, under the judge's supervision, with the freedom of propaganda.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0659	What about the state of emergency? What about the state of emergency, sir?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0660	Look, there's something mixed up by the Republican People's Party in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0661	What about the state of emergency?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0148par0662	Scream, we can't hear!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0663	He thinks all elections are like the ones in 1946. You know the elections in 1946. After World War II, the democraticists won, and the whole world moved on to democracy.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0664	What about the state of emergency, the state of emergency?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0665	The Republican People's Party -- the one-party period -- was forced to hold the elections in 1946.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0666	You were in it during the one party, and you were in it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0667	But he pretended to be, and it was really in 1950, and after 1950, they never saw power again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0149par0668	You didn't read it right, read it right.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0147par0669	You were in that one party.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0670	Now, look, I'd like to share a few things about the 1946 elections.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0149par0671	We were in power in 1978, you know wrong.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0672	Look, that's the polling box where they vote in the 1946 elections. You see that, don't you? The flag of the Republican People's Party, its six arrows are all over the place, the crate is wrapped. In such an environment, the vote is cast in 1946.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0149par0673	Yeah, well, now you're doing what he's criticizing.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0674	The vote is open. But after the votes are used, CHP members enter a room.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0149par0675	You're doing the same thing. Don't follow his example, follow democracy.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0676	There are only CHP people in the room, they count and leave the votes; they say we won.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0150par0677	What did you do on April 16th?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0137par0678	They said that there were more CHPs in some cities than there were in other cities.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0150par0679	What did the YSK do, what did he do? Mr. Mush, wait a minute, wait a minute... Mr. Ibrahim, I beg you, I beg you... you are interfering with me, please... He's not telling the truth, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0683	They said there were more Republican People's Party votes than there were people living in a province. When did this happen? 1946. The Republican People's Party believes that every election is like this because it organises the 1946 elections. It's not like that; wake up, wake up.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0150par0684	What did you do on April 16th?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0685	After every election there was Shaib, there was a trick. The Republican People's Party, and from here, it speaks of democracy.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0152par0686	Now you're doing the same.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0687	Dear MPs, the Republican People's Party is not a democratic party. If they could, if they tried to run the country, they would make all the choices as they did in 1946, no doubt...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0153par0688	Boo! Boo!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0689	... look, there's no doubt about it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0154par0690	You don't believe what you say, but you have to say it, say it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0155par0691	Get up, pray to CHP.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0692	Now, every speaker that comes out here talks about one man, one man, one man... friends, we don't have one man, we have the man standing up to challenges. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now I'm going to win the election. The Republican People's Party says we're going to win. Look, the island of the Cumhur Alliance has been engaged in dozens of programs -- 49 counties, dozens of districts -- in the last two months, and has visited dozens of heads of state, visited dozens of countries, and is not in place. The AK PARTY agencies, the Alliance agencies, they work day and night, they work day and night, they run the streets, but what does the Republican People's Party do? He's doing a sit-in, dear friends, a sit-in.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0156par0695	He's doing it for the state of emergency, the state of emergency.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0696	Look, you can't win the election sitting down, you can win the election working.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0156par0697	Oh, come on!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0698	Mr. Engin Altay, starting in 1950, the nation has given you a seat. You've been sitting here since 1950, and I'm afraid you'll be sitting there another 50 years, but no one's getting anything by sitting down.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0157par0700	We'll get up, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0701	Dear lawmakers, last we heard, the Republican People's Party... I just mentioned the polls on the island. Look, this poll job looks like this: you made a statement in 2017: we want elections. You said "Hodrimeydan!" You called the candidate with polls. So it's actually like looking for a needle in a haystack. Sometimes they think it's bright out there looking for a candidate, but they still haven't found him. It's also called a microscopic search. Friends, that's not how you find a candidate; there's a candidate, there's a candidate. If you really intend to rule Turkey, if you have such a claim, you don't look for a candidate with such surveys as looking for a needle in a haystack, you don't waste time with this kind of work.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0158par0702	That never happened.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0151par0703	So look, I want to make one more thing clear: What is CHP's view of the nation? On February 26, 2016, one lawmakers said that 1 of the four people in the government had a social democratic structure, and the other 3 were bigots and zealots.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0159par0705	Who says that?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0160par0706	Says who?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0161par0707	Mr. Mush, one minute extension, please complete.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0708	Now you're asking for a vote to exceed 50 percent of what you're saying is a yoghurt and a bigot. Those people won't vote for you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0163par0709	Who says that? Who says that?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0710	You can't get votes from those people.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0164par0711	You're lying!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0712	Ask your deputies. We don't lie, you do.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0165par0713	Tell me the truth! Name, name.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0714	On February 26, 2016, Hatay MP Hilmi Yazici -- named after him -- is on a program abroad. 3/4 of them are bigots! Now you ask for a vote of three quarters, and they will make you a ruler, and they will not make you a ruler.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0166par0716	He wouldn't say that, he wouldn't say that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0717	You can't be in power with that head, people haven't given you the job to run the country, they won't. Another thing I want to remind you, dear friends, is that in 2011, the polls of Kilicdaroglu say that when I became General President, I targeted myself, our goal was 40 percent: CHP 25.98 per cent. If I fail before the June 7, 2015 general elections, if my vote falls, I will remain in my seat. I have no idea. CHP has received a vote: 24.88. Guys, is he up? Mr. Altay, is he out of the chair?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0167par0721	I didn't hear you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0722	That's what he said... I'm asking you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0168par0723	What's it to you?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0724	Before November 1, 2015, our target is 35 percent, we're going to hit it, and we can get through it. If the CHP's vote falls, we can't do it. We'll say that the CHP's vote is 25.2.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0169par0725	How scared you are, you have nothing to talk about but Kilicdaroglu. Talk to the president, you'll talk to him.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0726	Before the April 16th referendum, he will definitely vote no. He says, "Yes."
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0169par0727	Tell the worker, the villager, the tradesman, the farmer, how many times has the diesel seen a raise? Tell him about the increase in electricity? Tell him about the rise in natural gas, tell him about them.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0162par0728	Now, what he said about the next election: our target is at least 60 percent, not 51, 60. I say 60 percent, but I can get 70 percent. Now, his past predictions are clear. He can't run because he doesn't believe in his goal. The CHP will get the biggest slap in its history, remember.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0170par0731	We'll see.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0171par0732	Mr. Mush, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0733	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0171par0734	Here you are, Mr. Engin Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0173par0735	It's not the people's slap, it's the teasing.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0736	Mr. President, thank you. He doesn't think a member of our parliament's assessment of the community is accurate. There's a need for an explanation, but I think I need to make an assessment and use the right to answer, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0174par0738	Come in for two minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0742	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we called the Ark, that's for sure. Secondly, I know that society is curious about the Republican People's Party candidate, and I'm very pleased that you're so curious that it confirms that we will reach this conclusion with an election victory. Thank you, don't worry. (CHP) I'm telling you again, democracy is the winner of this election. Democracy will win, no doubt.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0175par0745	Democracy will certainly win again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0746	Now, the muflis trader, the bankrupt merchant, mixes old books. Now that my brother Mehmet Mush has gone all the way to 1946, your situation is really, really difficult. [[Applause from CHP rows]] But, of course, the claim is that a congressman... ...75 percent of the community?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0176par0750	Yeah, that's what he said.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0751	...that 75 percent of the community claim to be bigots and illiterates. We can't accept it, we can't approve it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0177par0752	Then do as you're told.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0753	If such a word is said, it must be done.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0177par0754	Do it, do it. And those who address the oppressors and the martyrs.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0172par0755	We believe that every member of our beloved nation is a peasant, a peasant, a cartoonist, a cartoonist, a tie-wearing fezli, a first-class citizen. And I'd like to ask Mehmet Mush... Mehmet Mush, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is not just our brother, but your Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, remember that! I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0178par0759	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0179par0760	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0178par0761	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0179par0764	Mr. President, I have been promised to show our attitude. We're a party that's ready to vote under any circumstances. In fact, I must say that there is no party as ready to resort to the will of the people as we are to deal with all the challenges and the ability to overcome them, the tradition, and that is clear to us. However, yesterday's early election was treason, and now I've asked for it. Come, vote here. It's an imposition. We're opposed to this coercion, and I've sunk the economy, the country, but now let's go to the election for my own sake. We're opposed to the understanding that says, "Let's go to the election." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0180par0768	Please complete, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0179par0769	Well, that's not surprising to us. But since we're opposed to the election, we're not going to vote today in this square full of privates and lies. On June 24th, we call on all democratic forces to join forces and vote to end this alliance of persecution and open the gates of democracy. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0180par0772	Thank you. Mr. Elitaş, here you are, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0181par0775	Mr. President, while Mr. Altay has just responded without taunting the bench, the AK PARTY members are wondering about our candidate. In fact, it's normal; in the subtitles of television, the vice president says: "We may have four or five candidates. " At the moment, the party spokesman says Mr. Kilicdaroglu is the nearest candidate. There are, like, six candidates. What the public is wondering is how many more will there be, and which one of them will win the race? Second, Mr. Altay says democracy will run.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0182par0777	I said democracy will win.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0181par0778	Let me make a correction: democracy does not run. Democracy is the private square where candidates compete. I salute you all, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0183par0781	Mr. President, I have a voice request, and I want word on 60.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0184par0782	Mr. Mehmet, please.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0183par0784	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, I have not just used any testimony against Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. The expression I use is ▪1946 elections. Gazi died in 1938. Now, in a recent parliamentary study, another group of vice presidents did not know the origin of the Republican People's Party, and now Mr. Altay, unfortunately, has confused 1946 and 1938. I offer it to the General Assembly's discretion. Gazi Mustafa Kemal is a common asset to all of us. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0185par0787	Mr. President, he accused me of ignorance, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0186par0788	Mr. Altay, let's not go on like this, but let's not have another tease.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0185par0789	I'll do my speech from here, then.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0186par0790	Please come in, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0185par0792	Now, Mr. President, I was not interested in the 1946 elections when I said, "I'm Mehmet Mushana, isn't Ataturk yours?" Mehmet Mush tells us that you are Mustafa Kemal's party, be his party. When you say something like that, are you something else? Can't you internalize Mustafa Kemal?
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0187par0793	I didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0188par0794	That's what I said, I said.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0189par0795	Mehmet Mush didn't say that, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0190par0796	Don't worry, we are well aware of the state of Turkey's republican history, of those who have paid the price for this republic. It's not about the 1946 elections. Mehmet Mustafa is the party of Kemal. When I said, "Whose party are you? Aren't you here with the republic founded by Mustafa Kemal??" I said that to tell you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0191par0799	I didn't say that!
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0192par0800	Engin Altay, I said that.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0193par0804	Members of parliament, the Constitutional Commission's talks have been completed with the Constitutional Commission's Report 552 rankings for Renewal of Parliamentary General Elections and Elections on Sunday (June 24th 2018). Under Article 95 of the Civil Code, the commission report will be placed in a clear vote. I'll appeal to the General Assembly's decision on the way to the open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help from members who can't get into the system, and I'd like to ask them to deliver the ballots to the presidency in the amount of time they've been given to vote. Lawmakers who give compasses must not leave the General Assembly. I remind you of that. In addition, I would like to ask that the ministers who will vote by proxy vote be voted by any minister, the color of the game, the name and the signature of the vote, again in the amount of time given for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Sir, I'll present the result to you. Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Chair Mr. Bazili Yıldırım and Milliye Movement Party Group Chairman Osmaniye MP Şaşli and 7 MPs' General Election of Parliament and the Court of Justice and Development Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party Party (HDP) I present the conclusion of the open vote of the Constitutional Commission Report on the Renewing of Parliamentary Elections and Elections on June 24, 2018: ▪ Number of votes used: 386 [[x]] [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] Sir, in this way, we've made a very important, very important decision -- that a period of time should be replaced by a new era. Good luck, good luck, for our people, for our country. Choice, you know, is very important; choice is the heart of democracy; the chest is the heart of democracy. Whatever the Ark says, and the continuation of democratic life is essential to the development of our country. We are on the side of the republic, we are on the side of democracy, and with the democratic republic, hopefully, we will continue forever.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0194par0827	Mr. President, we're the only ones listening.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0193par0828	One nation, one flag, one country, one state; a total Constitution, which we all participate in, the rule of the people of the people of the people of the city, I hope this will continue. Sometimes we hurt each other, sometimes we hurt each other, but just like we were here on July 15th, and we were all together. These are temporary events. The goal of all of us is for our country to evolve and move forward. I'm speaking here as the last prime minister of the parliamentary system. Maybe so, but democracy continues. History will make our great achievements in the 26th century. I believe in our political history that will go in gold letters. [[AK PARTY, CHP and MHP]] First of all, we became trustees of the trust, and on July 15th, we didn't leave here in the name of God when all the parties came together. We're done, take your time, we're done. Friends, the 26th term is a time when we will all be proud to write in gold letters in political history. The proof of that is certain, and when we examine it, everyone will see it. We've become one. It was born here on August 7th. That spirit must go on forever, and the spirit of the new one will go on. We are united in national interests. I hope we don't hurt each other in the election. If you'll excuse me, there's a beautiful poem from literature that I think you've all come to, and let's complete with it, I think it's a guiding poem: Enjoy the flowers, Don't hurt the honey, heart. Don't hurt the branch. It's up to us to talk, It's a beautiful ornament, though it may be. Say no or shut up. Don't hurt the tongue, heart. Don't fall behind on love, Be a doer, don't be a wreck, Don't give the lover a hard time, Don't hurt the rose, heart. Even with your head, it's high. Your eyes are wide open. Don't hurt the road, heart. And do not be inordinate when He has given you power, Don't be angry when you get it back. Don't break the burner, Don't hurt the swan, heart. Touching his endeavour, Don't get involved. Don't hurt your arm. Isn't it beautiful? (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) That's what our culture is supposed to do and we're going to act on it.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0195par0861	Mr. President, it's like a farewell speech, we'd like to see you again.
tbmm-2018-04-20sit01spe0193par0862	I'd like to add, friends, that I wanted to be as fair as I could. We're human, it's all our fault. I want to do good; I'm all-acceptable. May God not embarrass you. I wish you all the best in the new era. Some of our friends may not come, but the services are permanent. You'll all be told the good side of what you used to do. With health, with pleasure, I thank you, I bless our martyrs, I pray that our Turkey will go far beyond. Under the decision taken, it is Monday (April 23rd 2018) at 14 p.m. on Monday (April 23rd) to celebrate the 98th anniversary of the establishment of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to celebrate the National Sovereignty and Children's Day, to announce the meaning and significance of the day. I'm closing the meeting at 00. Thank you, health, bon appétit.
