tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Izmir MP Necip Tetovo, who wants to speak about the population in Turkey. Mr. Shield, a moment of your time. Our honored guests are among us. Today is the Day of Awareness of the Earth's Down Syndrome. They've just visited us with Mr. Yasar Tuzin, our Deputy Speaker. [[Applause]] Turkey's Down Syndrome Association has visited the Vocal+1 Autonomous Group Assembly. Eight of our younger brothers from Tokat, İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir are here and have delivered their demands. We celebrate them, we congratulate them, we see their faces all the time. We appreciate their humanistic approach, which never, ever thinks of evil, and it's not a difference; it's a awareness -- we wish everyone to approach it with the same sensitivity. Mr. Shield, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0002par0018	Reverend President, honored MPs, honored guests, I salute you all, and welcome you all. Sir, I received an invitation in İzmir. The invitation in İzmir is called "The Week of Respect for the Old People." I looked around with the key to the word "old" and looked at the TİK reports. According to Turkey's Statistical Agency, Turkey's population increased in 2017 by 80m,810,000 people and as many as 1 million people. When we look at this growing population, Turkey has 19 million, 33,000 people between the ages of 0 and 14 years; there are 16 million, 983 people between the ages of 15 and 24 years of age; so I want to say that there are 35 million people between 0 and 24 years of age in Turkey who are alive and alive. Well, when we look at the world, we see a different picture. Here, I want to compare this painting with Turkey. Turkey is in the 19th place in the world in terms of the total population, and we have nearly 7 million elderly people with them. When we look at the elderly population, we have more elderly populations than many European countries, including Denmark, Finland. The largest cities in Turkey are Sinop, Kastamonu, Artvin, Chankırı; the lowest cities are Şırnak, Hakakari and Van. So, this painting shows us that Turkey has a young population, but it also has a tendency to age, in other words, to increase the number of elderly populations and rates. This is due to fertility, mortality, and the recovery of life expectancy that has been changed based on development in our country. In this regard, the time has come for social policies on the standards of living, care, and well-being of the elderly in our country. Turkey has a young population for now, but if it's going to start counting down in 27 years like this, I'd like to stress that. Today, we need to take progressive measures to improve the welfare of the elderly population, to adjust the education policy. It will have significant effects on the health system, and with old age, there will be many diseases, and they need to be planned. Sir, what I'm trying to say is that Turkey has about 1,300,000 babies a year, 400-450,000 people die, 3,600 births a day and 1,200 deaths. Twenty-seven years later, our numbers... are expected to be 63 million in 2080, when Turkey had 55 million people between the ages of 15 and 64 in 2017. In particular, Turkey had an average life expectancy of 46 years in 1950; in 2000 it went up to 66 degrees; in 2015 it averaged 78 years in 2015; in Turkey we have an average of 80.7 years in women today; in men it has an average of 75.3 years in age. Is it possible to call a 65 - year - old person these days? Life is getting longer. The length of life in Turkey... we've been in power for fifteen years, and no one has been taken -- human life in Turkey has increased by 3.3 years. I say to my friends from here: "If you want to increase your life, give us another 15 years of power, and you will live another three and a half years. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) I'm saying this clearly because the numbers show it, and I'm not saying it. The average life expectancy in Afghanistan is still 42, and Japan is 81. Our lives are getting longer. We need to take precautions for the length of our lives. The young population will be reduced -- our elderly population -- will come back 27 years from now. What I'm trying to say is that in our power, a man's life span grows longer. The credit says it's yours, and I pay all my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you. The second non-responsored statement is owned by Mardin MP Erol Dora (Nevruz) who wants to speak about Nevruz. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0004par0029	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book promise on behalf of the esteemed MPs on the Day of Nevroz. I hereby salute the General Assembly. And I salute our precious guests with love and respect. Before I begin my speech, I congratulate and salute our co-Chairs Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş, Mr. Figen Yüksekdağ and all of our arrested MPs ▪Nevroz Day. Of course, in many parts of the world, it has been mentioned since the earliest times in the history of the peoples to live up to their common history and traditions, to celebrate various festivals, feasts, and so on. As a matter of fact, these common events and rituals strengthen the culture of peoples to live together and also form a common memory. Of course, this means a great deal in nations. Each nation or group of people gains character with its cultural wealth, bringing wealth to universal culture. The cultural riches that people groups have are also the spiritual food of their daily lives. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are celebrated on 21 March by different peoples of the world, especially the Middle East. This festival, considered a new day by Mesopotamia and the Middle East for hundreds of thousands of years, is the traditional new year, or the awakening of nature and spring, celebrated by many peoples such as Kurds, Fars, Turks, Turks, Albanians, Georgians. Honourable MPs are based on the history of the festival of Nevroz. According to legend, Demirci Gâve had rebelled against persecution, so since then, the Festival of Neroz has been celebrated not only as an important day for the Kurdish people but as an important day for all the people of the region, but as a freedom festival for hundreds of years. The Mesopotamian people continue to celebrate the Festival of Neuroses every year, despite pressures and obstructions. Especially since the 1990s, the festival of Nevroz was a scene of mass celebrations in Turkey. In many other cities, especially Diyarbakır, the festivals began to be celebrated with glorious festivals, but unfortunately, in some years the ban on the festivals of the Festival of Neuroses has also led to numerous deaths and sufferings. However, the fact that Nevroz is accepted as a festival and supported by the law is an unquestionable fact that it will be a gift to the people in the name of peace and brotherhood. This festival, which has already been celebrated in many of the country's cities, is missed and expected to be celebrated freely and in its rightful form without bans. Honourable lawmakers have also been accepted as a world holiday by the United Nations General Assembly in 2010, which is considered an official holiday in many countries in the Middle East. It was also considered the world's oldest spiritual tradition by the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture UNESCO. It must not be forgotten that such important days in common memories have a great power to unite the peoples. In many countries, the official holiday of March 21st and, therefore, the declaration of a holiday in our country today will be significant and also important in the interest of the peoples to consolidate the hope of living together. Dear MPs, unfortunately, again dozens of people have been taken into custody throughout the country before this year's celebrations, and in Afrin (Afrin) the statue of the symbol of the festival of Nevroz has been destroyed by ESSO. But if one side's pain has turned into another side's happiness, it is impossible to talk about brotherhood and peace there. The future of the country is wasted in the tents of mourning established, in darkness and uncertainty, both today and tomorrow, in societies that do not share in pain and joy. It is our duty and responsibility to put an end to this situation as soon as possible. With these thoughts, I wish this year's festival of neuroses would be a new beginning for our country, a new day, and a real peace, and my sincere wish is to congratulate all our peoples on the festival of neuroses. Again, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement is from Didem Engin, an Istanbul MP who asked to speak on March 21st for the Day of Awareness. Here you go, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0006par0045	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, today is March 21st, Down Syndrome Awareness Day. Our Down Syndrome individuals are with us today in Parliament. Can we welcome them all together with a round of applause? (Applause) Welcome, glad you're here. You're with us. Thank God you're here. We're about to hear the stories of our Down-sympathetic individuals at the Health, Family, Work and Social Affairs Commission, their struggles, their determination, their thoughts about the future, their dreams. When I first decided to work on Down syndrome, I visited them last August, demanding an interview from the Down Syndrome Society. It's a foundation founded by families with Down syndrome kids who do great work. I listened to their thoughts about their difficulties, their children's future. Then, after about six months of work, I eventually submitted a comprehensive research motion to the Speakership in February. I've requested that a commission be set up in Parliament on Down syndrome and that the solution proposals be developed on a common platform where all parties will hold hands. This motion is for the council not to be left on dusty shelves or rejected. I started a signing campaign today -- the label that you see on my shirt -- with the label "Construction of MeclistedDown Syndrome" on the organ. More than 70,000 of our citizens signed this petition, and each passing minute, every second, the number of signatures is increasing. I humbly thank all our sensitive citizens who have signed and shared the announcement in their social media accounts for their sensitivity and support. I sincerely thank all mothers and fathers who make videos and share the pictures of their children with their good wishes and prayers. I hope that next week, with our joint motion for this commission, we can form a unanimous vote in the House. I'd like to point out that all political parties have very specific, positive answers. You know, Down syndrome is not a disease, it's a chromosome difference. About 70,000 Down syndrome individuals and their families in our country expect us to work on a lot of things. Every year, the end of the report sufferings over and over and over again, and the planning of services in this direction, by staying in this direction, are expected to provide the report automatically and indefinitely after it has been diagnosed, to provide access to early education and physical therapy, to allow children to begin immediately after the birth, to receive rehabilitation support, to provide as much time as they need to be able to begin, to prepare the Down syndrome map across Turkey, and to participate in the development of information on the issue, and to provide a large number of people who are qualified to participate in this lineup, by staying in training, to provide effective integration training, to increase the capacity of nursing home and rehabilitation centers, to provide children's rehabilitation, to be as much as needed, to provide rehabilitation support, to support for working parents, to be as quickly as needed, to be aware of the development of our judiciary, and to participate in the development of our community. If the research commission is established, we can all get their opinions together by inviting experts, NGO representatives, Down-sensored individuals and their families to the House, and as a result, we will write a report on the solution of these problems by holding hands with the ruling and opposition lawmakers. Of course, after the report is prepared, our task will be to follow the application to bring the proposals in this report to life. We should be proud of our Down syndrome individuals, who are very successful in art, in sports, in business, in every aspect of our social life. We should be proud of their determination, courage, struggles, and accomplishments, trusting and believing them. Not just our Down syndrome individuals, but our autism individuals, like our muscle-sick individuals, we need to set up separate work commissions in all the other disabled areas, and we need to hear them and work out. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0007par0054	Thank you, Mr. Engin. We agree with the same wishes. Congressmans, we hope that for the brotherhood of our country, our region, and many parts of the world, not a day to lose for national unity and unity, but for the good fortune of Nevruz's nation, our region, and the future of the world, which we have no patience for. It is our common desire that Nevruz fire spreads from Anatolia to our region to all the Jihan from our region and envelops and embraces humanity. Nevruz, the holiday of everyone who breathes the air of this beautiful land and shares its ideals and its common future, will be the most meaningful answer to those who want to break it. Nevruz, the feast of unity and love, not of separation, not of fighting, but of love, will bring good times. On this occasion, I wish that Turkey, our nation, our hearts and geography would bring peace, peace, and happiness. Congressmans, we received a bitter report yesterday. The nationalist Movement Party was the news of the death of Mr Ahmet Deniz Company head of the 23rd term Ankara MP. It's 11 o'clock tomorrow. We've been informed there'll be a funeral in the House at 00. On this occasion, we ask for God's mercy. And our condolences to the nationalist movement community and to all its loved ones. It's Down Syndrome Day again. He was just here, brothers. Down syndrome is not a disease, it's a genetic difference. The world is beautiful with differences. Real friends don't count chromosomes. They call them chromosomes. Actually, Down syndrome is not a flaw, it's a plus 1 surplus, and we need to know that. Children with Down syndrome have extremely high human values. They're positive, they don't know lies, they don't know rhymes, their hearts are full of love, and their love is unrequited. Again, from here, I assume, with the understanding of all our political parties, tomorrow, hopefully, a joint parliamentary inquiry will be submitted. I also want to thank all of our political party groups for their sensitivity and sensitivity. Again, dear MPs, the legendary name of our folk music, the anniversary of the death of the great master Veysel. Forty-five years after his death, we didn't forget him. If my eyes could see that he was as attached to the earth as he was to the earth, I would not recognize the land, but I would succeed as you did. Here I particularly want to share with you a few verses of Veysel the Lover. He's taught us a lot, he's seen it in his heart: You're gold. I'm brass. You're silver. I'm hair. You're the pen. I'm the tip. You're a passenger. I'm a bum. Dear MPs, dear lawmakers, we really have important faces, important names, and when the day comes, we can't get past them. They give us very important advice, they have a history. On this occasion, on this anniversary of death, I remember Veysel the lover once again with mercy and gratitude. Now, to the lawmakers who have entered the system... today, of course, is an important day; there's Down syndrome, there's Veysel in love, there's neurosis. If you'd like, let's promise 20 people today. [[AK PARTY and CHP A round of applause]] Yes, I'll give my word to the MPs who entered the system for a minute according to 60. Here, Mr. Gürer, we'll start with you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0008par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. In Niğde and Nevşehir, thousands of tons of potatoes wait in warehouses. Danger bells ring for potato makers. Potato farmers are performances. Besides, the farmer has no money, so the tradesman is a victim. Farmers and tradesmen must be relegated. In addition, the government should increase the incentive for the outside sale of potato farmers, which should be bought by the potato farmer and consumed quickly by public institutions and municipalities and similar organisations. Otherwise, the potato farmer will have no chance of planting next year. Potatoes are an important source of income in the region. Everywhere we go in this sense, the problem appears to be largely clear and clear. I repeat the government's call to make arrangements for the potato farmer, or farming will gradually become a problem in the region, and there will be no planting. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0009par0086	Mr. Tarhan instead of Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0010par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Istliklal anthem, which is the most meaningful among the anthems of the world's states, which has been fed by Turkish nation's heroics and triumphs, has unfortunately become a subject of controversy in recent days. The organization organised by the Kopeleli Metropolitan Municipality has shown that there has been no silence, and that there has been an attempt to impose on citizens in a non-national state of consciousness, not to mention it with a tape and a tape. I remind those who talk about being national and domestic about everything, that our national anthem, which has been sung the same way for eighty-eight years, is not a song or song, and I invite AKP Koseli MPs to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0011par0091	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0012par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. The precious diplomat we lost today, the Sea Squadronmaster, God's mercy, and my condolences to his relatives. Today is March 21st, spring's harbinger, Nevruz, and I wish this cycle to bring peace and happiness to our country and all its communities. But we can't look forward to our future, we're surrounded by fraud gangs. After the Farm Bank, which has defrauded thousands of people of millions of dollars in promise of high profit, a news of a profit came from an application called Anatolian Farm. It has been learned that an Anatolian Farm (,) found within the Kayseri-based firm has collected 200 million liras a year from 44,000 members. The payments to the members were stopped when the investigation into the company was launched. I'm asking the relevant ministry, how many companies are there that raise money from the public? How are these allowed, and who is behind them?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0013par0097	Mr. Eseyan? No. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0014par0100	Thank you. Not a day goes by when our young people at Uludağ University will be faced with the reactionary, fascist, oppressive, tyrant practices of Chancellor Ulcay. Each of them organises panels to non-scientific people, non-scientific people, who use their own interests to provide conferences at the university, each according to the recognition of our laws and the Supreme Court, where men who remain at Emir Sultan KYK are threatened to participate in an event called the "Abdulhamite 100 Years" as if it weren't enough. Their name, last name, phone numbers, and tagged, are stated to be required to take individual names and participate in the event, otherwise they will be in trouble. I'm calling from here: if you want to do politics, quit, become AKP mayor or be smart.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0013par0103	Instead of Mr. Benli, Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0015par0105	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is Down Syndrome Day. It's three months. And tomorrow night, we'll realize it's Regaip Night. Here we are again, the beginning of spring. Nevruz is also a day in which night and day are equal, and it is the day in which the International Battle of Racism is fought. Racism, sectarianism, prudence is the head of acts that harm humanity. The wisdom of our creation in the form of nations and tribes is to meet and compete in beauty. Oppression is about piety, about wearing the values of humanity, not the seed, the sop, the tribe and the family. None of us have chosen family, race, race and color ourselves. Trying to overcome one another in a matter where there is no choice is not valid in any way to accept purity gains as superior and distinguished. We should not be clouding our humanity and our human values, which are our great heritage, the difference between race and language. We're like men, like us. The poor mind is wise. How beautifully the verses of the lover Veysel, who was just told by the Speaker of Parliament, speak this truth.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0016par0109	Thank you. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0017par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm afraid thousands have been exposed in the government's arrangement for subcontractors. You said 1,200,000 people will be cast. But in public, those who remain out of the scope of the OSCE agreement remain subcontractors. All subcontractors must be recruited. The subcontractor must be terminated in the public and in the OSCE. Aren't thousands of subcontractors looking for you? Why can't you hear their voices? Why are you victimizing the workers? We'll say it one more time. For all subcontractors. For all subcontractors.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0016par0114	Thank you. Mr. Boyraz.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0018par0117	Thank you. Again spring came from the nightingale's voice, Did you call out to Seda and call out? Covered with tulips and hyacinths, Have you become a bride and adorned yourself? As the poet puts it, I call upon God to celebrate the feast of Nevruz, the union of our nation, and to unite our brotherhood. I have embraced many other things as friends/friends/ my faithful lover is the land of darkness. See what happens to me in the afternoon, in the evening/see what happens to the head. Despite all the negativity, adversity, he has not given up hope, he has spoken for many years with a reed of sorrow, joy, longing, at the age of seven, and from every so - called language he spoke, from generation to generation, from heart, from heart to heart, in the heart of Anatolian man. Once again, with mercy and gratitude, may his place be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0019par0126	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0020par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish to be rid of our troubles and separation politics with the spirit of spring, to have our country united, united, friendly, and peaceful, celebrating the Day of Nevruz. Dear lawmakers, today is also March 21st, Down Syndrome Awareness Day. We've made a press statement today under the leadership of Mr. Didem Engin, our Istanbul MP with our Down Syndrome and executives from different provinces to Parliament. In order to improve employment opportunities, provide social life and education needs, and facilitate their lives as equal, independent individuals, they have submitted to us the request to establish the Down syndrome Commission -- the Assembly -- in order to facilitate their lives. As lawmakers in parliament, we, in particular, have promised that the demands and needs of all disabled individuals, including Down's syndrome, will be met, and I would like to submit that information before you again.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0021par0131	Mr. Dedeoğlu instead of Mr. Ünal..
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0022par0133	From Central Asia to the Balkans, Nevruz speaks of his will to claim his past and to build his future together. It is our only wish that there be a geography that we have long fought against the resurrection of nature, a brotherhood and peace of mind. In a time when the geography we live in is a little bit tighter every night, we have a new spring as part of Operation Olive Mountain on the morning of March 18th. The whole world has seen us apply concepts like democracy, rights, freedom, tolerance. As a nation that says, "We love the Creator." As a nation that says, we will not only be in our geography, but we will be with the oppressed and the victims all over the world, and we will light the fire of Nevruz from Anatolia. Happy Nazi day, the symbol of brotherhood, friendship. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0023par0138	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0024par0140	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to say happy new day, happy new day, celebrated by millions of people in Central Asia, Front Asia and the Balkans. In the first year of our defeat, I cherish my beloved Typhoon Talipoglu. I cherish Veysel the lover, the great poet who sees with his eyes and heart. By speaking the truth, we honor the patriotic Sea Company head, whose place we call paradise. Mr. President, it's Down Syndrome Awareness Day. I'd like to address lawmakers from the ruling party: a law came out on May 7, 2005, a law that allowed all disabled people to benefit equally from state institutions. It was brought in for seven years, and in 2012 all state institutions would address the disabled. Three years were postponed in 2012, three more in 2015. I'm saying it's rude. I'm just saying it's not enough to give disabled people, to look at them with just a little bit of money, to just look at them as voters, just to show them a little bit of compassion. What I'm saying is that the disabled need to be among us, education, more than compassion.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0025par0146	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0026par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. AKP's animal policy is now completely bankrupt. The AKP, unable to lower its meat prices, sees the solution in imports rather than supporting the manufacturer. In the past seven years, the AKP has given more than $6 billion in foreign currency to the import of living animals and meat, and for some reason, it does not give half of it to the farmer. Feed prices, the most important cost in livestock, have increased far above inflation. I wonder why. Because the dollar's going up. Turkey, once a productive agricultural country, is a net importer of wheat, barley and corn with raw materials, and in other words, 45 per cent of the oath is obtained by imported raw materials. Unfortunately, the price of food is now equal to the price of milk. That's no way to animalize. In short, cows are imported, bait imported, straw imported, AKP native and national.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0025par0150	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0027par0152	Thank you, Mr. President. My first question is to the Minister of Health. At first, I would like to point out that when a patient goes to the Butler State Hospital and the Butler Dental Hospital for an appointment and demands an appointment, unfortunately, the deadline is three and a half, four months later. I'm speaking to the doctor or officer who made that appointment here, and I'm particularly stressing that when you go to a hospital, they'll leave you alone with your aching tooth three months later. On the other hand, last week when we visited the eastern provinces to prevent sugar factories from being closed, we saw Van Ercish State Hospital. I especially want to share the image of this state hospital where 174,000 people live. From here, I'm speaking to the Van MPs, to the governor of Van, and to the governor of Erciş. Do they go to this public hospital when they are sick? I'm asking them this question in particular, and I'm inviting all lawmakers on duty. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0028par0156	Mr. Wellercuoğlu instead of Mr. Basmacı...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0029par0158	Thank you, Mr. President. As I begin with my words, I celebrate the Turkish world and the people's holiday of Nevrosis. Minister, Turkey has the highest fuel price in the world. For this reason, it is possible for those in the air and sea transport operation to be supplied with non-OTV fuel. Yet, another competition in transportation also exists in land transport. The largest cost of our taxi driver, van driver, and trucker is undoubtedly fuel, especially part of urban transportation. So do you have a study that allows our taxi driver and trucker to provide fuel without OTV, just like in shipping and air transport? Such a study will make a large number of people happy, cheapen transportation and transportation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0030par0162	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0031par0164	Mr. President, the number of our college graduates is increasing rapidly, while the unemployment rate is increasing in the same parallel. Millions of college graduates are being dragged into a deep trauma because of the absence of appointments, and many of our young people are being driven to suicide. As of late October 2017, the promise of appointment for teachers and medics was not fulfilled. In addition, thousands of our people, who have been detained under the pretext of a security investigation, are looking forward to the day when they begin their mission. Women, young people, disabled public institutions do not have adequate employment. Although promises were made by the end of 2017, their consciences have been hurt by the fact that no appointments have been made so far. I urge the ministers to be more sensitive about this matter, with my belief that the appointment must be carried out immediately, and that the pending college graduates should be reinstated, even though they deserve it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0032par0167	Mr. Pineak instead of Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0033par0169	Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report calling on the government of Turkey to end the State of Emergency. It has been stressed that the State of Emergency has caused human rights violations, arbitrary detention, torture and abuse, destroying testimony and rights of assembly. Where the government will heed these warnings, the government has issued a statement against known rhetoric. ▪ The number of violations does not occur in our country. Those who cannot say, tried once again to eliminate any criticism, warning, and terror. An international agency representative, even Zayd El Husseini, has been branded with terror. I urge the government to act responsibly at the point of its statements, taking into account both national and international warnings and criticism. I celebrate the Nevruz of all our people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0034par0173	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0035par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to Mr. Prime Minister: While there were hundreds of thousands of unregistered teachers, health workers, one of every four young people who were out of work on the street, Gonca Hatinoglu, the daughter of the Chief Prosecutor's daughter, was appointed to the judge of the Supreme Court in less than 24 hours. Gonca Hatinoglu has previously been an expert in the presidency, and his wife is a manager of a company known for her proximity to the AKP. That's what we call the torpedo. We all know that AKP mayors work like ISKUR. A young person looking for a job is trying to find an acquaintance from the AKP before filling out a CV. How are you going to look at the faces of unregistered teachers, unemployed teenagers, minimum wage workers, pensioners under the minimum wage, members of the government? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0036par0179	Mr. White Star...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0037par0181	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the feast of Sultan Nevruz, first and foremost the feast of Sultan Nevruz. It is also the birthday of Imam Ali. Of course, it's a day when there's a lot of beauty that I can't count because I don't have time for. Of course, today is also the 45th anniversary of our great poet, Veysel. The more real life is, the more real it is to live in languages and hearts after death. It's the work of a man that lives after his death, and the song of a lover that lives on in tongues. The great poet Veysel described the importance of knowledge in his words, as he described all the beauty of nature and of man, with a sense of the poet. He sang about how ignorance has led nations into darkness over the ages. In love, Veysel Şatıroğlu is a strong string of the reed burned in the bosom of Anatolia, the most beautiful word of our language, the most powerful voice of our people's feelings and thoughts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I want torpedoes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0038par0186	Let's pull some strings for Sivas. Please, Mr. Ali, finish up.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0037par0188	He is the one who overflows from his bed, Red. He is the tulip of Mount Besrek, the hyacinth, and its ornament. He is the faithful lover of the land. It's love, it's faith, it's friendship, it's rebellion. It's his heart's eye, and when we look at it in its eyes, we can make the world more alive when we walk in its footsteps. Then we may not hear the silence of the willow that cannot be released in the morning wind, the pain of its blind strike, the fire of the heart of love that yearns for light, the cycle of life and death, the comradeship of the earth and man, and the senselessness of the wars that increase death by the cold of the sun. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0038par0190	Thank you. Finally, Mr. Tamer, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0039par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. We say the end of March is especially important to us, which is where I celebrate the Turkish world's Day of Nevruz. Again, we see it as the beginning of three months, celebrating three months of the entire Islamic world. Also, what matters to me is the anniversary of the 25th of March of Muhsin Yazıoğlu's death. In the death of this son of Alpine, which is torn from the bosom of this Anatolian, we remember with mercy and gratitude. Again, also, in love with Veysel Song. It's been said that I remember Veysel the poet and Veysel the poet on the 45th anniversary of his death. And it's Down Syndrome Awareness Day. In fact, this means that our children are more than 46 chromosomes; in humans there are 46 chromosomes; in 23 men and 23 women, the excess of 21st chromosomes. They're very sympathetic, honest, emotional, they never lie. So I'm saying this is an important day for our children. Thank you, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0040par0199	Thank you. I give you my word to the members of the group who entered the system for two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0041par0203	Thank you, Mr. President. In my speech yesterday, the Turkish military, the Turkish army, was greeted with joy in Afrin. Civilians poured sugar and rice to welcome both members of the Free Syrian Army and Turkish soldiers. Today, again, in the morning hours, we learned from a division of the Turkish Armed Forces that 18 terrorists were handed over to the Turkish Armed Forces in the nine villages of Afrin. It shows that the terrorist struggle is being cruel to the people, and the people of Afrin see the Turkish army as a savior, and even there, Aunt Angel Salih, we've waited a long time for you. Where were you? He shared his joy by embracing our soldier. The Turkish army has always been there for the oppressed in the face of the tyrant; it represents peace and security wherever the Turkish flag blows. Mr. President, we were shocked this morning by the news of the death of our beloved diplomat, the esteemed bureaucrat Ahmet Deniz Company head, who was raised by Turkish Foreign Affairs, our 23rd-century Ankara MP. He's been in treatment for a while. We bless Mr. Squadronmaster, who gave his life to the Turkish world. My condolences to our community and all its loved ones, especially her grieving family. What we realize today is that Nevruz is a spring holiday that we all celebrate with enthusiasm. Thankfully, the joy and peace of reaching another spring warms the hearts. Happy Eid of Nevruz. The resurrection of the Festival of Nevruz is the eternal pulse of our nation from Central Asia to the Balkans. The festival of Nevruz-Ergenekon, which has existed from the oldest history of the Turks to today, is essentially a Turkish holiday with all its elements, customs and customs. This festival, celebrated with great festivals throughout the Turkish world, is an element that strengthens the national unity in Turkish communities, strengthens solidarity, strengthens unity and unity. Nevruz's enthusiasm is also found in Turkish creation myths.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0042par0209	Let's wrap it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0041par0211	The spring holiday Nevruz represents the new life that comes to nature with the arrival of spring, the new life that walks to the soil and plants, and is also part of the Ergenekon saga. The Turkish nation, led by Ergenekon, led by the grizzly at a moment when we were surrounded by all sides, is again destroying and dismantling the evil alliance that surrounds us, the terror vessels, and leading the Turkish nationalism at the beginning of the difficult days. I'm thankful for everyone involved in this struggle. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0043par0215	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0041par0216	Today is also March 21st, World Down Syndrome Awareness Day. Let's not forget that Down syndrome is not a disease, it's a awareness. I send our regards and love to all our brothers and sisters with Down syndrome and their families. We have a group proposal on the matter, and I hope next week that a commission will be set up by a joint decision from all parties. March 21st is also the day that we lost our precious poet, Veysel the lover, who sat in the heart of the people of Asia Minor with his songs and poems. In the forty-five years of his death, I honor and cherish him, and I wish to end my words with those of his. The Muhabbetin is a friendly,/Autur Veysel is a merry play,/ the Turkish name is my inheritance from my father,/ what else is his name? / Country is our land, hand is ours,/ make sure that every working arm is ours,/ Moon star flag is ours,/ Tell Veysel by eating, praising. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0044par0219	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0045par0222	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the anniversary of Veysel's death in love. Let friends remember me. Once again, we honor the memory of the lover, Veysel, whom we remember and remember. Yes, Down Syndrome Awareness Day is also today, and our friends have visited the Assembly. All our friends with Down syndrome, all the obstacles in front of all our citizens, and let's lift it up, lead the lift, bring in that joint motion next week, and make their way clear. Today, I will not be provoked, but it is the festival of Neuroses, and it really is a holiday that everyone should celebrate together with enthusiasm. Today is a festival celebrated in Mesopotamia, in the Caucasus, in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the Front Asia, in which the Kurdish people are celebrating (Nevroz), the Azerbaijans' (Novruz), the Persians' (Noruz), the Turks' (Nevruzu), commemorated with different myths and stories, but each people's hope, good, peace. Actually, really, it's supposed to be a holiday on March 21st. We've made suggestions about it many times, and we've offered them the law. Because especially, when we look at the celebrations, on a day that coincides with the week, people participate and do it with enthusiasm, but normally, as on May 1st, today needs to be a holiday, as well as another day, which gives good news of spring, and it is also possible, especially for Kurds, to celebrate with the enthusiasm and the joy and freedom of the day together.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0046par0227	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0045par0229	I'm not going to get too involved in the blockages today, actually, to keep us in the dark, but I'm afraid there's been blockages this year, as every year has been. On the day alone, on March 21st, all applications to the end of the week were rejected. Other than that, 78 others were taken into custody, especially yesterday, before the celebrations, including the people on our committee. In the 1990s, the word "live" was also banned in 2018. In fact, there's no way to light a fire even if it's sembolic. We had to step in on the words of the governor of Ankara. I'd really like to ask you, Mr. Governor, if you don't have a match. Without fire, there is no Nevroz. Everyone knows that. It's not like those suits at the state parades, but I really think it's possible that one day we'll be able to celebrate together in the House with the aunts. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0046par0232	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0045par0233	Again, happy Thanksgiving.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0046par0234	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0047par0237	Thank you, Mr. President. We ask God's mercy to our MP Ahmet Sea Company, and we offer our condolences to his relatives. The Festival of Nevruz is being celebrated all over Turkey, and like all of us, and this holiday has just been expressed, it really needs to be a holiday for all of us to celebrate it, and we need to be able to celebrate it, in the spirit of brotherhood, in the spirit of all our people, in the spirit of our hearts, in order to celebrate it. The 45th year of the death of Veysel the lover. He is the daughter of the son of Al-Adem (Adem) and the one who said, "Is there a martyr or a veteran or a mistake?" and said, "Where is there?" and said, "The beautiful people of our beautiful country, whom he sees in his heart, have given up their brotherly words to the beautiful people of our beautiful country. And while we're reminiscing about it one more time today, I'd like to say once again that we need to live not only in words but also in hearts. Where I see the beautiful faces of our brothers with Down syndrome, I see how human they look and how loving they are, and once again I thank them for the colors they bring into this life. It is good that their faces and their beautiful hearts color our world, and they invite us to peace and love and goodness. I'm grateful to their brains who are smarter than us, to their hearts that are more beautiful than we are. I want to say once again that we will make a great contribution to everything that we can do for them, all political parties together, and that we will do it with love. Mr. President, we've had to take a break from discussing the 67th Amendment yesterday. Article 67 is a certificate of admission to an insured job for young people between 18 and 25 years of age.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0048par0244	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0047par0245	Thank you, Mr. President. The day he is launched, he predicts that if he is reported to the Social Security Agency, it will be reported prior to the start of the insurance policy. So the law says: "Aggressors, you can employ 18-25-year-olds without insurance." If there's a call or an inspection, he just started working today, and we were doing our notification. You say, and you tear it up. He shouldn't do such injustice to the citizen of the state, to the working man, not to take part in this kind of negotiation. Our consciences should be aching. Our children are already unemployed, and according to TÜİKbook, one of our five young people is looking for a job. None of our children have the power to negotiate with the employer, the ability to resist insurance. They seek refuge with their parents, and they need their allowance. You shouldn't cause our children to work like slaves for food, without security. The worst part is, after 25 years of age, you can barely get a job for food. What employer hires a 26-year-old when they can afford to hire a teenager between 18 and 25 years of age without insurance, without security, for three cents?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0049par0250	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0047par0251	Thank you. Again, with this arrangement, you make our children work as slaves between the lips of an employer who lacks all rights. Where is the human, honorable life? Where is the hope of the bright future of our children, whom we have worked so hard to raise? Don't darken the spring of our children. Don't raise your hand with your child, safely... with your instructions. The plague is on you, don't take it. Look in the eyes of Veysel, and take care of our children.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0049par0253	Thank you. By the way, we welcome our beautiful brothers from Nevşehir, with Down syndrome again. [[Applause]] Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0050par0262	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I welcome back our brothers from Nevşehir, from Down syndrome, to all our guests today. I want to start with Operation Afrin in particular, and I want to continue by talking about Afrin's success. To those who were troubled by Afrin's success, especially those who were concerned about looting there, who were concerned about who was going to settle in Afrin. To those who were concerned about the Turkish flag's fluctuation, our Mehmetçik put out a message, the Turkish Armed Forces published it. Turkish Armed Forces released new images from the Afrin district centre, which was cleared of terrorists as part of Operation Olive Dalı yesterday. The footage from Afrin. The security measures, inspections taken by Turkish soldiers, appear very clear here in the images given by the message. On the 58th day of Operation Olive Dalı, which began on January 20th, Afrin was entered and successfully established the peace and security of the Turkish Armed Forces, which carried out the operation with the OSO. When we look at these last shared images, especially in this region, how the public, the face of our people there, the face of our people, laughed with smiles, and why so far the operation was delayed, thank God, the Turkish army rescued us from persecution. The Turkish army arrived, and the persecution began to be read in the mosque. Why didn't you come five years ago? Why did we wait for you, another lady brother? They have killed my husband. Let those who do not want to see the necessity, the legitimacy of Operation Olive branch, look at the joyful cries of the people of the region. Let everyone see and accept that the PKK is a terrorist organization of the YPG. It's a rogue, ruthless terrorist organization that wants to use civilian citizens as a shield, so they don't have to let civilians escape, so they dig holes in them, and they have no sacred ones, and we declare it once again from here. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Nevruz and Spring Day, as of March 21st. The week we're in, it's Earth Forestry Day, Earth Water Day, Earth Meteorology Day, spring beginnings, each heralding spring. We've been celebrating for centuries...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0051par0267	Please, complete.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0050par0268	...we all share a common value, a common holiday for all of us. We are strong together in Turkey, regardless of language, religion, religion, faith, ethnicity and political opinion. I congratulate all our citizens, all our brothers and sisters in the hope that our unity and brotherhood will unite. We just told our guests that today is March 21st, World Down Syndrome Day. Yeah, there's no shortages, there's extras, more inside, warmer, friendlier, more people. I'm celebrating World Down Syndrome Day with the warm smile of our brothers with Down Syndrome. We send greetings to all our Down syndromed children, brothers and families from here. There's also a death here, Sea Chief. We served together in Parliament in the 23rd term. I offer my condolences to the National Movement Party and its relatives, its loved ones, God bless them. Again, we honor and cherish him in the 45th year of the death of the late lover Veysel, one of the late representatives of the lover's tradition. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0052par0273	Thank you. We're going on the agenda.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0053par0275	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement on my territory based on 60. Because we've been on the road for days. So, if you'll excuse me -- it's important -- I have a brief request.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0052par0276	I've been a little too tolerant today.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0053par0277	But we've been on the road all the time for about two weeks. So...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0052par0278	Well, according to 60, let's give you our last word. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0053par0281	Thank you, Mr. President. Fifty-one landlords, who gave their homes to TİKİ (TİKİ) for urban transformation in my district of Afyonkarahisar Province and agreed to buy housing for $113,000 in return and signed a contract like this in 2012, were unfortunately injured today when they were asked to deliver between $220 and $30,000. Why is a mortgage signed at $113,000 in the beginning, and why is a return like $220-230,000? There has been a similar problem in Dinar. When will the Dinar's TOKI ordeal end, and when will the victim be relieved?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0052par0283	Thank you. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 21/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On March 20, 2018, Van MP Mr. Lezgin Botan and his friends proposed that talks be held in Turkey, given in front of other proposals for parliamentary research proposals given to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on Wednesday (21/3/2018) in order to celebrate the past-demanding policies of the past and the festival air of the Festival of Nevruz. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak as the owner of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0054par0299	Mr. President, I'd like to begin by celebrating the Day of Nevruz, where all of our arrested MPs, journalists and all the prisoners held hostage by politicalized judiciary, including Figen Yüksekdağ and Denizlahattin Demirtaş, who were in prison. In Mesopotamia, in the Caucasus, in the East Mediterranean, and in the Front Asia, I congratulate the Kurdish people, the Azerbaijans, the Farsians, the Farsians, the Turks, the Nevruz, the festival that celebrates peace, hope, and good. Dear friends, this day is particularly ethanologically a symbol of freedom, resistance, the war of good against evil for the Kurdish people. The famous book of Tolstoy asks, "What does one live on?" The answer is that one lives on good, one lives on good. There are stories in every society where good plays evil to evil, and that's how one lives on. The legend of the Demirci Gâve, which, as soon as he entered Afrin, was that the people fought a cruel king called Dahhak, and the people managed to kidnap the children whom Dahhak had killed every day to feed their snakes. But one day, with these children, he walks into the palace and kills the cruel king. And on that day in the nearby hills, he makes fires and celebrates freedom with the people. In this story, the Kurdish people find their suffering as a nation without a state, and live again, each year they hope for freedom and peace. These stories are told all over the world. There are many who do not want to hear the battle of good and evil, but there is no use fighting such festivals and stories, my friends. Sadly, the Kurdish people are an embarrassment to Turkey that, in fact, they have to fight a war every year to celebrate Nevroz. There are literally dozens of people being taken into custody. Last year, especially in Diyarbakır, I want to pay my respects to my beloved Kemal Kurkut, a student of the Music Department of Fine Arts at Inönu University, who lost her life by police fire at the point of search, in front of everyone in Diyarbakır. The policeman who shot Kemal is still on duty, and the family is still awaiting justice. Likewise, no active investigation and prosecution has been carried out for any number of people -- either in '92 or in 2008 or in other years -- that we have lost in neuroses. Yes, today we called it the festival of the Caspian coasts, the Caucasus, the Eastern Mediterranean, and the Kurds, because, yes, it also means freedom and resistance. Now, we wish that by the arrival of spring, the 21st Day of Nevruz, which symbolizes the blessing of nature and life, should not be allowed to celebrate for just one day. Let Nevruz Day be a holiday in its own right, so that we have a law proposal for this, so that these offers are accepted, that they are considered an official holiday after they've been accepted in the House. But other than that, it will only be March 21st. Or, as the governor of Ankara did, you will not light a fire. Let there be no attempts to prevent a holiday without fire. Happy is the feast of all of us, aunt of all of us, to all of us. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0055par0309	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0056par0313	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, at the beginning of my words, our dear diplomat, statesman, former Vice President of the 23rd Term Ankara MP, Allah's mercy, his painful family, his loved ones, and our community. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute your high council. Again, I sincerely wish to congratulate you and your beloved Turkish nation, who are watching us at the beginning of the screens, on the feast of Nevruz. The name of brotherhood and peace -- one of the blessed torches of ancient Turkish culture -- is celebrated with enthusiasm this year, as it has been for thousands of years in Turkish-Islamic geography. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are the beginning of cleansing, the beginning of waking up to a new day. The fire that represents nevruz is also a cleansing. Sitting at the beginning of January, chatting is a symbol of unity, of unity. Unfortunately, from time to time, some have tried to make unity a figure of dissolution, a symbol of brotherhood, a symbol of terror propaganda by PKK and other terrorist organizations. To those who wish to use this good day to their evil ends, neither the mighty Turkish nation nor our state has given us the opportunity to do so. No one will ever accept the opportunity of those who want to exploit the Nevru from now on, as they did in the past. Thankfully, those days are long gone, and the trials have lost their focus as they always have. The national consciousness has triumphed, and today, as yesterday, the Turkish nation's ancient holiday is celebrated with pride and dignity by its own Turkish nation; tomorrow it will be celebrated and moved to tomorrow. Nevruz is too Turkish to be appetized by the fairy tale of treacherous hands. On this occasion, I would like to repeat the words of our President-General, State Bahçeli, about the nevruz: "Nevruz is Turkish, Turan is excited, is a target." Turkey's guarantee of brotherhood and solidarity. On this beautiful day, under this blessed roof, I once again celebrate the feast of Nevruz of the beloved Turkish nation, your grand delegation, and the holy nation that watches over us on their screens, with respect and conversation.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0057par0320	Thank you. İstanbul MP Mustafa Sezgin Tanrıkulu will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Godkulu.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0058par0324	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I too celebrate the feast of Nevruz, which is celebrated in almost every culture from east to west and almost all the northern hemisphere as the beginning of spring, celebrating the feast of Nevruz, the feast of all our citizens, celebrating the feast of Nevruz, the feast of all the peoples. Yes, it is the new day, the beginning of spring. Each culture celebrates according to its own legend. In Turkey, Turks, Kurds, Turks, Azerbaijans, all the peoples of this geography celebrate this festival as a day of peace in Mesopotamia, as a day of rebirth, as a day of freedom, and this festival, which has been celebrated in this geography for a thousand years, will continue to be celebrated. But in our own history, there are some very severe traumas left on us by this geography, and there are major deaths that haven't been traced back to us recently. In this present - day environment, we see that this holiday has been traumatically banned, restricted, restricted. But together, we could have turned this holiday into a brotherhood, unity, a day of peace, but unfortunately, it wasn't possible. In my opinion, this day should be a holiday in all Turkey on March 21st; it should be a holiday; there was an offer of law for this purpose; it was discussed here on February 16, 2016; we said it would be a holiday for all peoples to celebrate according to their culture. Unfortunately, the majority of the Justice and Development Party did not want it to be celebrated as a holiday, and it did not become legal. There has been another tragedy today, especially earlier, that upsets us deeply. Yes, every people, every culture's history, is called another myth, but in Kurds, it's been called the leader of the freedom struggle of their people against Emperor Dahhak. It's been described since we were children, and it's been described everywhere. During the night of March 20, 21 Marta, fires are lit in the mountains and celebrated as the torch of freedom. What happened? Just these days, a day or two ago, in Afrin, the statue of this Geography, the legend and culture of the Kurds in Afrin Square, was first shot by the jihadist Free Syrian Army, then burned down and then prostrated. History will show what effect these images have on the Kurds, but no one will forgive those who protect and protect them. Once again, I say I celebrate the Day of Nevruz, of all our citizens, of the people, of the people, of the Nevruz, the day of peace and justice, and the day of conversation, and the day of nevroz.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0059par0329	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the final word belongs to Ardahan MP Orhan Atalay (Alay) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Atalay, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0060par0333	My dear President, my dear fellow congressmen, I salute you with respect and love. I pray that the spirit will bring blessings to all communities, to all peoples, especially our country. It's clear how much humanity needs a new day, a new sun, a new light, and a new fire in a world where it's cold in a pitch-black darkness. Dear friends, in all cultures goods are represented by light, light, darkness, persecution, because light, peace, justice, brotherhood, the superiority of rights and law, well being, brotherly, right sharing, solidarity, being together, and walking together to tomorrows. The darkness refers to all kinds of evil, strife, injustice, destruction of the other, war, racism, exploitation, imperialism, hostility, hatred, conflict, denial and denial of the other. It is in this context that the spirit should speak, if we think about it, that we should turn from every evil to good, to repent in religious terms. From slavery to oppression to justice, from poverty to prosperity, from enmity to friendship, from war to peace. Nevruz also refers to change, diversity, innovation, innovation, and discovery of innovation. Because new things, new words, new ways is the only way to save our futures, methodology. That's probably what the valued thinker, the famous Sufi, says to the governor: ▪ How good it is to go from place to place every day, It's nice to be put away every day. It's nice to flow without getting sick or freezing. He left with yesterday, dear. As many words as are said yesterday, Now you have to say something new. Because today, the fate of individuals and societies who can't renew themselves, think about new things, talk about new things, dare not try new things will be to be defeated in the future. This is the fate of the individual and of the community. Thus, it is in our will, in our own hands, and in our own courage that we make our destiny better or worse. That's how you know what a nerd is. I hereby congratulate all communities from the Middle East, from the Balkans to the front of Asia, far from Asia. I salute the House.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0061par0347	Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0062par0348	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0061par0349	I'll call the number of decisions I need. But, Mr Varli, I told you I'd give you my word. First I'll give you my word on 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0063par0354	Thank you, Mr. President. The retired ambassador of our country's key statesmen and the 23rd term nationalist movement party Ankara MP, our esteemed brother, Mr. Sea Company Chief Hakk. I offer him God's mercy, and my condolences on his grieving family, and his place will be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit01spe0061par0356	Thank you. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes. I'll call the number of decisions I need. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit02spe0061par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit02spe0064par0005	President, don't call it that.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit02spe0065par0006	Yes, there is. If you call it that, it's really...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit02spe0066par0007	There's a disagreement, a disagreement.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit02spe0067par0008	Yeah, there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to invite the members of the group, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0067par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the offer... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0068par0005	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0067par0006	Yes, Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system. Congressmans, please stop humming. From now on, we're going to start group proposals and follow-up motions, and we're going to ask you to continue a little bit here. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0069par0012	Mr. President, I've been meaning to take a word with you on that. While the motions were being discussed, there were or were not five in the ruling ranks of this Parliament. Now, if this really is a negotiation place, this is where everyone should be and defend the law they bring in. They come in, guys, and there's this big hum right now, and then they leave. Now, all of our friends today are in the area, in various provinces and celebrations of Nevroz. So we're trying to be as much as we can -- we want today to be a holiday -- but since they don't -- they don't have the ruling party legislatures, and each time we're told whether or not there's enough to decide whether or not there's enough? So we're the opposition. It's our duty to make this opposition, and it's the power's duty to stand here and defend what it does. I'm inviting lawmakers into this position. Otherwise, we'll always ask for the number of decisions enough, and we have that right. I'm sorry, no one's bothered by this.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0070par0015	Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Charter, which I shall have read and submit to your votes. I now read the Republican People's Party group proposal: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 21/03/2018 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. It has been suggested that the meeting of the Central Assembly Council of Turkey's National Assembly's agenda be held on Wednesday 21/03/2018 Wednesday (Today) in an effort to assess the reasons and prevention of young unemployment in the part of the General Assembly's agenda. Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, who has proposed the proposal. Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0071par0031	Mr. President, good lawmakers, unemployment is increasing every day in our country. Over 24 million people have applied for work in 15 years, 22 per cent have been able to find work. In the meantime, 18 million, 614,706 people were unable to find employment. In 2003, 174,554 people turned to ISKUR from 15 to 24 years of age, and the number of applicants between 15 and 24 years of age increased from 174,000 to 882.837. Each week, 9.523 young people apply to İSKUR for a job. Justice and Development Party governments do not provide solutions to young people's unemployment. The youth unemployment rate for college graduates also increases year after year. There are engineers who can't get a job, even though they're applying to İSKUR, and teachers who can't get an appointment. The situation of non-assigned teachers and non-assigned medics is slightly different from the others, because although there are available staffs in the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of National Education, unfortunately, these young people are not allowed to be employed. Young people who are unemployed and desperate have become more troubled than yesterday. Young people are concerned about unemployment. Although there is a desire and a desire to work, young people face the stress and problems of not finding a job. According to men, girls have more unemployment. College graduates have to look for jobs outside of their studies. Unfortunately, young people who have graduated from college have failed to find work at their majors, and they have to work at what they find, and despite years of training, they do not have the opportunity to work at a job they aim at. In young people's hiring and non-compulsives are often eliminated by what is called an interview, where there is a victim. In that sense, it's the right thing to do in all the purchases, especially in public. It also makes you think that young unemployment has doubled according to adult unemployment. The situation of public employment opportunities, education and internship systems, education-industrial co-operation, the establishment of higher education and education, would be useful to address with a parliamentary survey. The increase in youth unemployment is also worrying about our future in our country. Because when young people can't find work, they meet negatives beyond their circumstances. When we look at the general fabric of our country, one of the main causes of problems is unemployment. The government must open up the way for young people to address the important problem of unemployment. In the current case, it would be helpful to find problems in the field in light of the assessment that we have provided with a research proposal to overcome the problems that unemployment causes in young people. Because one of the main tasks of the House is to do research on it and work on it, including legal regulations, to solve the problem. The increase in unemployment in young people and nearly double the unemployment rate in the older ones is a concrete indication that the problem we face is alarming. Therefore, we, the Republican People's Party, request a parliamentary investigation into the solution of young unemployment. I think it's important for the future of our country to address the issue with legal regulations after such efforts, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0072par0038	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0073par0042	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Republican People's Party's Council for Research on the Causes and Solutions of Young unemployment. I salute you and our viewers. Of course, he made significant contributions to Turkish foreign policy and Turkish political life; he has met with our party's former Vice President, the valued diplomat and political man Deniz Squadron Leader Rahman. After tomorrow's ceremony at 11 p.m. at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, after the funeral prayer at Kocatepe Mosque, we will see the eternal world at Cebeci Asri Cemetery. I ask God's mercy for the great Seashare. I congratulate the great Turkish nation on the Day of Nevruz, calling for unity and unity. I also ask God's mercy for the anniversary of the death of the great poet, Veysel. Dear lawmakers, unemployment is a major problem in our country. The narrow-defined unemployment rate, as of December 2017, is 10.4 per cent and 3 million 291 per cent in quantity, but in a broad view, unemployment is 18.3, more than 6 million unemployed in Turkey. 666,000 people, unfortunately, have been looking for work for many years and have lost hope, and more than 1,600,000 people are looking for work, and if they find it, they will immediately get a job. When you say young people are unemployed, by the definition of ILO, it means people between the ages of 15 and 24 years old. Young unemployment has two sources. The first one was one of those who left high school without finishing his studies, and the second one was one of those who graduated from college and couldn't get a job. According to TUİK data, as of January 2016, the youth unemployment rate is 17.9%. As of January 2017, this rate has increased to 24.5 per cent; the increase is 5.3 per cent. Of course, for those who have left without finishing high school education, our country is the first in Europe, the ratio is high, the 30 per cent. There is a problem: When we look at it from a high school perspective, you look at it from the other side, and you look at it from the other side, and there are major problems in the industrial interpersonal power. On the one hand, millions of unemployed, on the other side, the trouble with the interpersonal supply. I'd like to say, of course, there are about 7.5 million students in the university. Each year 1,500,000 students graduate. It's a fact that it's nice to open a university in every county, but considering the growing unemployment, I say a planned higher education is better, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0074par0050	Thank you, Mr. Tor. İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0075par0054	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute you all and congratulate you on the feast of Nevruz. Dear friends, today is the Day of Nevruz of the peoples of Anatolia, Mesopotamia, Balkan and Caucasus. I celebrate the festival of Nevrosis of all our peoples. I celebrate the festival of Nevroz of all political prisoners, including my co-Chairs, Selahattin Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. ..... [[x]] Dear friends, the Republican People's Party has a motion on young unemployment. The unemployment is over 10 per cent and, unfortunately, solidified. The day the AKP came to power, unemployment was 7.8 per cent, today 10.4 per cent. Is that a success? You know how you tell great success stories? We are in a much worse situation in youth unemployment, over 20 percent of which are hardened, friends. Our young people are unemployed, desperate, and those with jobs are forced to work under very bad conditions, unsecured, under very low wages. We support this motion on our young people's work and unemployment issues until the end, and we expect the ruling party to support it. Friends, look, yesterday, he was able to bring in a ruling party to increase the unregisteredness of our 18-25-year-olds. We demand that this motion be withdrawn. That substance must be withdrawn, and our young 18-25-year-olds should be able to work on a registered basis. Look, we call it young unemployment, much higher unemployment rate in young women between 15 and 25 years of age, 25 percent and more. In fact, in the countryside, especially in the home ministry, the women who work in the fields seem to be working, but they have no guarantees, friends. They appear to be in the operating department, but they work unsecured and under no charge. Guys, there's a structural problem in our country. See, in the West, in democratic countries, youth unemployment among educated young people is extremely low because there is a planned education, and youth with university graduates are low enough to say there is no unemployment. But in our country, the unemployment rate is much higher in college-educated young people. We got a structural problem here, guys. Let's support this motion in this sense, let's go to Parliament and set up a commission in this, I say, let's look at that, folks. Another issue is young unemployment, and look, we have people who are also unemployed, especially because of their identity during polarization, camping times. In conflicted climates like this, there may be some reflexes about not hiring others against other identities he sees. I'd say this commission should run fast. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0076par0066	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the last word belongs to Servant Congressman Alim Tunç (Tunç) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group Mr. Bronze, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0077par0070	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, and I salute your grand delegation. It's March 21st Nevruz Day, and I'm celebrating the holiday. I'm also celebrating the day of our young angels with Down syndrome. Hopefully, there will be a commission for that in the coming days. I hereby salute all the disabled. Honourable lawmakers, I'd like to give you some information about the jobs and employment of our young people in Turkey. At a time when unemployment, our young population and our country were rapidly developing and developing, we have made significant distances in the 16 years of our young people's employment. According to 2016, 2017 data on the employment of young unemployed persons in the 15-24-year-old group dropped 4.1 per cent and 19.3 per cent. And with the President's call for mobilisation of employment and production, there has been a quick deployment of employment in our organised industries and all of our businesses. If we look at European countries, Turkey has become the country where the most jobs are created and jobs are constantly increasing, young unemployed are reduced. According to 2017 third quarter data, Macedonia is the highest of the young unemployed. The youth unemployment rate was lower on us than on Portugal, Macedonia, Spain, Croatia, France and Greece. So, the basic problems here were said by our speakers just now, in fact, due to a number of shortcomings in our educational system, which can't be combined with theory and practice, and the lack of the professional skills of our young people who have turned to flat schools who can't get vocational education. Because in the past, in order to shut down a school, in order to keep the entire business world away from our educated young people, all vocational high schools have been destroyed in order to shut down imam-hatred schools. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Of course, it's going to take time for this to be re-opened, again, to reveal the efficient and trained labor force in this way, but our government, our Ministry of Labor...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0078par0075	Thank you, Mr. Bronze.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0077par0076	I'll give you my final word, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0078par0077	Say your last word.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0077par0078	Mr. President, with our Ministry of Labor, our Ministry of Economics, and all of our ministries, with our Ministry of National Education, I believe that the opening of vocational upper secondary schools in organised industries right now and the collegiate-industrial cooperation will solve this problem, and I hope that in the coming years there will be a Turkey where our young unemployed find more work. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0078par0081	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0079par0082	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0078par0083	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0079par0084	I'm just saying for the record. Mr. Orator has stated that there is no malfunction in our youth and system here and that the vocational high schools in this area cannot be opened enough. It's not about vocational high schools, it's not about our young people, it's about the lack of production in 17 years. There's not a single factory that opens in 17 years. The facilities that are opened are unfortunately not for employment, nor are the products that create added value. Given all of this, if we accept this motion, together, we can come up with a common solution.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit03spe0078par0086	Thank you. It's in the transcripts. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0078par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, he does not discuss verbal question proposals, and we move on to the "Law Bill and Proposals" and to the "Other Affairs From the Commissions" part of the agenda. We will resume our talks with the Plan and Budget Commission Report, which is ranked in the 1st place, in accordance with the Tax Laws and the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws. The commission and the government are in place. Yesterday's merger was held in the same manner of motion of Article 67, which was part of the third chapter of the Law Bill 533, which was considered the main law according to Article 91 of the Civil Code. Members of parliament, the motions made by Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends on the 67th article have been withdrawn. There's a motion on the same clause that groups agree on, that they share, that I'm going to read and process, and I'm going to vote for you. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide the removal and appropriation of Article 67 of the Law Bill 533, which is currently in session. Mustafa Elitaş Erhan Usta Mehmet Doğan Kubat İlknur İnceöz Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Engin Özkoç Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0080par0020	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0078par0021	Government? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: It is intended to be removed from the draft text on the obvious need. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. So the item was removed from the draft text. In order not to cause any confusion, we will continue the negotiations of the bill through the existing matter numbers. The articles will be identified during the written by the law.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0081par0028	Mr. President, I'd like a brief word for 60.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0078par0029	According to 60, come in, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0082par0030	Mr. President, I want word on 60.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0078par0031	Mr. Bektasoglu, I swear, your insistence continues. Let's see. I'll give it to you after Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0083par0034	Thank you, Mr. President. It was a clause that would increase the work of young people off the record, Mr. President. In both the Commission phase and the General Assembly phase, we had this opposition, and it was happily withdrawn by the joint suggestion of all groups. Dear friends, a recommendation to the ruling party and to the majority party: I think it's in the best interest of all citizens to sometimes meet in common with the opposition's suggestions and to associate with other substances, especially such as these that will allow our young people to work in the register. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0084par0038	Thank you. Mr. Bektasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0085par0041	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I too celebrate the Day of Nevruz of our people. And I pay my respects to my brothers with Down syndrome, and I salute them. Mr. President, over 1 million citizens use the Army-Greesun Airport every year. The demand is increasing every day, but without any grounds, the Turkish Airways administration changes flight planning, reduces, transfers, cancels, removes flights, especially in Istanbul, Ankara, İzmir and Antalya. There are always hours of delays. Finally, some flights from İstanbul Sabiha Gökçen were cancelled in March. Although it is longer distanced, however, there is an even more expensive ticket sale than the Tripoli Airport. Transport between service personnel and districts is insufficient. Which means our airport is being held at a loss. Everything is being done to avoid preferentialization, to divert passengers to other airports. Transportation is a constitutional and human right. Even if it's damaged, we want the flights to be organized and restored, the number of flights to increase. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0086par0049	Yes, Mr. Ozkoch, you're welcome to the 60.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0087par0051	Thank you very much. I've pointed out here before, that in the interests of the country, the opposition, without looking for power, should come together and we should discuss these issues and do the right thing. In this direction, my friend, the deputy chief of the group, has made a statement, and I say it's only right to act in the interests of the country, not with a sense of opposition, but with the right perspective. We thank the Commissioner and our concerned friends for withdrawing the 67th article. I hope we can discuss this more properly. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0088par0055	Thank you. Now, there's a motion on Article 68, which I'm going to read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the age of ▪25, which is included in Article 68 of the Law Bill 533, which is currently in session, should be changed in the form of.30. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0089par0069	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0088par0070	Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir will speak on the motion. Mr. Kerestecioğlu Demir, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0090par0075	Mr. President, I'd like to present you with a short Turkish painting from yesterday to today, as the esteemed MPs begin the law again. The metro tender, cancelled in İstanbul, was given quietly to the AK PARTI supporters. The daughter of the Chief Prosecutor, who collected tea with Erdogan, was promoted. New judges and prosecutors were appointed at the EC PARTY. There's been a rape in the police car. The assistant manager was suspended from harassment in Bursa. A Farm Bank score also took place in Kayseri. Millions of tablets were distributed to schools, thousands of smart boards, and the FATIH Project was requested for bankruptcy. The exchange has also affected the pharmaceutical market, and there are no imported drugs available. Erdoğan said, "We will lay the foundation of Akkuyu with Putin. Turkey's prison population has increased record. The suspect Batmaz has always been very good with the Syrian government. Of course, there's a view that won't stop counting. Now, we defend our homeland in Afrin, we clean the country, we provide security for the country. You say, this is happening in the country you left behind; it's happening in the next country; it's a promotion to the side, it's a promotion to the fellow judiciary, it's rape, it's harassment, it's fraud, it's theft. Now, there's a theft ring called the Farm Bank, and it's scamming 77,000 people. When is this happening? High judiciary members are gathering tea with AKP President. And by the way, there's a lot of money coming in, no one can hear. Erdoğan says the interest will fall. The Farm Bank cheats the citizen with the promise of interest higher than any other bank, and the BDDK sleeps. When do people get ripped off? The AKP-MHP election alliance, the votes are all for me, me, all the time. While the law is being cooked in the palace, someone is scamming the citizen. From whom did they learn to defraud a citizen? There's December 17th-25th corruption in this country, there's dollars hidden in shoeboxes, there's Man Islands, there's a Zarrab case that's going to announce billions of dollars in fines to the banks soon, so there's enough manuals, more than enough for fraud. So, where's the courage from? Because there is no justice in the country, there is no independent judgment; he can do whatever he wants, any irregularity, any corruption. The country itself has returned to Farm Bank, and it should not be surprised that almost one person has gone out and defrauded tens of thousands of people. A woman is being raped in a police car assigned to protect a citizen. Where does he get the courage? If you call the police "Sararay" behind you, if you get the special operative who raped the woman in Mardin to be acquitted, the point is that the rape will arrive at the police station, unfortunately, and that's the result. Who's going to answer for corruption, theft, harassment and rape, women's murders? Judgement. And what judgment is that? Is the high-judgment president representing the AKP chief who is collecting tea and his daughter is promoted to high justice? Are the prosecutors and judges in front of you in front of you in court, buttoning your jacket or clapping your hands standing up, handing out justice? The political leg of the July 15 coup has not been revealed. You've forgotten the days you held hands with him until yesterday. I was very good with the AKP. He says, "No sound." How far can you conceal the facts of the country? How long can you cover up the facts with Afrin? Afrin, what happened? Is unemployment down, inflation down, national income up, poverty down, corruption down, public welfare up, justice independent, women's murders, child abuse over? Yeah, go up to the citizen and tell him all about it, what happened? Citizens of this country will pay the economic cost of fighter planes, bombings, tanks, rifles. You said there were no olives left for a citizen to have breakfast at his table. Why don't you tell me the truth? The dollar has reached its 4 lira limit and what are you doing? We've produced nationalism, domesticity, domestic weapons. You say. Don't take rice, lentils, noodles from outside and make native weapons, fellas. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0091par0082	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 68th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 69: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 69 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0092par0095	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0091par0096	Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0093par0100	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. You know, there was an arrangement in the 67th article that increased the number of unregistered young people. With the opposition we've made, we've convinced the ruling majority that this clause has been withdrawn. We thank the entire House, but there's only as dangerous a substance as he is, my friends, this is the 69th article. Look, again, in the 90s, there was a term for showing the worker ten days. Show the worker five days, see, not work, show him. There was a term for showing it for ten days. There was a term for it because if employers had 50 workers to pay less, to pay less taxes, they would give them ten days and pay as much as 15 workers' bonuses, and they would employ those workers. Those workers would be deprived of social security, pension rights would be pushed further, and our government would lose both bonuses and tax losses, my friends. Then there was an arrangement for the workers, which had been shown low -- look, I don't say low. If you're going to show a worker for ten days, if you're going to show him for fifteen days, you're going to have to give me a document. Why are you showing me ten days? Why are you showing me 15 days? You have to give me his document, his motive. He said. Look at the NGO statistics, after this decision was made, all of a sudden the question of showing these ten days, showing them for five days is gone because our employers are still afraid of the government, friends, if they have to give a document to the government, they think five times. And at that point, the low-down issue has been greatly reduced, my friends. It was a good practice. Look, now the Ministry of Labor is withdrawing with this motion. Employers are said to be: "O employers, you don't have to give me a document if you're going to make a worker look low anymore." You show the worker five days, show him ten days, show him fifteen days, don't give me any papers. My plea to you, my friends, is to make no use of this substance. If you allow this clause, I assure you, a year from now, we'll have to rectify it in two years, because I think that when employers start to look low on hard times, when it's hard to make money, when some of them start to look low on unfair competition, other employers will participate in this poor show-off. As a result, our workers will both be deprived of pension rights, guaranteed rights to work, and our government will face bonus losses, loss of SGO bonuses, and tax loss from there. I want to hope that you won't respond to this clause as well as to the 67th. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0094par0108	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0095par0109	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit04spe0094par0110	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit05spe0094par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision in İstanbul MP Garo Paylan and his friends' motion on Article 69 of Law Bill 533. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... We'll do it with an electronic voting device. I'll give you two minutes, and I'll start the clock. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0094par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The second vote of İstanbul MP Garo Paylan and his friends' motions on Article 69 of Law Bill 533 was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. We continue the talks of Bill 533. Congressmans, I beg you, please, let's wait a moment, there are motions, you know, every five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0096par0007	Mr. President, you're asking, but without it, there's enough to decide." So you're saying.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0094par0008	There's enough to make a decision, Filiz Haným.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0096par0009	Where are they?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0097par0010	There's more, Mr. President, more.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0096par0011	There's 90 people here.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0098par0012	We counted, there's 90 of them.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0099par0013	I do. The commission is in place. The government is in place. I'm now reading the other motion on Article 69: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide a change in Article 69 of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533, which are currently in session. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Mehmet All Bulent Yener Bektasoğlu Ancient Durmaz Süleyman Ayser Ayata The fourth and fifth jokes found in Article 86 of Article 69-5510 have been changed as follows. "The lack of days and missing days of insurance that are not employed or paid during some workdays during the month are declared on a monthly monthly bonus and service certificate or a bonus service statement for the employer. The shape of documents, content, supplements, times of interest, hiding, and other issues are determined by the institution's regulations, which show that the insurance people work less than 30 days. If the information and documents that show that insurance workers work less than 30 days are requested by the institution, if they are not submitted or given information or documents that are not valid by the institution, the monthly bonus and service document for less than 30 days or the declaration of employment and bonus service, should not be given within a month of notice or given any nuclei, the institution shall arrange re'sen'sen and collect its bonuses on the basis of the Law's provisions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0100par0029	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0099par0030	Government? We don't agree, sir. On the motion, Balıkesir MP Mehmet All will speak. Mr. All, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0101par0035	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's March 21st Nevruz Day. Nevruz is a symbol of brotherhood, peace, spring, and resurrection, and also a symbol of the persecution of the oppressed against the oppressor. Happy Nevruz Day to all our citizens, citizens, and citizens in our country, in the hope of a cause for peace and democracy. Dear lawmakers, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights issued a report yesterday. The report states the following: The routine extension of the state of emergency declared on July 20, 2016 has led to extensive, deep human rights violations against hundreds of thousands. The United Nations is calling for the removal of our government's extraordinary state. About 160,000 people have been arrested in an extraordinary state of 18 months, the report said. (It's been known to be a common practice of pleasure detention, torture, and maltreatment.) Statements and gathering rights are under attack and 152,000 civil servants have been fired. Again, the report says that teachers, academics, judges and lawyers have been fired, MPs have been arrested, journalists have been arrested, media organs have been shut down, access to websites has been blocked. Unfortunately, all the information in the report is correct; it's incomplete, there's no more. Dear lawmakers, this report of the United Nations is a document of shame for our country. The United Nations attributes all these rights violations to the State of Emergency, but we all know it's called fascism. Fascism, under the name of the State of Emergency, shames our country around the world. The State Department's statement to the United Nations after this report continues to be a disgrace. The ministry says the United Nations report contains false claims that coincide with the propaganda of terrorist organisations. The State Department is accusing the United Nations of being a member of the United Nations. Anyone who criticizes your power, you immediately say, "It's the same as yours." For the speaker, you said, "Adjin Şık, Akin Atalalay, Murat Soapcu," and he did not. In the hunger strike, you said Nuriya and Namih were terrorists, but they didn't.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0102par0040	Mr. President, get to the point.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0101par0041	You called the human rights advocates fucking couldn't keep it. Even in your pool media, you said "Obama," you humiliated us, and he didn't. Now, you're saying the same thing about the United Nations. The whole world looked at you with pity, sadness, and today, the whole world mocks your power. Unfortunately, our people suffer for this nonsense. Dear lawmakers, almost no developed state in the world recognizes Turkey's reputation. For some time, the world has not been able to attract us, Europe is jealous of us. Turkish lira became the most valuable currency in the world in March. $1.4 lira, Euro reached $5. The price of oil has dropped all over the world, but yesterday you raised the price of gasoline. Young unemployment has passed 20 per cent. The poverty limit is over 5,000 liras. We're discussing tax laws in the House today. Tax hikes set a record. The public is being oppressed under heavy taxes. Now, I ask you, what will the world be jealous of when the painting is like this? You're pathetic, not jealous. Dear lawmakers, in the 2002 elections, we will remove the state of emergency. You are in power under the promise of the promise. Today, you aim to remain in power by using the OHAL. The State of Emergency is the refrigeration of democracy. The state of emergency is that human rights and freedoms are ignored. The state of emergency is to undermine our country's reputation. A state of emergency is a desecration of national will. You have to fix this painting sooner or later. There's no legitimacy to a choice, a law, an arrangement, in the shadow of a state of emergency. Come, if you are confident, open the way for politics under equal and just conditions. I say we lift the state of emergency, unreturned, open the way for peace and democracy in our country together. Mr. President, today is the anniversary of Veysel's death, and let me read from Veysel the Lover.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0103par0045	We don't extend in the motions, but...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0101par0046	Now...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0103par0047	Finish it now.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0101par0048	Dear friends, the voice of Anatolia, which speaks of nature, humanity, peace and love to all mankind, I remember him with respect, love, and mercy on the 45th anniversary of the death of our beloved poet, Veysel. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In love, Veysel says: ▪ Don't look down on me, brother, You're gold. Am I brass? We're from the same world. You're silver and I'm hair? I've got what you've got, The same being in every body. Tomorrow, when you're in the grave, You're full and I'm hungry? Some mullahs, some dervishes, What God has given us. Some call it a bee flower, You're honey and I'm cheetah? It's the earth, the body, Kill yourself before you die. He has commanded it, the Creator, You're a pencil and I'm a fly? Natureta Veysel is in love, We're dust, bro. We're the same traveler, comrade. You're the passenger. Am I the head? Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0104par0073	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 69th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 70th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 70th article of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0105par0085	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0104par0086	Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0106par0091	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I advise you to read the article, my friends. See, it says "captivating," it says "captors," it says "conservative janitorship." Yes, when we were children, we had janitors, and their names were keepers, and they were really responsible for the security of our apartment, everything, and we lived in a social relationship with them. There was an attendant in the building, who was called a captor, but it was everything in the building, the security of the children, burning the furnace, and all the work and services of the building. They were stuck in tiny little places, living in difficult conditions. The names of those days were the captors. You all know the film of the late Kemal Sunal, the king of the gatekeepers, the oppressed worker Kemal Sunal in that film, King of the Doormen. Look, in 2018, the AKP government brings in a clause that still tells the housing workers that they're the keepers. It's March 2018, and the AKP still calls those housing workers, home workers, the captors. Currently, we have hundreds of thousands of citizens working in housing, and I complain about AKP power; AKP power still calls you captors. It's an insult in some way, guys, and we're not supposed to admit it. However, what this means today is that it is the work of the host, it is the work of the host, and it must be done in this framework.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0107par0093	Let's fix it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0106par0094	Look, there's a huge handicap in this article, you know, it's added to what's called housework, especially to women who do household labor, people who go to the day service, they've been given the authority to pay their insurance through the bank, so that the people who run the day-to-day people can deposit their premiums into the bank without making a statement. Now, it's being added to the housing workers described as the captors, friends, and do you know what the item says? You don't give me a declaration, you don't need a declaration, you put your ten-day bonus in the bank, I'll consider it a workout. Dear friends, yes, you support flexible work, but it's unregistered, uninsured, unsecured work, my friends. Let us not pave the way for uninsured, unsecured work by housing workers. In particular, in recent years, there are no more fixed staff in the apartments, you force them to work flexiblely, and there is one other thing: subcontractorization. You know, especially in recent years, many of our citizens have been living on websites, unfortunately, ghettoized, non-socializing sites, where housing workers are no longer employed, they're given to subcontractors, guaranteed. It's also a material that clears the way for subcontractors. Because of all these handicaps, we demand that this clause be withdrawn, and we expect your support for this request. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0108par0099	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendments to Article 70 of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu The Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya Süleyman Senser Ayata The title of Article No. 70-5510 of the Law "insurance and housing janitorship of employees in household services has been changed in the form of Hyah and added to its first joke: "Insurances for ten days and more days after the notice of those who have been insured have been employed at the housing doorman's workplaces. " Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0109par0111	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0108par0112	Government? We don't agree, sir. Sivas MP Ali Akyıldız will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. White Star.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0110par0117	Yes, Mr. President, my dear congressman friends, the very precious employees of our press and Congress, and my dear citizens watching us on screens, and I salute you all with love, respect, and conversation. Today is the day of the birth of Ali Hazreti. Today is the day of the marriage of Fatima. The day of the day of the marriage of Hazreti Ali. The day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the day of the marriage, the day of the day of the day of the tree's worship. The day of the meeting of the assembly of the victors, the day of the 40s, the day of the creation of the prophet Adam. Here we Alevis, for these important reasons, we care very much about the sultan. It is also the first national holiday of the Turks. Today is the day when the old Turks left their village and went up to their obas and celebrated spring. Now, of course, I'm not going to tell you about the great Ali and the good news, and I'm sure our fellow AK PARTI MPs will say, "We love Lord Ali, we love the people." But we're waiting here to say, "We love Hazreti Ali, we love the people, we love the people." Look, there are three decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights, and those decisions are still standing. If you really love Lord Ali, if you really don't discriminate, if you really want to apply the Constitution, then go ahead and apply the decisions of the ECHR that are in the middle. We don't expect any favors from you. We, as an equal citizen in Turkey, expect the European Court of Human Rights to implement their decisions. Of course, today is not just these beautiful events, but another incident that saddens us and sad our country, which is the day our great poet, Veysel the Lover, walked to Hakkk. Of course, it's not possible to tell you in the remaining two and a half minutes, but I'm trying to explain to you the philosophy of Veysel Baba's land, nature, that human love, that beauty is worth nothing. Beauty is hidden in your eyes, beauty is hidden in your eyes. Who's beautiful? What's ugly? Did you come across the poet's poetry? You won't. There is no ugliness in the heart of love, but there is a secret that makes all that it touches seem good. Isn't she the beauty in your heart who turned this barren land into a magnificent garden? Whatever the lover touches, the beauty ends there. Beauty is the garden in the heart of love. It's a breath to live. When you cry out to the world, "Hello." After that, life is like a burning cry; the rest is nature, nature, the creator, the land that gives life. ▪ The world has been declared, the situation has changed, Some go to the moon, some go to heaven. Yes, Veysel Baba said, "Let friends remember me." But we never forgot Veysel Baba, so that we might remember him. From here, I also offer my blessings and thanks to Veysel Baba. And in my remaining time, I would like to complete my words by conveying to you dear friends an event in the time of Ali the Lord - perhaps he will set an example today - that he did not accept. My fellow lawmakers, Jesus Ali has fought persecution, corruption all his life, yet he has never lost his courage and determination. With patience and endurance, he has never given away the truth and the truth; he has been a man who fought for justice, justice, and justice in his day. He refused to live in the palace prepared for him in Kufe, and he refused to live in a higher dwelling place than those who lived in the dry reeds that were cut from reeds. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0111par0127	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 70th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 71: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 71st article of the Law Bill, 533 rows in question, be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0112par0138	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0111par0139	Government? We don't agree, sir. Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0113par0144	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on Article 71 of the Bill of the Law on Amendments to Tax Laws 533 and Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with your permission, I'd like to call your attention to the issue of power cuts in Mardin province, which some lawmakers have expressed yesterday -- that I also have an election district. Dear lawmakers, the need for electricity has now become one of the essential needs, such as water and air, but for four days, many villages and towns in the districts of Derik and Kızıltepe, Mardin province have been experiencing power shortages. Look, where we come from, it's impossible to think about life without electricity from the dwellings to the big businesses. Precious lawmakers continue to debate that the Dicle Electric Dispersal Corporation, known simply as "DEDAŞ," delivers electricity from one side of Diyarbakır, Batman, Şanlıurfa, Mardin and Şırnak, does not separate the budget for infrastructure investments, while on the other hand, the cities in which it is responsible, unfortunately there are constant power cuts in the district of Mardin, where I am particularly a deputy. Notice that for more than four days, many of the villages and towns in Derik and Kızıltepe districts of Mardin province have suffered major losses caused by blackouts. Our people who live in villages and villages are suffering from shortages of electricity in both agricultural and everyday life. Our farmers can't water their fields, they can't use and drink water because the villages are empty and there's no electricity, and citizens' white goods are useless because of the cuts. Mr. President, good lawmakers, according to information sent to my side, this power outage has been caused due to the failure to pay the electricity debts that DEDAS has imposed on farmers. So DEDAS is punishing citizens in the region in some way for their debt to electricity. See, our farmers are in a very difficult position because of the high prices of diesel, fertilizer, and agricultural medicine. Last year's drought and loans to banks have increased the farmers' burden financially. Farmers also face loss of this year's crops due to power shortages because they are often irrigated by electrical irrigation systems on agricultural land. At the latest point, many of the fields have been damaged due to water shortages due to power shortages. Dear lawmakers, electricity blackouts, which are somewhat effective in all of Turkey, and the missing problem of illegal electricity continue to exist in much more serious dimensions in our eastern and southeast regions. Tension surges in summer are accompanied by hours of power outages every day in winter, as well as thousands of pounds of financial damage, life for citizens is unbearable. In the summer months, citizens of Urbana, Diyarbakır and other district cities, particularly my constituency district, are experiencing power shortages due to fluctuations in power distribution networks. Dear lawmakers, health institutions and industrial facilities in the region are unable to work and are unable to produce due to power shortages. This situation, which has caused major losses to the region and the country's economy, has now reached more severe levels than ever. It is not acceptable for electricity shortages to occur in a region with numerous dams, the main source of electricity production in our country. One of the primary tasks of political power is to provide the public with cheap, quality and uninterrupted electricity. It is fundamentally essential that electricity suppliers provide the services that are appropriate for this purpose. I repeat once again in the presence of Parliament and all our representatives, the General Assembly, that the authorities must immediately proceed on this matter and show the precision necessary for the immediate end of the victims of our citizens.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0114par0152	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of the 71st Article of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533, as follows. With all due respect. Zakariya Balıel Süleyman Senser Ayata Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Yakup Akkaya Kadim Durmaz Bkent Kuşoğlu The following article has been added to Law 71-5510. ▪EKMADE 16-Second institutes founded by the Foundations, school family units and private sectors where the institution has purchased services at home according to Article 73 of this Law; this Law is used by the Law on unemployment insurance, Law on 4857, Law on Research, Development and Design Assistance, Law on Culture Investment Investments and Initiatives No. 5225, Social Assistance and Solidarity Act 3294; this Law on Social Welfare and Solidarity, the Law on Social Services, and the Enforcement Act No. 28287, and other Law on Promotions, and Privationsy and Promotions. The higher education institutions and school family units established by the Foundations cannot and cannot be used back-to-back the premium incentives, support and discounts provided by the laws provided by this clause concerning the period prior to the execution date of Article 17 remain sealed, and the incentives, supports and reductions that have been used cannot be changed. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the institution by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, the Ministry of Finance, the Undersecretary of Treasury and the opinion of Turkey's Business Institution. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0115par0169	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0114par0170	Government? We don't agree, sir. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0116par0175	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, I love you very much. However, there will be no waste for you in Düzce. It's not the mayor's word, it's my word. You said it. You said it, and I hoped I'd be ashamed of you. Unfortunately, what we're getting at now is that the Hecinlers are being dumped again, and as the Hecinlers are not finished with that garbage, there's an animal shelter in the village, and the villagers are uncomfortable. For God's sake, instead of bringing peace and happiness to this Düzce. Your word stands, I believe you. So, why can't you fulfill your promise to the Hecinians? I beg you, I ask you to stand by that promise you made to the Hecinians, and I salute you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0114par0177	Thank you. Can I answer? Mr. Secretary, I'll make you a short promise. Here you go. Now, Mr. Tanal, we've talked about this before, I told the Hecins not to get trashed, and now there's no trash in there.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0117par0183	It's not gonna spill anymore? The information that comes to you is false, and the Hecin are not littered; and I stand by my word.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0114par0185	Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0117par0187	I'm clapping too, if it's not gonna spill, I'm clapping, I'm saying it loud and clear. We're doing a study on garbage, setting up a condition, hopefully we'll get a tender next month, but not garbage, we'll build a factory. We're going to build a factory, we're going to get energy and fertilizer from this factory. So we're not going to make wild storage or regular storage; we're going to build a factory, and we're going to get fertilizer, organic fertilizer and energy from this factory. On the other hand, about this animal shelter... Look, we're not building an animal shelter, we're creating a habitat. We're building a habitat for stray animals in the flat, and we're doing it with the Ministry of Forestry. So it's not a classic shelter where animals are imprisoned, it's a natural habitat. It's going to be about 16 acres, and we've done a lot of work on the floor selection. This is the location of the Ministry of Forestry, not of the villagers, at least two kilometers from the villagers. Thus, in European Union standards, this will be a very civilized, Turkish-fitting, flat-faced social habitat for animals.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0118par0191	Please complete... let's finish. I'll finish it. We're going to collect street animals here, we're going to do health care for them, we're going to neuter them if we have to; we're going to keep them here temporarily, we're going to work with animal-loving associations to get them owned. It's a very civilized place. Don't worry. Thank you very much. Mr. Bachelor, we've kept you waiting, but... İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on the motion. Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0119par0203	Mr. President, my dear friends, I'm going to talk to you about the motion we made on the 71st Article of Law Bill 533. It brings privileges to foundations universities and institutions in which the SGK has done business. My dear friends, you know, everyone knows and ignores the fact that the public universities' medical school hospitals are failing and no one's moving a finger about it. My dear friends, all of this bill of law and the bag that I've mentioned before -- here's what I've said before -- the work that's being done to fix the economy in panic, because it's going bad, but as all these studies go on, nothing gets better, and everything gets more complicated, and the economy becomes unmanageable, and Turkey becomes unmanageable. Look, while things were going well in the past, you would constantly talk about those basic figures of the economy and you would brag; and you would get up; that's the inflation, that's the limiting of the currencies. So, I'm asking you now, my dear friends, how many in Turkey is the interest? You know how the President keeps saying, "Put the interest down." Do you know how many in Turkey is the interest? Do you really know? Come on, the inflation numbers are coming out and everything, but what's the current situation with the targets? What's unemployment? It's been announced recently, dropped two points, where did it fall? Young unemployed people. We'll see who's employed by apprentices and trainees and all that. My dear friends, you're really starting to cheat and go around the back. Go look into the websites of the Central Bank, look at interest figures; night interest rates, marginal funding 9.25 per cent; Central Bank debt interest is 7.25 per cent; a week-long repo tender interest is 8 per cent. Do you know how much money our treasure borrowed yesterday? He was in debt over 1.5 billion TL. How much did he sell it for? 14 percent, my dear friends. I mean, really, it's not the same thing as what's written. Look, you keep making excuses, saying you're still flying Turkey. I'll give you some numbers from the past, you know, when you're good: look, you've been in government for 16 years. In the meantime, Turkey's total exports are 1 trillion 777 billion and imports are 2 trillion 754 billion dear friends; our foreign trade deficit over the past period is 976 billion 746 million dollars, a great number. Now our external deficit is due to energy. You say that. And the numbers we pay for energy are clear. Between 2003 and 2018, the total bill we're paying energy for is $557 billion, but clearly, when we extract the energy we're selling out, we're paying 488 billion for energy products. Again, it's as clear as the world, my dear friends. Why is this happening? Over the past month, exports and imports have been announced again. The Turkish Statistical Agency announced its foreign trade deficit in January as 108 per cent, my dear friends. The figures in the government media in particular, the reports have come out as follows: "This is a record in exports." There was no mention of imports. Exports increased by 10 per cent, imports by 38 per cent. That's Turkey's main problem, and you, let alone solve the problem, are constantly busy sweeping dust under the carpet, dust under the carpet. You can do this, we can say it's none of our business, but Turkey is hitting the wall very quickly, going downhill, and the economy is hitting the wall very quickly, and these simple numbers are showing it clearly. My dear friends, the rate of importing exports has dropped from 70 per cent to 66 per cent in 2017. It's not sustainable. Seriously, get smart and take measures that will keep Turkey from hitting this wall, not distracting people here, not serving some lobby, serve the nation. You know how you always say we're nationals? You say we're locals, you serve the nation. These numbers only show that you're paying interest, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0120par0213	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 71st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 72: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 72 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0121par0224	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0120par0225	The government... We don't agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: The arrangement is a parallel arrangement with Article 71. There are other changes made in Law 5510. In the current case, employers received 5% of support when they paid regular bonuses, but this was a limited practice. Now, the scope of support is expanded by applying it to places in the matter. However, the fact that the arrangement is being carried back is seen as a violation of the principle that the law can't walk backwards, given the fact that institutions covered by a non-existent incentive have been used or made legal in the past. In this respect, we predict that the substance be removed from the draft text. I submit to your votes the motion of Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends, those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the amendment of Article 72 of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533, which are currently in session. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Süleyman Yansar Ayata Yakup Akkaya Ancient Durmaz The following article has been added to Law 72-5510. "EK MADDE 17- The premium incentive provided by this Law or other laws can be used to provide all the necessary conditions for the month/turns that have not been used, even though they can be used for support and reductions, and can be replaced with another bonus incentive, support and reductions, as well as the conditions for the application date to apply for the most six months, in the six months that have not been used, and in the six months following the month/turn that have not been used. Although this clause has provided all the conditions for the period before it takes effect, the pricing of the law or other laws may be used by employers who have not taken advantage of their support and reductions, or may be replaced by a bonus incentive, support and reductions that have been used by employers who are demanding support, support and reductions to change the date of this last item within a month's period of its implementation, if the primordial incentives, support and reductions that have not been used can be replaced by another bonus incentive, incentives, incentives and reductions that have been used. As part of the second joke of this clause, it will be returned to employers who are demanding it, and it will be paid in three years from the beginning of the calendar year, starting with the date of the application of the item, which follows its application date, and from the beginning of the period of the month after its application. The payment is primarily paid through 14th and 16th amendments of the 88th Article of the Law, from all kinds of outstanding premiums and loans, and then from all kinds of outstanding debts, including configuration or installments, according to the relevant laws. However, at the end of three years, due to its laws, due to construction or instalment, the payment of the payment has not been due. An employer who does not owe money to an institution is returned every six months with equal installments. In cases in which there is also no requirement for an application, however, the amount of legal interest to be calculated from the date of the pre-trial administrative application will be returned according to the third joke provisions. Courts have ruled that there is no room for the court to decide on the grounds that the case remains unsettled in cases filed prior to the date of this clause. The costs of judgement are left above the administration, and the payment of power of attorney is a quarter. In addition, decisions made by the first-degree courts are not applied to the Social Security Agency's laws, and the application for the law has been waived before the date of its adoption. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the institution by receiving the views of the Finance Ministry, Treasury Undersecretary and the Turkish Business Institution. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0122par0248	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0120par0249	Government? We don't agree, sir. Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş will speak on the motion. If you do the motions in the form of a change of expression, it's actually quite a long time to rewrite the same thing. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0123par0255	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge not on Article 72 but on Article 73, which the relatives of the mine martyrs look forward to. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, underground coal mining is the world's heavier, most dangerous, and most risky task force. For this reason, it is a business unit with the most work accidents, mass killings, and great tragedies. With the production of stone coal, Zonguldak carried the country's heavy industry on its back for years, while the Zonguldak people paid heavy prices. There have been many major mining accidents and great tragedies in Zonguldak. Of course, after these mining accidents occurred, families also suffered a social trauma, and there have been major casualties. Dear lawmakers, the relatives of those who lost their lives after the Soma accident were given important rights, one of which is that those who lost their lives in the accident should be given the right to work in public with one of their spouses, children or siblings. We, of course, feel that the right to be granted this very human and extremely conscientious right is a very proper arrangement. In fact, the arrangement in Article 73, which was originally intended to be brought in today, is also a proper arrangement. We're not against that either. Of course, this is the way to repair the victims and traumas caused by family families after the mining accidents that have become a social injury. However, this arrangement, however appropriate, is an incomplete arrangement. Dear MPs, two months ago Prime Minister Bali Yıldırım Zonguldak came to Zonguldak and gave good news. What did Prime Minister Zonguldak say? He said: "We have arranged the miners in Soma, as martyrs, and we have given some rights to their relatives. Zonguldak couldn't take advantage of these rights, so now we're fixing it. We also give martyrdom to our brothers who died in the Zonguldak coal business, and we employ one of their relatives in public. Is there a limitation in the prime minister's speech, dear friends? No. Is there a time limitation when we look at it in a way that a moderately sane citizen would understand? No, it's very clear. So, is there a time limit on the arrangement you brought in from the Plan and Budget Commission? I'm afraid I do. In the bill, relatives of those who lost their lives in accidents prior to 10 June 2003 do not benefit from those rights. I'd like to give you an example of the past, my dear friends: 103 miners died in Armutçuk in 1983, 68 in 1990 and 263 in Kozlu in 1992, 37 miners in Coronon. The families of those who lost their lives in these tragic accidents are unable to take advantage of these rights, and some 800 families will be victims. So, with the time limitation not being pushed back any further than 2003, new victims are emerging as a victim is trying to fix it. The principle of equality stated in Article 10 of the Constitution is clearly violated. But if the victim is to be compensated here, there should be no limitation for a period of time. If we say that our state is a great state, if we say that it is a state capable of healing all victims, then this substance must be regulated without a limitation of time. Dear lawmakers, we, the Republican People's Party, have made a motion in the Commission, saying: "Let all the relatives of the mineral martyrs benefit from these rights without a deadline." After that, the Commission was suspended, and then our Commission President, Mr. Satia Sadi Bilgic, said that the matter would be resolved in the General Assembly, meaning that the matter would be met with the terms of the deadline and that the matter would be limited. Dear MPs, today, we, the Republican People's Party, expect Prime Minister Buli Yıldırım to keep that promise, and not just us, but the wives of 800 miners, their children, their children, their widows, the orphans, expect the same promise to be kept, and all Zonguldak expects it to be kept. As Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said, the Republic is one of the orphans in particular. Let's take these victims, these orphans, these orphans, and accept the motion without distinction. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0124par0265	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 72nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 73 of the Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0125par0276	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0124par0277	Government? We don't agree, sir. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0126par0282	Mr. President, in addition to Law 5510, the job accidents in coal and lignite mines -- in fact -- are intended to employ the wife of the dead in the job murders -- if she has no children, one of her siblings will be employed in public institutions. The real owners of this country are workers, workers, miners. The miners who lost their lives, the employment of their relatives, yes, is positive, but being compressed into a specific date range also brings with it a new injustice. Why are the relatives of our miners who died before 2003 excluded from this arrangement? Why is it that on 7 March 1983, the relatives of 103 workers who lost their lives were kept out of the scope of Zonguldak. Again, on February 7, 1990, 65 workers were killed in the explosion of the Grizu in Amasya, and 38 miners were killed in a chain explosion that occurred on March 3, 1992 in Kozlu district of Zonguldak, in Kozlu district of Zonguldak. Again, we have miners who lost their lives during and after mining accidents in 2014. This arrangement must be reorganised by expanding its scope according to the principles of fairness. The truth is that in our country, unfortunately, there is little culture of business health and safety. The main solutions used in the world to prevent mining accidents, and the implementation of modern measures must be quickly improved. The main priority in preventing fatal accidents in the mines and considering the necessary solutions is the regular work of accident statistics and reporting. The more accurate and comprehensive assessments of the causes of accidents, the more effective and appropriate measures and solutions will be. But unfortunately, the mining accidents in our country are always wanted to be covered up. The total number of fatal accidents and deaths in the mining industry in Turkey is even greater than many high-risk businesses. Compared to the number and balance sheet of the world's mortal mining accidents, our country is by far at the top. Look, the Soma case is still going on, and he's going to have another trial soon. With each of the 301 workers who know the name and place of death by heart, the details of the indictment and the expert reports, the discovery, the discovery, the seer of the mine, the interviewer of the defendants, the replacement of the court president and the member judge's position, we also see that the required lessons are unfortunately not being removed, and they are still being covered. Another issue is the farmland that was destroyed because of the mines. Many fertile farmland is now useless because of the licenses given to the mines. In fact, people want to provide for themselves from agriculture and livestock, and those who do so are cut off, destroyed for the mines. Around here, people who can't work in mines, in agriculture, in livestock, who have been destroyed have to work, and the result is already death waiting for them. If we're thinking about miners and their relatives, we need to work on policies that predate workers and workers' health, not for bosses who are not thinking about anything but production, taking the necessary precautions. Moreover, it is not only the mines that are important, but the creation of guaranteed work conditions in all business areas. Because in your time of power, there have been about five work murders per day, and in general there have been 20,000 work murders. This painting is a terrible painting, my friends. This item must be changed. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0127par0290	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 5510 of Law No. 533 shall be replaced in the following manner, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 73. Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Özkan Yimım Hüseyin Çamak Muhammet Riza Yalçınkaya Şerafettin Turpcu The insurance holder, who died in an underground accident in the mines, is abandoned all debts to the institution, and the rightful owners of the 32nd Article (a) are subject to a monthly basis, regardless of the conditions prescribed for them. The amount of premiums predicted in this Law will be paid by the Ministry of Finance. In the income and monthly bonding of the deceased insurance holder to his parents, conditions are not required that the first joke of Article 34 (d) will be less than the minimum amount of income and per month's income specified by each and all other children, except the income earned and the monthly income and/or non-connected. One of the spouse and minor children of the deceased for reasons mentioned in the first joke is also applied for employment provisions on Article 3713 of Law No. 3713 if they do not have a spouse. The right of the dead insurance holder is reserved for 10 years, following the consent of minors. If the deceased has no spouse or children, the provisions for employment of a person, including one of his siblings, are also carried out on Article 3713 in Article 1 of the Law. The procedure and basis for the implementation of this clause are found by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance and the Undersecretary of Treasury. This is also the case of the insurance people who were killed in a work accident in the underground businesses of the mines before the substance was activated. The applications of the rightful owners will be finalised within 90 days, following their written application to the Institutional Administrations. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0128par0308	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0127par0309	Government? We don't agree, sir. Before the motion, Mr. Cleanel, you have a motion to make. Mr. Radish, a moment of your time. Mr. Maziel, I give you my word on 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0129par0317	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, our friend will give us detailed information on the motion, but I would like to offer only a brief piece of information to Mr. General Assembly with one last hope, so we asked for a word in accordance with Article 60. As the General Assembly, we're about to make another law against the principles of equality and justice, that's what's coming our way. I'll give you an example: three young people gathered together, talking in front of the House. The first one says: I'm 27 years old. My father died in 1992 in the explosion of Kozluda flu, when I was 1 years old. The second youth says: "I am 27 years old. My father died in the Soma mining accident in 2014, when I was 23. I was 26 years old when my father died in a mine accident in Zonguldak Karadon.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0130par0321	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0129par0323	Thank you. All three of their fathers were killed in a mining accident. According to this law, the young man whose father died at the age of one cannot benefit from this right, so the employment opportunity provided to those who lost his father and relatives in the mining accident is not valid, it will not apply to that child; the 27-year-old boy who was 23 years old when his father died in Soma. Zonguldak was not even a year old. His father died in Karadon, and he will not be able to benefit from it. Now, fellas, is what we're doing fair or fair? When we raise our hand here, this opportunity will be over. If the state of the Republic of Turkey is too weak to solve such an injustice problem, I take it all back. (CHP) But in the hope that this incident will be judged in the House, I present this to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0131par0327	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0132par0328	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0131par0329	Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0132par0330	Mr. President, for the record, In the 67th article, we made a beautiful compromise, and we did the right thing, the ruling opposition together. In the previous term, Mr. Minister, our President of the Commission said that there would be an agreement on the Commission as well, that it would be reached in the General Assembly, and that it would be agreed. There really is an injustice here. I ask once again to settle this with a joint motion that will protect all of our children, give them their rights and their law. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0133par0333	Thank you. Zonguldak MP Şerafettin Turpcu will speak on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Radish.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0134par0340	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to the Honorable Parliamentary Council of Ministers on Article 73 of the Constitution of 533 rows under discussion. I salute you all with respect and love. Dear MPs, the amendment proposal we submitted to the Plan and Budget Commission as CHP included the recognition of the rights of our miners who lost their lives after the Soma disaster, to all the mining families, to all the families whose lives were extended, to all the workers who lost their lives, to erase their debt to the SGK, to pay off their rights, to pay their rights, and to keep their children's rights hidden. The party groups agreed that the final form of this proposal, which was reasonable by the Commission's President and Mr. Finance Minister, would be granted in the General Assembly. But the AKP continues to insist that it does not make the change and that it does not make the mistake, even though it has promised. This is also an indication of how far away AKP's understanding of lawmaking is from solving problems. Unfortunately, the parties outside the AKP have all been rejected regardless of what its contents are. I'd like to remind you that despite the support of other opposition parties, the offer of the law for the families of the miners was rejected by AKP's votes on July 12, 2016. Dear lawmakers, there's been a change in the family of mine martyrs. You know, the one about the miners who were made out of them in Ramadan, and the family of the mine martyrs who were left behind in the month of Ramadan, who were born with them in the new year, but who died under a cave-in, and who couldn't even be reached. After every disaster, we work ourselves, we die ourselves, we save our dead. We arrange for the miners who say, "There is death below, there is hunger above; there is death below; the hunger above, the hunger above is certain." Do you think such an arrangement can be written? Would it fit the consciences to write it? Congressmans, I'm just asking you to put yourself in the shoes of our mining families for a moment. A fever falls into your heart, an unspeakable pain you've never experienced. My grandfather and father were miners. I'm a man who witnessed the mining extraction of the mines. I can't tell you that moment in words. You know, in Zonguldak, who gave more than 5,000 mineral martyrs, thousands of children were orphaned, mothers and fathers were tested with the pain of children. And the son of some, and the wife of some, and the father of some, and the neighbour of some, and the colleague of some, were not yet able to come out of the mine. What will politics solve in this country if politics is partisan when it solves even these people's problems? It's the worst thing to do in Zonguldak, and all over our country, to be sad and silent about the deaths of thousands of people. Members of parliament, the arrangement limits the rights given to the families of the mine martyrs from 2003 to 2014. The AKP is being so unfair again. What is the sin of those who died before or after 2003? Do the lawmakers of the AKP agree with even one of you that this arrangement is unfair? Why and how do you ignore accidents in your own country that have happened much more recently when you say, "This is what happens when there is no investigation." On March 3, 1992, did not the catastrophes of 263, 7 March 1983, have occurred in this country that we could not count as one by one? On the commission, we will redesign this clause. Are you preventing possible protests because of the anniversary of these disasters? We can't be a country where humanity is dead and consciences are silent. 149 billion dollars you've seen a lot of people out there, paying interest to people inside $689 billion, giving their parents the rights to a family of miners. In order to avoid paying taxes on this country, when you're being transferred millions of dollars from tax gardens to companies in Man Islands with a pound of capital, you're very skilled, and you're cheap enough to pay for $4 billion in imported stone coal a year, but you're cheap as a miner. According to our research, there are about 500 families who would benefit from this arrangement. The plan and Budget Commission meeting said that the arrangement for mine martyrs was limited only to those who lost their lives between 2003 and 14 years, which was wronged by the President and the Minister, and would be corrected by joint motion, which was not made. I offer this injustice to the conscience of all lawmakers in the House, with all due respect. By the way, I remember the great poet Veysel on the anniversary of his death, and celebrate the feast of Nevruz. With respect and love.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0135par0351	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0136par0352	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0135par0353	I'll call the number of decisions I need.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0136par0354	We never accept this clause.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit06spe0135par0355	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0135par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On Article 73 of the Law Bill 533, there was not enough decision in the vote of Zonguldak MP Şerafettin Turpcu and his friends. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'm going to vote with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes, and I'll start the process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The decision is sufficient, the motion is not accepted. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place. I now read the final motion on Article 73: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the amendment of Article 73 of the Bill of Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533, which are currently in session. İlknur İnceöz Aydın Ünal Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ali Cumhur Taşkın Halil Eldemir Özcan Uupınar The fifth joke of Article 66 of Law 73-5510 has been changed as follows. "A total person, if not one of the spouses and children of one of the spouses and children of the deceased for reasons mentioned in the first joke, will be employed in the permanent staff of public institutions and institutions without subject to the required legislation. An offer to appoint those who are to be employed is made by the state staff's presidency, as well as an offer to be appointed in case there is no working staff is offered, as well as a continuous employment tender, allocation and visa at the institution and organisation concerned. According to this joke, the identification of people who will benefit from employment rights, the procedures and principles related to the implementation of this clause and other conditions related to employment in these individuals are found jointly by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of State Staff, and the Undersecretary of Treasury. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0137par0020	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0135par0021	Government? We agree, sir. I'm reading the reason: Under Article 66 of Law 5510, the proposed amendment aims to ensure that one of the insurance people who died in the work accidents of coal and lignite mines in underground affairs will be hired directly as workers without subject to the conditions needed in the legislation of public institutions and corporations. I submit to your votes the commission's commendation, the government's participation in the First Enceöz and his friends' motion: those who agree... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes Article 73, those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 73 is accepted. There are two motions on article 74: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework text of Article 74 of the Bill of Law shall be changed in the following way. Zechariah Haziel Mahmoud Tanal Bulent Kuşoğlu Süleyman Yançar Ayata Yakup Akkaya Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu The following temporary clause has been added to the Law 74-5510. The first article of this Law (a) does not require that people who have not reached the age of 18 in accordance with the laws of this clause be covered by the laws of the law or children who have a right to the month be cut off if they are not 20 if they are taught high school and equal, if they are not up to 25 if they are taught high school. In accordance with the laws of this clause due to its work prior to the execution date, incomes and salaries of those who carry the terms specified in the last sentence of Article 34 of this Law shall be started and no payment shall be made for the income or the monthly commitment of those who make the request, starting at the beginning of the period of the date of which this item has entered into effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0138par0041	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0135par0042	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0139par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0135par0044	Minister Özkan Yım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0140par0047	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Court, my dear colleagues, I give you my regards and my regards to all the citizens who are watching us at this hour. Before we begin my words, I want to remember the great master, the great lover, the poet, the lover Veysel, who was lost 45 years ago, not with his eyes, but with his feelings. Yes, dear friends, I have made a promise of Article 74 of Bill 533. First of all, we agree on this clause, and I particularly want to share it. Dear friends, I would especially like to address all employers in my district, in the Butler area, and in Turkey. In Article 74, we have around 28 provinces that are supported in Turkey, so the employees they employ are concerned with personnel insurance. What does that mean, what's being held in article 74? If any of the employees you're employing have made or forgotten a mistake by your financial advisor, accountant or sworn counsel, you'll have a chance to undo it within the next three months, at most six months, so I'm speaking to all the employers here: see your accountant, your accountant, if there is a mistake in your system, and I'd like to share it with you in the coming months, especially here. Dear friends, very valuable lawmakers, after we've gone through this, last week and about three weeks before that, you know, we've had very important factories since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey for a month and a half now. You know, the first foundation of these factories is the Footman Sugar Factory, and there are 24 sugar factories that open with it. 14 of these, Mr. President, unfortunately, will start selling in April, starting privatisation. We are strongly opposed to the sale of factories that our own factories, our own citizens in the country, built on their own hard work. We're not the only ones against it, and the citizen is against it. I'm especially speaking to the AK PARTI chiefs here, and I'm speaking to the government, and I'm speaking to the Minister: Look, we're going to Usher, Afyon, Burdur, Kolya, Erzurum, Kars, Ağrı, Van, Mush, Elazığ, Tokat, Amasya, Corrum, Malatya, Kırşehir. We're here to talk to our citizens, NGOs. Madam Secretary, believe me, no one wants these factories sold. Even if you put 14 of these factories, these 14 factories, and even if you sell all 25 factories, you will save only $500 million in income in the budget. With $500 million, nothing changes. Plus, you're saying: these factories are being damaged, these factories are being sold because they're damaged. Believe me, these factories are a very funny number, you know, about 28 to 30 million dollars.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0141par0053	Most of them don't hurt.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0142par0054	Most of them don't hurt, most of them don't.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0140par0055	Some of them are hurting, now, to be honest, we know that, but in the sum of the factories that did the damage and the other factories that didn't do the damage, when we put them in the cumulation, there's absolutely no harm in that sum. So, for one thing, we're against selling these factories. Plus, our employees, our employees' rights. Look, besides, because of a lot of sales in the past -- like the Meat and Fish Foundation, like Sumerbank, after these businesses are sold -- believe me, 12 months, 18 months later, these workers are out of work. Besides, the most important thing is our farmers. What will our farmers do with their sugar beets? From now on, what will the farmer do after closing? Plus, you're saying that we're going to get five years of sugar beets produced by the farmer. Well, I want to ask you specifically from here, Mr. Minister: Is the farmer's life only five years? What's this farmer gonna do in five years? Five years later, shouldn't this farmer send his kid to school, his elementary school, his middle school kid, to college? How's he gonna live? So, certainly, we demand that you stop the sale of these factories at once; plus, people are asking for it. These people don't want you to sell these factories, I share that in particular. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like to ask you for one more moment. It's very important, please, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0143par0059	It's very important, give me a minute.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0144par0060	It's very important. It's vital.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0145par0061	We're not extending the motion, Mr. Eater.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0146par0062	But this is very important. This is the subject of the nation, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0145par0063	All right, finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0146par0064	Okay.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0145par0065	I'm afraid important matters are usually last. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0146par0067	Thank you, Mr. President. So, as a result, Mr. Secretary, it's not appropriate to sell these factories. None of the 21 counties we're going to go to -- 22 tomorrow -- have no NGOs or citizens asking for these factories to be sold. Besides, look, let's not sell these factories. Being a national isn't about selling factories. Being a national doesn't mean we're making what we're making for other people. Being a national isn't about taking hay from the outside. To be national, however, is to have Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who fought a hundred and three years ago and saved this country from the enemy, and I underline it. On the one hand -- in the last 20 seconds -- when we visit Van Ercish, when we visit the Van factory -- Mr. Minister, I especially want to show you and the Van MPs -- you see the state of the hospital in Van. You haven't finished the public hospital in 11 years, and believe this hospital, no one in this House is going to be treated. We demand that this hospital be taken care of immediately.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0072	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of those who are not up to 25 years old in Article 74 of the Common Law Bill 533 shall be changed in the form of those who are not up to 30 years old. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0148par0082	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0083	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0149par0084	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0085	I'm reading the reason: As proposed in Article 68 of the bill, students in higher education are expected to receive a monthly allowance by the age of 30, either from income or from children who are entitled to monthly access. Turkey has become full of unemployed university graduates. Therefore, we think it would be more appropriate for the death-period age limit to be increased in terms of higher education. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given to you on the grounds of the motion of the people who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 74th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions in Article 75: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 75 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0150par0098	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0099	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0151par0100	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0101	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Paylan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Congressmans, since you know the 66th Amendment of the Civil Code, I don't remind you very much, but please, we have a duty to stay on topic. Mr. Garo's already talking about it, and thank you for talking about it. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0152par0106	Now he's going to talk out of context.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0153par0107	Now, Mr. President, do I have to say this out of context? Don't do this.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0108	The Civil Code says it, I don't say it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0153par0109	Why remind me now if I'm talking about it?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0147par0110	No, no, I told you, you're talking about it. I'll reboot your time. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0154par0113	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. Dear friends, look at the contents of the bag, almost all 95 articles are designed to encourage employers. Because what do employers do? He's going to the Minister of Finance's door, my friend, when things are in trouble, give me more encouragement. He says, "Give me more encouragement." And when we look at the materials, it's all about that, my friends. And in the financing of this, look, the handicap is this: because budget resources are limited, the Finance Minister is taking another place to make it look like the budget is good. What's he doing? There's an unemployment fund, guys. There's $118 billion at the unemployment fund, the power is now taking over, and in the incentives of the employers, look, we're taking 18 billion from the employee's money, 18 quadrillion from the employee's fund, we're giving it to the employers. It's a choice, a political choice. So we call to our citizens here: "O millions of minimum-paying workers under the poverty line, almost all of them are -- our workers, our workers; they take your funding, this government takes it, and attracts it as an incentive to the employers. That's not true. If the government can afford it, if the government wants to network with the employers, let's make it out of the budget. We're against him, too. We're against it, friends: It's not right to give incentives only to employers because, look, workers are in trouble. The worker says I can't get through. The worker says I can't bring meat to my house once a month. The worker says I'm in debt. Now, if we give all the incentives to the employers and the large sections are in debt to the workers who are pulling all the weight of this community, the wheels won't turn in that country anyway. If we want the wheels to spin, we need to relax the wide range because we're a social government. Look what our Constitution says: the state of the Republic of Turkey is a social state. If we are a social state, we need to follow social policies and not pursue employers' money, friends. The matter -- you know -- is in a few articles -- says: Look, if you hire a worker, I'll pay one worker's money. The government says that minimum wage supports the employers and the additional employment is also on me. See, the minimum wage is cutting $18 billion off and transferring money to employers. Look, my dear friends, budget resources may be limited, but this is not the way to improve budget resources. From a world perspective, our country's perception is that we can't even hold on to the first league when we're aiming for the 1st league, and now we're crossing over as fourth league countries. It's a 4th-league country. Friends are our country, so there are no direct investments. What does the investor want? Go to the government's door and give me more encouragement. I don't pay taxes. You pay the worker, you deposit the employee's insurance, maybe I'll invest it here. This situation is unsustainable. Yes, at a certain period of time, with such palliative measures, you take over the unemployment benefit, you end it, but when that fund is over, what are you going to do? It can't be sustained because you can keep it going for a year, six months, three months, two years, but eventually, with a budget deficit and a current deficit, it's going to cause a major crisis. Guys, we need to get our heads together as soon as possible. Let's get our heads straight, let's show the world that our country is a state of law, let's run our institutions so that our people can look to the future with confidence, our people can look to the future, workers can't work under the poverty line, and the poverty line, and the widest segments, all together... you know, we're one of the most unhappy countries in the world. It's clear how far we've fallen in the happiness index. All of us, especially on these holiday days, let's not have such bitter holiday days, let's all win about happiness together, friends. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0155par0125	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The tax laws of 533 and of some laws and laws shall be reduced from the insurance premiums for which employers shall pay for the establishment, and this shall be the sum of the budget from January 2018 to September/referencing the budget from the Ministry of Ministers, which is covered by Article 5510, added to Article 5510 to Law No. 533. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Ancient Durmaz Necati Yilmaz Yakup Akkaya Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0156par0138	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0155par0139	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0157par0140	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0155par0141	Ankara MP Necati Yilmaz will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0158par0144	Mr. President, Mr. Court, members of the Council, I salute you. Respected lawmakers, one of the main problems in our country is unemployment; one of the four young people is unemployed. We are once again expressing that we are behind any project, any work, any thought, that will create employment through this reality, reduce unemployment, but, as in this arrangement, we suggest that you do your work by separating resources from the relevant places to satisfy such a need. Here, we do not see the right way for the unemployment fund to try to address this problem by funding it. I discussed this matter with Minister Zechariah Aziel. He said he talked about it in a long and thorough way during the commission process. So, what else should we say in the General Assembly? When I say, "Don't try to solve unemployment on the backs of the unemployed." He said, "Don't sacrifice the backs of the villagers." He said, "Maybe they'll understand him." That's what I'm saying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, today is March 21st. Today is the day that Veysel the Lover departed from us forty-five years ago. He expressed his life, his effort, his occupation, his cause for humanity. We honor him, and remember him as a friend. Congressmans, yes, today is March 21st. Today is the day of the resurrection of nature. Today is the birthday of Lord Ali. Today is the day of awakening and resistance, symbolised by the Blacksmith Gâve. Today is the day of the rainbows' salvation and hope. Today is the day of peace and brotherhood, where all the peoples of our Anatolian people have enjoyed different historical myths and narratives and feasted together. So let's celebrate this day in every language. Happy Nevruz, my friends. Congressmans, today is March 21st. Today, Turkey is in a state of scandal. And today is a historic day. There was a president of a high court, a Chief of State, who took tea trips with the head of the executive two years ago. This incident was very controversial that day. Now the example of that president's daughter is being told an unprecedented success story. Whether it's lucky or gracious, this girl's story is being told. He started out as Prime Minister's Office for Press and Public Relations, then became an expert in the Presidential Department of Laws and Decisions, dominated by 54 points when the HSYK returned to HSK, was assigned to Elazığa, was appointed as a judge of the Judiciary Court without serving in this place for 24 hours. This is being said, Turkey is shaking with this news. (HPP) It is argued that the chief of the Supreme Court is looking for a bone marrow in his robe in front of the president of his tea tours. If this news is true, it's a scandal, dear friends. We all have a right to know the truth of this matter, dear friends. I'm calling from here to the president of the Supreme Court, come and tell me what's really going on here. Come, stop this matter from being debatable. Come, if you cannot contribute more to the honor of the judiciary with your understanding of this manner, do no more harm to the judiciary with your presence, resign from this office, my dear friends. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, one call to Mr. President, and I say to him, the members of the court are not your bureaucrats. I'm saying that by creating images like February 28th at the presidential residence, which has now become a political position, you should stop rounding up judges and adjusting yourselves to the judiciary. I don't know if you have that kind of concern, Mr. President, but I'm telling you, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't. And I say to him again: We see that where no one has any confidence in the judiciary, those who have made the judgment unreputed have no confidence in the judiciary. In the order given to the candidates of the judge, they say: "Please consult with us before deciding on the court and the prosecutor's investigations. Again, start your investigations on the basis of 17-25. " In a nutshell, they're concerned, concerned, insecure about the judiciary, and I'm telling you, dear friends, that there is no more will in the fight against the enemy. Contrary to the president's remarks, Shamil Tayyar says: "The stock market has been established, and the businessmen who have given billions of dollars are being evacuated under the name of. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In a nutshell, the AKP has managed to turn its investigations into a means of profit, dear friends, I congratulate you. [[!]] I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0159par0157	Thank you very much. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I now submit the 75th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on the 76th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the 76th Amendment of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533, which are currently in session. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Kazim Arslan Ancient Durmaz Yakup Akkaya The first joke of Article 4 of Article 5520 (b) was mine (e) and the ninth joke of Article 17 was removed from effect. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0160par0172	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0159par0173	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0161par0174	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0159par0175	It's Denizli MP Kazim Arlen who wants a word on the motion. Mr. Arslan, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0162par0178	Mr. President, we're negotiating with the valued lawmakers, Tax Code 533, and the Bill of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. I made a promise on the 76th Amendment of this bill. I salute you all with love. Under this arrangement, Article 4 (ö) of Article 5520 of the Tax Act is being removed. In addition, Article 17 (9) of the same law has been abolished. Of course, it's important that this joke is removed, but it's removed because it transferred it to Tax Law 213. Thus, while doing the right job, the tax bill 213 continues to be wrong, however, by transferring this clause to it. Dear lawmakers, there are some innovations, some changes in this bill, but I don't think these changes, these innovations, will contribute very much to our economy. We see a period when the market in every area was difficult, everyone had trouble turning their jobs, paying their rent, paying their debts, especially from our stuck workers to our farmers, our farmers, to our farmers, to our industrialists, to our exporters. If you look at a painting like this: the government's debt rose to $2242 billion Turkish dollars in 2002 when you were in charge, and now it's up to 876 billion Turkish liras today. The stockpile of domestic debt was 149.9 billion Turkish liras in 2002, while it rose to 535 billion Turkish liras as of December today. You say you're against interest, but I want you to know that the interest has been paid 708 billion Turkish liras by now. So in an economic scheme like this, in a system like this, it turns out that you're acting with them, not against interest dealers, but against the interest lobby. Now, here we go again: public debt per capita increased to $3,677 Turkish lira in 2002, while as of December 2017, it increased to $10,981 Turkish lira. The private sector's external debt appears to have increased from $43 billion in 2002 to around $307 billion in December 2017. Once again, when we look at the transactions guaranteed by the treasure -- the treasure guarantee of 10 billion 872 million dollars in 2010 -- we see that you have given $960 million to the Eurasia Tunnel in 2017, $2 billion to the North Marmara Highway, $2,738 million to the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Highway, $4 billion 956 million to the North Marmara Highway-Odayeri. So, where you're going to find them, how you're going to find them, how you're going to pay for them in the future, that's not clear. We've been critical lately, saying that the economy isn't going well. There's an explanation for Moody, and we say that our rating, or credit rating, is down; there is no such thing for sure. Our Finance Minister objects, denies. Now, look, 17 banks are being rated; 14 banks are actually downgraded, and there's nothing done about three banks, and there's even Sugarbank in there. So I think it's important to respect the assessment of this credit rating agency, to take precautions, to reassemble the economy accordingly. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like to ask you one more minute, because we're explaining the numbers.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0163par0189	If you explain them in the first place, you won't be in trouble, and we won't be in trouble.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0162par0190	I'm running out, I'm running out, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0163par0191	Please, finish it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0162par0192	Dear MPs, now, the Finance Minister must take this credit rating agency's work seriously, so he must take seriously the decline of our rating from Ba1 to Ba2. We are in a time when the wheels in the economy are not spinning, the troubles are increasing, and the citizens are struggling and trying to save their day. We've got a farmer in debt, we've got a worker, we've got a peasant, we've got to figure out what's wrong with them. We need to support them; I want to tell them that in order for them to live, for them to work, for the tradesman to win, for them to actually need these supports to run his shop. This is how I finish my words, and I salute you with love.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0163par0195	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 76th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I submit the 77th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the third section are complete. We will now begin the talks of section four. Chapter four includes 78 to 96, including temporary matter 1. The first word for the groups on the fourth chapter is from Antalya MP Mehmet Günal. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Mr. Günal, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0164par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. My dear friends, this very volume of legislation has a lot to do with it. When we look at the general reason, the issues that our friends talk about in opposition and general talk about, really, in different areas of the economy, they refer to a lot of issues such as production, employment, investment, exports, energy, energy efficiency. This section also includes a number of issues related to these issues, energy-based, times of some beings, privatisation, education. Before I go into these matters, I say, first, I celebrate the Day of Nevruz of the Turkish world, the symbol of our coming out of Ergenekon, our resurrection, our unity, our prosperity. Of course, there's a lot to talk about here, but the reason I'm referring to the general reason is because... there's been a lot of talk about the investment environment that's been done there, and there's been talk about the innovation activities, and there's been talk about the incentives to the RD, but in this last chapter, especially about energy efficiency, there's some arrangements for our company to do about nuclear energy and energy markets. From the past to today, we said that Turkey should have a national energy strategy, and that within that scope, there should be some localization, nationalization efforts. In this case, the Ministry has made specific statements, especially in a study of renewable energy, but we cannot see enough of them. At once, in nuclear energy studies, we think it's true that it's true that it's a country that has achieved its independence in terms of coal, which is alternative to natural gas, with some RD studies and environmentally sensitive technologies, but on the other hand, it's going to reduce Turkey's dependence on energy, in the middle, in the long term, in line with its vision of the 2053 leading country, and it's going to be able to vary from local energy sources into a country that has given its ability and has given its ability to create addiction. On the one hand, the study of energy efficiency, of course, has to be supported by awareness, beyond awareness training, as well as by RD studies. It's true to explain some strategies, but it needs to be continued and implemented. Therefore, serious surveillance must be carried out. In this scope, especially in all these areas, in the general areas, in the areas that are said in general, in the five-year development plan that we've discussed in the past years, in the five-year development plan that is now in effect, there are many measures in the special admissions commission reports, and again, all of the primary transformation areas that we've talked about here, but when we look at it, unfortunately, we don't get enough investments in the sense that we want, and we don't get the incentives for them at the level we want. So we need to review these setbacks in the application, because we're getting further and further away from the numbers we set at 2023 targets. To do so, we need to continue these structural measures with these studies. Some of the necessary arrangements can be made, but as a matter of fact, I think some of the work from the practice should be completed as soon as possible. There were some studies here -- speaking of that RD -- of course, we've got work going on right now, about the national supply system outside of nuclear energy, explaining that some of the ammunition, the equipment used during the execution of Operation Olive Branch, was domestic, but we can't see enough of them. It's not just that the ammunition there is domestic, it's that we need to prioritize in technology, space and industrial technology, some missile work, some aviation work, and let's reduce the dependency and provide ourselves with a more national supply system. In this scope, we also need to get rid of external dependency in the space industry, in other words, in the multinational defense industry, not just nuclear-related work, but also in the space industry, because one of the measures says: let's increase costs, reduce deficits. We need to prioritize those high-tech areas that require high-tech technology for us to do that. We've passed laws about them in the past about RD centers. Mr. Secretary will remember that, again, the Ministry of Development had its priorities, and there were other ministries, but after these laws came out, some follow-up shows that there are shortcomings in the feedback that came to us, and we think that if there are reorganisations in the application, they need to be reviewed. Beyond that, of course, dear friends, there are some articles here concerning the age of ownership of the General Directorate of Foundations. In addition, the Ministry of National Education still has certain arrangements, including the articles. Now that I've found them both, I'd like to bring you back to what I've been saying for years. Here, a property transfer to minority foundations was made, a list was made, but in the past years, in the middle of Istanbul, in Şishli, in the middle of the school -- if I say "technical and vocational campus" -- was passed over something that was left over from the past years. Following our objections with the Ministry of National Education, there was a protocol, one third of the land was saved. Mr. Undersecretary, although we have repeatedly told the ministers, unfortunately, four times, after five re-processions, the National Education Directorate has been renovating this license. Now, I'm telling all of the ministers, but right here, there's a foundation and there's an arrangement for national education, dear friends. There's a way to pass it on with the law, but on the other hand, there's an arrangement in favor of the private company, with the reverse arrangements, with the licenses, without finishing school. And while we're doing it here, it's not right to set it up with the law, but on the other hand, it's just a statement in the regulation based on a single statement that's been handed down to other foundations, and we're putting it in the law. These things need to be done in a uniform way, otherwise that complex is gone now. On the one hand, we call them "AR-Ge," we call them innovative, from the other side we call them non-interferents, increase employment. But on the contrary, we make such an arrangement without considering the campus and workshops of these schools that develop intermediaries in technical, technical and vocational education. So, without causing these oxymorons, yes, let's do the necessary work, and if there's anything that's deserved, we'll give them back their rights, but we need to make arrangements to protect a number of RD centers that have been built there from the past, where the kids are internshiping, and the workshops there. As the National Movement Party, we said that we would always stand by such structural arrangements. But if it stays in the plan, as I just said, we're almost done with the five-year plan, we're working on a new one, but we still haven't put some of the transformation programs into action. Therefore, we need to come here at once and get rid of the vicious strife -- as I mentioned in the beginning -- today we celebrate the Festival of Nevruz -- to ensure our unity, to ensure that we look to the future with hope, to carry out structural arrangements, reforms together. We need to move to a production structure that creates employment, move to an economic programme that generates, and then we need to increase these domestic and national investments in order to reduce the high-tech, high-velocity, our country's external dependency, and, as the general reason is said, increase our savings. In space and aviation, in other weapons supply systems and in high-tech areas, 2023 are so close to their destinations, and then after our goals on the 100th anniversary of the republic, these efforts must be carried out quickly so that the conquest can become regional power later on the 600th anniversary of Turkey. So, in general, we support these needs to be done in general, but we think that some issues need to be reconsidered -- as well as in what our friends have stated -- should be done in terms of public interest, as well as in the sense of rights. Other than that, all structural measures say that we will continue to support social, economic measures reform efforts as the National Movement Party, wishing that the bill be good luck, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit07spe0165par0215	Thank you. I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit08spe0165par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0165par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 75th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place. The second word for the groups on the fourth chapter is for the Republican People's Party Group and for the People's Party Group to whom it belongs, Khakat MP Ancient Durmaz (Admir Durmaz). Mr. Durmaz, please. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0166par0008	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my party on the fourth part of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to Tax Laws 533 rows and Some Laws and Legislatures. I salute the High Council. Of course, it's packed with a bag of laws again, the High Council. The unchanging bag of law tradition was brought before us by a 95-point law. Purpose is to contribute to development in this country; intent is to end people's poverty in this country; intent is to reduce the distribution of revenues between regions in this country; intent is to improve the environment in which more than 400,000 teachers have finished schooling in this country, education and teaching in this country; intent is to bring another perspective to the nuclear plant in which they are ready to teach; intent is to be able to express their thoughts freely on the Internet, to be able to broadcast and research and to improve the right to gather some information. And again, when we look at this country, without enough expert subcommittees of negativity, we're going with this bag of laws, and we're getting tired and tired of having to do the same thing all the time, like we're rushing to the conclusion of a bag of law tradition, and we're going to get the same results. As far as Erzurumlu is concerned, good things always go in Erzurum. I went, and I saw, and I saw. As Caesar said, I have come, I have seen, I have conquered, I have seen, I have seen, I have seen, I have seen.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0167par0011	Erzuruma doesn't even go to the train.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0166par0012	But in many of our country's geography, it's not going well. You know, it's called balance, there's no balance. We're looking at populations, a handful of people in cities that don't have a finger in their hand, poverty has increased, crime has increased in these provinces, drug age has dropped to the age of 10...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0168par0013	What are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0166par0014	...the number of people who are desperate is based on statistics, but we still think we're going to get the right results with the old habits we've tried; we don't have a chance, friends. The basic way is to do things that have been done, tried and achieved in countries where democracy is first class in the world, which can use human basic rights and freedoms enough. The main reason for this is not the majority's rights to the minority, but by protecting the minority of the majority, by caring for them, by listening to them, by hitting the NGOs, but by actually reading their professional rooms, civil society organisations, by correctly reviewing the components of this society, by creating a right path map with ideas and opinions that we get from them. We all know we've been traveling on the same ship, and no one can argue otherwise. We want to contribute to every political party here, every NGO, occupational suites, producers, irrigation troops, and everyone in this community, an honorable citizen of this country and this country. But what's missing? What's missing is the error of the government that continues to make mistakes in this country, stating that he's won the choices that bind everything to the chest, and that he's made, and many of our friends know it. It's the easiest way to reduce a lot of laws to Parliament without rushing enough debates on the relevant fellowship commissions, without the opinion of relevant NGOs, that's now looking for solutions to the bag of laws that are above all of our capacity. Friends, if we care a little bit about civil society and people who don't think like you, we can bring this country to its rightful place, where people are able to make peace with each other again, love each other, embrace each other, embrace each other, be a proud citizen of this country. I'm a proud citizen of this country, who shouts at people in this country, and we can make our country a happy, respectable country in the world. Look, in order to improve the investment climate, our government is opening doors to the investor who lives in this country. It does, but friends, this state-generated industrialist... a product can be marketed and sold with good relationships. We have now broken down our diplomatic relations with many countries around the world, our one-on-one relations, our ancient relations from history, to the ground. What is expected of us, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is to make peace in the home and in the world, to sell what we have produced with countries around us, thinking about the industrialist, the businessman in this country, the manufacturer, the COBI, everyone who set high goals with their crafts. But we're looking at it, when the government's planning something, they're unaware of each other, but one of the last words comes out, and the next day, the bag comes in, and the law is law, and we can't get any distance, my friends. Our budget starts at 35 percent at the beginning of the year. Our esteemed Minister of Finance boasts that this is a little obvious, it won't cut us off much from financial discipline. Guys, things are getting worse and worse than you know. I ask you, you all have relatives, you have business acquaintances: does anyone smile at a government that has been ruled by a single power for 16 years, which has enjoined all that he's thought of, by implementing the great Parliament? No. When we say how's your job? The tradesman says that until a few years ago we were on the sidelines with what we were saving, but now there's nothing on the corner, and the debt limit in banks is over our height. And the number of people added to the blacklist is increasing every day. Again, he said, "Can a new side road be opened? " So I gave him our Commissioner's phone and our Finance Minister's phone. Turkey's rosebud... you know, there used to be shows on TV for five minutes, and before the kids went to sleep, there was a sweet grandma, and she was telling a story. I said, let's hear these stories from the Minister. Guys, we don't run well. Human basic rights and freedoms are rapidly narrowed down where democracy will lead, and there are many examples in this bag. If he can keep broadcasting in the online environment, like the sword of Damocles, if he can't deter them from punishment, closure, part of the judiciary -- we don't get taxes from the ads -- we want to shut him down by trial. Friends, whatever's going on in this country, in this country, whatever's going on in this country, if you can't open the channels of sharing freely with your citizens, announcing it, democracy in this country won't develop, and the investment climate in this country won't improve. It's all about good relationships, the implementation of diplomacy, and going over those layers that feed on the founding values of this country. If your intention, your purpose, is to move this country to one place, consider our precious proposals absolute and absolute. I'm giving, I'm giving, I'm giving." he says. Friends, the SMEs are supported, the number of people applying is quite high, they can't get the number explained, even if it's just a small number. Why? They're not all well, they've had a bad record with the banks. There are some things that are not very nice about those who can, and we don't want to believe them. So, the way to do that is to open the news channels freely, have a transparent state. Every day, there will be a Republic of Turkey that will give confidence to a single power, and we will continue to live in a country that has been banned, given privileges to one another, and that the Constitution of this country has been ignored by another, the lower courts. This is really hurting us, but I'm saying it should hurt and hurt the conscience of the AK PARTI government more than it should of us. I'm saying it's in this country's best interest to take these warnings into consideration. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0169par0024	Thank you. The last word on behalf of the groups belongs to İstanbul MP Garo Paylan, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0170par0028	Mr. President, my dear friends, as a member of the Plan and Budget Commission, I've been dealing with the same bag for 45 days. It's been 45 days. We've discussed these 95 articles in the Budget Commission in close to three weeks, and I believe this is the third or fourth week, friends, in the General Assembly. 95 articles, dozens of different laws, a bag for dozens of different ministries, not bags, sacks. Believe me, in understanding matter, what was it? Which one is he? What did he bring? We find it hard to understand. I'm sure the government's having a hard time with a 95-point bag. Look, we've replaced our 10th Minister of Education as we discuss this bag, our 10th Minister of Education. He's gonna try to figure it out, though it's got his signature on it, so I'm sure he's a judge. But we can't control them all, and believe me, our heads are in bags. I suggest to the government that you come not in these 95-point bags, but not in palliative measures, but in structural measures. Let's discuss each subject at the residency commissions, let's bring the quality of legislation into play. Without the quality of legislation, my two-and-a-half-year experience tells me that in the Plan and Budget Commission -- because everything goes through there -- believe me, in these two and a half years, we've been over and over and over again. The law we passed two years ago, Mr. Secretary, we're fixing it again two years later because it has no quality of legislation, my friends. Don't expect the quality of living with bags like this and sacks like this. Now, we've moved on to the last part of this bag, folks, and in the last part, there are two very critical substances, very critical friends. One is Internet censorship. When the government was first in power, I will save the country from three things in 2002. He said: Corruptions: the situation is clear. Poverty: Unfortunately, poverty... because we're still under the poverty limit at minimum wage, let alone the poverty limit. More than 80 per cent of the workers are currently trying to maintain their homes with a income below the poverty line. Third, the bans: I will eliminate the bans. He came saying, "It's the AKP's power." Yes, he's taken some steps, and let's give him his rights, but something that we've already gotten used to for three generations, a part of which was a relief, believe me, when we went to Dimyat to the rice, we also became the finder. Let alone step forward in the matter of bans, we are faced with bans in the last three years, in the 1990s, or even in a place where the Universe will search its days of fascism. Now, what does this stuff bring, guys, on the Internet censorship? Look, I'm reading... it's called the Radio and Television Oversight Board, and it's called the Radio and Television Supreme Board. What you've done to the unsatisfactory radio and television today... you've added three media outlets to the pool, in that big pool; you've already had three media outlets; you've already had lieutenants there, CNN, Channel D, Channel D, you've got press commissioners inside Hurriyet, they've already decided who's not going on TV and who's not going on, and now they're running the pool, and they're selling CNN, Channel D, and Hurriyet to a group that's more. Look, you've got dozens of newspapers, you've got television, they all say the same thing, they all say, "Long live the padishah." All of them. Yeah, well, three institutions already say, "Long live the Padişah." Why do you let an industrial group and you have another group of supporters to make you scream more? The Radio and Television Oversight is supposed to be overseeing them. There's nothing left to check, and they all say, "Long live my padishah." Now, that leaves our Internet space. There's a partial freedom in the Internet field. Everyone there is trying to reach citizens in their own efforts, social media, other media media media media, their own publications; everyone, not only MPs, politicians, but everyone is trying to express themselves through social media. Power has seen too much of this area. He's trying to create a full mobilization, he's trying to get the country to be completely quiet, and for that, he's going to have to take over the Internet space. And he says: "I will authorise the Radio and Television Supreme Council, I will inspect the Internet area." Now, perhaps in a little while, the representatives of power will say: "No, friend, I will only supervise Master Adnan." When we look at the rhetoric of matter, it predicts a license for any online publication. Now he's going to say, "No, individual publications aren't like that." He says: "All kinds of platforms, all kinds of broadcasting platforms.." Or, look, if I did a broadcast here, I would have to go to one of the platforms you know, and get a license from the Radio and Television Oversight. All of this, my friends, will also contain the Internet space. I'm saying don't hold out on this road. Don't shut down the last remaining freedom zone. Don't let our country fall into the North Korean League, my friends. Look, Mr. Secretary, we're in a country that banned Wikipedia. Yeah, well, there's an international portal where our young people, me, all of us, can get information, Wikipedia's been banned for two years. We can't tell anyone Wikipedia is forbidden. YouTube can be shut down tomorrow with this stuff, youTube. There is a video that criticises Erdoğan. When RTÜK runs to the media, you can ban YouTube as soon as your fellow journalists in that pool yell.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0171par0033	YouTube isn't a platform, it's not a platform, you know that, you know that.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0170par0034	No, it isn't, sir. It can be interpreted, it can be expanded very easily.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0171par0035	Garo, we've been through all this, and you know it's not.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0170par0036	Netflix may be banned. It says "Platform" Mr. President, it says "platform." Netflix is a platform, a broadcast platform. It says here, Mr. President, come and claim otherwise. Netflix is a broadcast platform. What if we become a country that banned Netflix tomorrow, banned YouTube, which could happen, any interpretationable substance? Our country's gonna be in a major North Korean league. I say we don't let that happen, fellas. Another critical ingredient, friends with nuclear power plants. Look, we made a nuclear power plant deal with the Russians in 2010 and the Japanese in 2013. We always opposed it in those days. Don't make our country a nuclear country. We said we don't need a nuclear power plant. We said that nuclear power plants kill, but you didn't listen. You signed a deal with the Russians, the Japanese, because we were getting long-term electricity from 12.5 cents that day. Look, eight years have passed since our deal with the Russians, and as a result of technological advances, wind and solar energy are costing much less, my friends. Last year, we negotiated a long-term tender for 5-6 cents in the wind and the sun. Look, the nuclear was 12.5 cents, and you insist. But now, because investors are Russians, I don't know what pregnancies are, now that I've opened the airspace in Afrin, I've given you the way, I've created a heroic story for you, you'll use it in the election, and the price is $5 billion. If Putin's cut off this thing, look, Putin wants another $5 billion worth of free money. He's made the nuclear power plant deal for 12.5 cents, and he's guaranteed us 20 years, that's not enough. We're pregnant. Putin says, "You'll give more." What's he doing with this stuff? The government puts a few billion dollars more incentive ahead of Putin. So we say, "Friend, you put in this incentive, and what do you get in return, and what do we get? Now, as members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, we're meeting here as the chosen ones, aren't we, an international agreement? We say, "O Putin, I give you a few billion dollars more. " Now, I ask you, Duma, does the Russian Parliament discuss this?" In the Russian Parliament right now, Turkey is giving us a few billion dollars in advance, and in return, we're dropping it to eight cents instead of 12.5 cents. Does it have a call? No, we're seeing each other. These incentives can be given. We don't say, look, look, look at the speech of the matter, we say, "It's okay." We're paying a few billion dollars for it, but the Russian Parliament isn't discussing it, friends. Won't Turkey's Grand National Assembly question that? Aren't we going to question him, friends, question the rights of the undaunted orphan? We're talking billions of dollars. We don't know what's going on, what's being taken, what's being given. There's billions of dollars going around in a bag for the Plan and Budget Commission. But he should have come to the residency commission on this matter, the Minister of Energy should have come and briefed it, and, friend, I give billions of dollars, but instead of buying energy for my country, instead of 12.5 cents, I get 7 cents, 8 cents. None of this has been said, my friends. I don't believe this House will pass this clause, and if it does, it'll be on your neck. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0172par0042	Thank you. The first word for the individuals is from Adana MP Muharrem Varlı. Dear Varli, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0173par0047	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This law consists of a lot of materials, and it contains a lot of different issues -- facilitating the industry's investment, tax reductions, agreements, etc., and so on, but many of our fellow lawmakers have said their part in the matter and said what they wanted to contribute, and said what needed to be done. However, while Mr. Minister of National Education is already here... we'll be pleased if we can increase the number of non-assigned teachers... while I've just been called by a brother of ours... who's just finished school, who's become a teacher, who's become a teacher, who's not a teacher, but who's been appointed. He said, "Mr. Minister, while he's there." Again, there is a bill of 50-something articles in the Agricultural, Forestry and Village Affairs Commission concerning irrigation troops and the control of water basins. I don't think he's been briefed enough here, Mr. President. Mr. President, if this is told, I think Mr. President will be convinced that the irrigation troops are not to be shut down. The irrigation troops are a unit that serves in favor of the farmer. Yeah, don't they have bad employees? Of course, they have bad employees, but they also have 70 percent of their own irrigation units, who can sustain themselves, afford their staff, water them at the water plant, and have no debt to the state, and have been established by law here, even during this period of government, the EC PARTI administrations. Now, the irrigation troops are being asked to be shut down, that's not true, my dear friends, we must not shut down the irrigation troops, the irrigation troops must continue their mission. But we set a criteria, we can close down those who are below that criteria, none of us have any objection, and the farmer has no objection, and the irrigation troops have no objection. *Ya, the heads of irrigation troops live in luxury, living in luxury like this. They use the interests of watering troops in their favor. Such views are being put forth. If there is, let's go for it, let's do it. I mean, what institution in Turkey doesn't use things to its advantage? So let's shut down the municipalities. So if we go with that logic, we'll have to shut down the municipalities, too. It's not the right logic. Watering troops for the farmer's benefit. If the irrigation troops are shut down, the most farmers and peasants will suffer. I'm speaking as a farmer, my dear friends, the head of the irrigation union or whatever, I don't care about the management of the watering company, and this one, the only part that interests me is the farmer. Mr. Group, I explained today to our Vice President Mustafa Elitaş Bey. Indeed, when the irrigation units are shut down, the DSI's officer arrives at 8:00 a.m., sir, when he says five o'clock in the evening, he pulls out, but the chief of the irrigation unit has to follow it until twelve, one o'clock, even twelve, one o'clock in the morning. Why? Because the farmer chooses. If he can't get the farmer's water, the farmer won't choose him again. The farmer chooses the assembly of the irrigation unit, the farmer chooses the president of the irrigation union, the farmer chooses the commissioner of the irrigation unit. Therefore, there are peasants and farmers involved. If we want to protect the peasants and farmers' rights, we need to keep the irrigation troops alive. I mean, because some people want to, because they want some power, Mr. President, and I believe that if I were to explain, Mr. President would be convinced of that, but we shouldn't shut down the irrigation troops. We must not entrust the future of the farmer to the bureaucrats of the DSI. I just told you, at twelve o'clock at night, we're looking for the chief of the irrigation unit, we're looking for the general secretary, my brother, who didn't go to that village, please, send your staff, for God's sake, to make some more water. If the water is one day late in the corn, and the water is two days late, you'll lose 500 kilos to the turn of the century. If a week of water is late in cotton, you'll lose 100 kilograms.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0174par0052	They import, they import.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0173par0053	We can't deal with a public servant. We have to do it with the chosen people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] For God's sake, I beg you, let's go over this again and please decide in favor of the farmer. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0175par0058	Thank you, Mr Varli. On behalf of the individuals, the second and final speaker is Erzurum MP İbrahim Aydemir. Mr. Aydemir, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0176par0062	Dear President, I salute the General Assembly in your presence. And while we're at it, I'm celebrating your holiday. The spirit belongs to us, a feast which speaks of us; a day of renewal, a day of rebirth; a day for our unity and our presence. I've made a commitment to chapter four of the bill we're negotiating. It's a section 19 clause. This section, with a large number of substances in the name of making it much more viable, really puts the vital importance ahead of us. One of them is the notion of energy performance. According to this, energy performance contracts will have to guarantee energy savings after the project. Moreover, it provides an arrangement to ensure that the expenses made in these contracts will be paid in future savings. Again, there is another reflection of the white style based on efficiency in each field: Public institutions are also allowed to get an energy performance contract -- in order to provide a settlement. These are remarkable breakthroughs. Again, there is an absolute truth, a record, to the world of literature. A few of my friends just did a review. But with it, a whole community will breathe a sigh of relief. A neglected gap in the jurisdiction of the Radio and Television Oversight. We talked about it in detail at the Plan and Budget Commission, and there's an atmosphere of persuasion out there, but when you get here, it's like they haven't talked about it all over again, and it's like it hasn't been discussed there, and it's not. The truth is that sanctions and monitoring conditions for conventional broadcasting approach will now be valid for online broadcasts. There will no longer be a back-to-back approach to the situation in which sanctions are being dealt with. Can you imagine that programs that don't go into the normal stream of broadcasting that's being recorded and will free our social structure are injected into society through the Internet channel. An ignorant citizen is rightly allowed to do so in a segregation in the form of "How is it allowed? " However, this is literally about cheating the way it is. That won't be an opportunity anymore. Anyone who wants to broadcast online will now have to get a publishing license from RTÜK. And in that case, he won't be able to take the position that violates the broadcast rules, which is what he thinks he wants. My dear friends, we all have a truth to accept. Now they're screens, smartphones, the Internet, that are much more effective for our children than mother, father, teacher. If so, the 84th article recorded in this chapter is very, very important, much more valuable than its importance.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0177par0068	In this chapter, I have made a motion in Article 80, which is important.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0176par0069	I hope he doesn't have to go to work for the rest of us for the rest of the time. The controls, even if the keys are in unconscious hands, they're not going to turn into a moral destruction team anymore. We always say, we say, we say that no one should have the right to put dynamite under the values that make us who we are. Serious sanctions must and will be applied for programs that disregard our traditions, ignore national discipline and decentness approaches. Another special version of this section, I'll close it down with a note: it's a repair clause for vehicles that are more than 16 years old. There was a great expectation in society, that the discount in the SVU, which was paid for buying new vehicles in the event of being destroyed, will be around $10,000 from now on, and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Finance will work together. Every occasion we make a note that people plot the course for us, the white political approach. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Every change we make is done by the attempt to renovate and by the signs we receive from here. Hopefully, these provisions will allow our nation to live on a much more refreshing ground. With all due respect, I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0178par0076	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. So the talks on the episode are complete. Now, I'm going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. I'll use half that time for questions and half for answers. Mr. Wellercuoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0179par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, it is not permitted to sell these goods despite the extradition of those who have rented their non-moving property into the construction of Å. This leads to the victimization of individuals. These sacrifices need to be resolved as soon as possible. Second: After the coup attempt on July 15th, it is known that people who served in many levels of the state, especially public institutions, were unjustly arrested, dismissed, or suspended for false reports, slanders and so on. Despite being exonerated by court rulings, they are still struggling to return to their jobs, not returning to their jobs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're waiting for the solution to this problem as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0180par0085	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0181par0086	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, street lighting in our Düzce districts and districts is insufficient, so the streets in Düzce central streets and districts are not light enough. Indoor lighting in the villages of Düzce province is not enough, and the villages are not illuminated. The village routes in the District of Düzce are insufficient in the center of Düzce Province and the districts of Düzce. The mayor and governor are not promoting our city in terms of tourism. There's nature in our plain province, there's the sea, there's the mountain, there's the forest, there's the greenness; we can't attract tourism there. So I'm asking you, Düzce Governor, Düzce Municipality, and Ministry Düzce. Thank you. My regards and regards.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0182par0090	Mr. Division...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0183par0091	Minister, the services of the mayoral municipalities and district municipalities, which have been forced to produce a large service for geography following the Allecity Act, are also failing to cut their income. According to the Law on Payment of General Budget Tax revenues to County Special Administrations and municipalities, the amount cut per month by 2% of tax revenues to be distributed by the Finance Ministry and the Bank of Provinces each month must be reduced to one per cent of the financial burden on municipalities. In accordance with Article 19 of the Law on Development Agencys 5449, the ratio of the shares they will transfer to development agencies through budget revenues has to be reduced to 5 per thousand to 2 per thousand. A reduction of membership dues paid to the Turkish Co-Cities Association should also be reduced from a thousand to a thousandth of a thousandth to one percent, allowing municipalities to produce a comfortable service for our citizens. I hope that the government will consider these matters concerning all municipalities.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0184par0095	Mr. Green instead of Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0185par0096	Minister, why did the FATHIH Project, launched in 2011 by the Ministry of National Education to ensure more effective use in learning IT technologies, the equality of opportunities in education, fail? By the end of 2017, the FATHIH Project, which was questioned by the use of resources, has the Minister's decision to distribute keyboards instead of tabled computers. What happened, what did you do about it? Did you leave 1 million 438 thousand tablets from communications operators to rot in warehouses? How much damage has the government done? What criteria are the keyboardized computer selection based on? Has there been a full investigation? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0184par0098	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0186par0099	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Giresun, where the Heresun are producing intense energy, do you plan to go on discounting electricity bills in the environment, sea, water resources, natural environment, and human life, in part, in terms of taking part of the cost out of the companies, in the districts, towns and villages, the local tradesmen, industry and organised industrial areas? Would you consider removing the tax on all citizens' electricity bills for the TRT? You're forcing people to tax you, even though TRT doesn't publish side-by-side and neutrally. Is that justice? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0187par0103	Mr. Özdemir instead of Mr. Köse...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0188par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I've prepared a question for him, considering our Minister of National Education is on duty. Our teachers are not happy with the contract teaching practice, Minister. At a point when the request for a family union was not really met, they strongly made some demands for us. When they were both under contract teacher status, yes, they were given the right to transfer, but when there was no side, they said they were in great trouble. Is it possible for a six-year contract teacher to apply incentives to teachers instead of employment to do more work in the southeast, in the east? I'd like to ask you if it's possible for the government to plan such a cost. Is there going to be a marriage situation here for contract teachers, a right to a co-appointment in the short term? And then there was this reaction, Mr. Secretary... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now, one night, when judges were assigned from east to west, there was a reaction for contract teachers. I'd like to bring this to your attention. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0189par0110	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0190par0111	I'm asking the Prime Minister: One: The Agriculture Bank is delaying the loans by three per cent per year in 2017, while agricultural loans apply a high interest rate by adding 9 per cent to 3 per cent. Why is that? Will you give me an order to fix this mistake? Two: Undetermined cuts are being made during the payment of agricultural benefits. What's with all the interruptions? Three: Why has support for our leaders farmers, for good agriculture, for certified medical aromatic plants, reduced to 50 Turkish liras per cent to 100 Turkish liras per head, and for what reason? Four: The agricultural bank supports the plunger pump, sprinkler and drip. Do you think we should get solar energy support to start the diver pump? Five: You have promised your prime minister and ministry diesel support. When will you fulfill your promise to buy half of us and half of you? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0191par0118	Mr. Pineak, I'll give you my word, too, after that, to the Minister.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0192par0119	Thank you. Minister, on February 13, 2017, I said there was a drinking water problem in the Dove village of Şanlıurfa Siverek. Minister Nihat Zeybekci said on that day that this was a disgrace to our government. He said that he would follow it. According to the citizens, there's been a projecting and bidding on the problem. However, as its production is moving very slowly, our citizens are concerned that they will suffer from water problems for at least another year. I repeat my call for immediate resolving of this problem. Citizens are especially awaiting the solution of water problems from Minister Ahmet Eshref Fakibaka, and they want this solution to be accelerated. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0193par0122	Mr. Kayishoglu, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0194par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in 2012, three ministers laid the foundation for the fast train in Bursa, which was said to be finished in 2016, in 2018. From what we've learned from the court reports, the tender was paid in full. When will this fast train end, the high-speed train coming to Ankara? My next question is that the tests are being conducted abroad because there is also no center of automotive and no area for testing. An automotive testing centre was to be opened in Yenişehir, which was said to be opened years ago, and there is still no progress on it. When will it be over? There are also dozens of large and small plants in Burma, still projects being produced, new plants being built, courts being cancelled. Again, is there such a plant project related to Bursa? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0195par0128	Thank you. Now I'll leave the word to our Minister of Development, Mr. Lütfi Elvin, to answer the questions. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0131	Mr. President, thank you very much. First of all, after the July 15 coup attempt, a question was raised against those related to the Fetullahist terrorist organization in particular. Dear friends, we've all been through this coup attempt together, and we all know that this terrorist organization has made an attempt to divide this country, to tear it apart, to turn our people against each other in a way. That night, all our parties stood firm against this coup attempt here. We all know that the people who were expelled from the public in particular are members of this terrorist organization, who are associated with this Fetullahist terrorist organization. However, there may have been some names that might have been mistaken among them. And that's what you remember, as well, and you know that some government officers were extradited to their institutions under the law, and then, you know, an OHR Commission was created, and now the State of Emergency Commission is considering all the objections. As a result of the State of Emergency Commission, the person concerned with the need will be able to appeal to the judiciary. So the process continues. But I think it's extremely important for each of us to be careful and stand up to those who attempt such a coup. The second issue, again, is the issue of Düzce. It was said that development in particular was not enough, that tourism was not developing enough. In particular, we all know that our Düzce province has made incredible progress in the industrial field in recent years. There's no room in organized industrial areas, and there's a new demand for organised industrial areas. In terms of industrialization, the Düzce has shown a really big performance in terms of development, but in recent years, we will, of course, pass on the shortcomings of these street illuminations to the mayor. Our Minister of Industry and Trade, you know, Düzce MP, and I'm going to tell him that in particular. Again, some thoughts have been expressed regarding the city's municipal and all-city laws, or rather, this area. Here, our government is conducting a study to address some setbacks, especially in the Metropolitan Law. As soon as this work is done, we will bring these arrangements before you again. Another question for development agencies has been requested for development agencies to reduce the cut from the municipality in particular. In particular, we have an idea that the source taken from small municipalities should not be taken, and we have a work to do. Hopefully, after we've completed these studies, we'll bring them back to you for development agencies. The other thing is, it's about contract teaching practice. The contracted teaching application, you know, was taken out to ensure that teachers serving in the Eastern and Southeast Anatolian regions spend their working time in this area within reasonable time. According to the law, the contract teacher's family union is, of course, provided by the contract teacher. Without this arrangement, we also feel that without financial arrangements and incentives, it is not possible to keep that teacher in that area. And I think it's important for a good education that the teacher is teaching at a time when he's going to recognize his student. Again, I think another question to the Bank of Agriculture, which I can't quite take... is that I honestly don't think it's right to associate directly with the Agriculture Bank because of the method of implementing a particular system of agricultural loan co-ops.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0197par0138	We need to tell the credit co-ops something, Mr. Secretary, 9 percent is a huge difference.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0139	Dear friends, if it's intended for solar power support, we have solar energy support through our regional development administrations and development agencies in many provinces, especially to create awareness, to demonstrate the importance of solar energy. And our goal here is basically, of course, that this solar energy is being shown in those provinces, at least in those areas, as an example. We also have a support mechanism for that. A question was raised against Şanlıurfa. I would like to make it a priority, especially in the second half of 2017 and in the investment programme of 2018, the projects of our districts with drinking water problems have been put into investment programme and work has been launched. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have it for a little while?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0198par0143	Finish, finish, finish your sentence.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0144	I will, sir. While the mayor of Şanlıurfa Metropolitan has been able to improve the existing lines, we, as a public government, have started work, especially through the State Water Affairs, to provide this water, and hopefully we will quickly complete it. A question has been raised against him again, directed toward the fast train. You know, there's been a huge landslide on the scholarship-Billy line, and there's been a delay from this landslide.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0199par0147	It's not that.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0148	Yes, the landslide... I did the Ministry of Transport, and I was the one who saw the landslide at the time.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0199par0150	I know. Last week, we interviewed the State Railways at the CIT Commission, but it's not that.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0151	But this landslide has had a significant effect.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0199par0152	Thirty-five kilometers of route has changed. You've liquidated it at 300 million.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0153	So you know how quickly we do these projects, these large scale projects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0199par0154	No, no, not like that, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0155	Hopefully, we'll finish these as soon as possible, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0199par0156	You've bid 800 million, you've tied it to 380, you've liquidated it; it's up to 2 billion.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0196par0157	And finally, about test centers, I'd like to say that we're particularly supportive of setting up test centers. We've set up several test centers, and I'll follow the test center in Bursa. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0200par0159	Thank you. The talks on chapter four are now complete. We'll discuss the matter on chapter four, the motions on these items, if we have them. There are two motions on Article 78: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 78 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0201par0170	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0200par0171	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0202par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0200par0173	I'm reading the reason: The Law on Energy Efficiency, 78 and 79, has been changed, and the public institution has been allowed to make energy performance contracts to reduce its energy costs and consumption. However, it is clear how the public will receive goods and services. The Public Contractor's Act 4734 is also under contract with Law 4735. However, the arrangement poses a danger of removing these proceedings from the scope of Law 4734, and naturally from budget discipline. Moreover, the commission to discuss these arrangements is not the Plan and Budget Commission. So we predict that both the content and the method of legislature should be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 78 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Moses Pine Zechariah Haziel Zulfikar Inönü Diary Bült Kuşoğlu Lale Karbük Bihlun Tamaylıgil ADADDE 78-18/4/2007 and the first verse of Article 3 (i) of Energy Efficiency Law 5627 was added to the following bench, and the existing dams have been identified accordingly. "j) Energy performance contract: the agreement based on guaranteeing energy savings to be provided after the application project and paying savings due to implementation of expenditures Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0203par0187	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0200par0188	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0204par0189	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0200par0190	The Dülfikar Division will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Inönu.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0205par0193	Mr. President, valued lawmakers have been described as a means of financing such projects to fund capital using energy performance contracts, energy efficiency or reductions in costs obtained by renewable energy projects. This contract envisions guaranteeing energy savings after the implementation project and the basis for which the expenditures will be paid through practical savings. Public administrations and other public institutions and organisations will be able to make energy performance contracts to reduce energy consumption or energy costs, and will be able to launch widespread loads over the next 15 years, not over the next 15 years. Apart from the purchases of goods and services and the provisions of production, punishment and bans, it will not be subject to the provisions of the Public Contraction Law. Honourable lawmakers, the regulation aimed at pave the way for contracts to be made without the supervision of the tender institution and to block the judicial control of business and transactions through public tender board decisions does not comply with the principle of the legal state in Article 2 of the Constitution. As a matter of fact, there have been no satisfactory answers to the questions raised during the Commission talks on the grounds that the purchases of services in the public area under the terms of energy performance contracts have been excluded from the scope of public tender law 4734. It has also been said that there is no detailing in the draft articles regarding a risk-sharing financing model, and that the solution to all kinds of problems will be sought at the level of secondary legislation. The content of this clause is outside the scope of the Plan and Budget Commission. In addition, when it is foreseen that the cost between public institutions and energy companies cannot exceed the profit, 15 years of long process, cost and efficiency controls can also pave the way for abuse. It would be more appropriate for all NGOs to be legalised in commissions such as Industry, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission to be discussed and discussed in detail, taking into account a new concept of energy performance agreements such as 5627. Dear lawmakers, some incentive mechanisms must also be developed in terms of boosting Turkey's production from renewable energy sources. Turkey's priority should be energy efficiency and savings to reduce its energy demand. New strategies for reducing external dependency in energy should be developed, predicting that needs can be provided from renewable energy. It is also possible to create intelligent networks, intelligent energy, active and sustainable cities around the world. Urban transformation projects that surround Turkey from head to toe but flow beyond definition should be designed and supported in the form of environmentally friendly green energy, efficient passive housing. Instead of completely destroying structures, renovating, transforming, and healing should be a priority. It is also delayed by the zero-emission, zero-energy building requirement, which does not exceed talks, remains on paper and is constantly postponed. Dear lawmakers, we have to focus on energy efficiency in order to get rid of supply security, carbon sanctions and the negative consequences of climate change from the energy sector, which cannot compete internationally because of rising energy prices and increased external dependence. One of Turkey's most important problems is to focus on investment and incentive mechanisms, then infrastructure, capacity, personnel and energy efficiency, to resolve the energy crisis the shortest and cheapest way. In industrial cities such as Istanbul, Izmir, Ankara, Bursa, Antalya, university organised industrial areas, mechanical engineers, electrical engineers' room and private sectors should be provided with the use of energy efficiency applications. In this context, refinery, petrochemistry facilities, oil and gas storage facilities, ports and shipyard projects should be implemented immediately, which are of great importance to the region of Çukurova, especially the province of Adana, but cannot be invested because of problems in publicisation since 2007. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0206par0201	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 78th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions in Article 79: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 79 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştaş Garo Paylan Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0207par0212	Mr. President, we can't attend.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0206par0213	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0208par0214	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0206par0215	I'm reading the reason: Changes have been made in Articles 78 and 79, Energy Efficiency Law 5627, and the public institution has been allowed to make energy performance contracts to reduce its energy costs and consumption. However, it is clear how the public will receive goods and services. The Public Contractor's Act 4734 is also under contract with Law 4735. However, the arrangement poses a danger of removing the transactions from the scope of Law 4734, and naturally from budget discipline. Moreover, the commission to discuss these arrangements is not the Plan and Budget Commission. So we predict that both the content and the method of legislature should be removed from the draft text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 79 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Tax Code 533 which is currently in session and by some Laws and Laws shall be changed in accordance with Article 79. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Lale Karabık Moses Pine Flood Köse Bihlun Tamayligil The following article has been added to Law No. 79. 5627. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0209par0231	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0206par0232	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0210par0233	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0206par0234	Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek will speak on the motion. Mr. Zeybek, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0211par0237	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, Bag 533 has been added to Law 5627. This addition is about electricity sold by all electrical distribution networks in Turkey during the period when the Justice and Development Party came to power; it's about how we can get cheap electricity from these distribution networks again to the state, to institutions, and how we can legalise it. Is that even possible? You created distribution networks many years ago that could make a lot of money. What were you thinking when you created these networks? Why did you not set these conditions? Why didn't you think the state would pay such a price, that electricity would be sold to all institutions and organizations at high prices? The electricity is produced by a private company; it's derived from water sources from the land that 80 million people in Turkey have earned in those wars, which are sweats, eyesores; you need to know that. You did it without knowing it, and today, how can we afford to buy electricity for all the government's organizations? You can't have it. [[Applause from CHP rows]] My fellow lawmakers, there's a lot of discussion going on here today. In Turkey, we are discussing a law in which land, land, trees, plants are watered, and watering troops are in control, maintenance and repair. I'm gonna bring this whole thing over here, connect it to the electricity. You've privatised the power distribution networks many years ago, and today you'll privatise the irrigation units; you've privatized these privatized irrigation units, and you'll take these distribution networks, and you'll make our citizens, citizens, people, people who can water their land, people who don't leave their plants without water, and you'll get electricity at a high price. We're not supposed to say yes to this law. Our dear friends, many years ago, along with the Salvation War, our sugar factories were established in this country. With these sugar factories being built, you want to somehow privatize sugar beets factories, where water is the ideal use, water efficiency is the best available. This privatisation is not right. This privatisation is to seize the future of that poor farmer in our country, our fellow man's small-scale land, his eye shine, his child's future, his grandson's future, his achievements. Let's not say yes to this law here, let's not make it legal, let's not get privatized. In sugar beets, the state has been the best co-optured with farmers for years, and it's a document of how our people can come together and manage their own product, sugar beets factories. So we say we get sugar from sugar factories, we get melas -- we get alcohol, ethanyl alcohol, which protects our animals and our health. Depending on that, selling sugar factories, ignoring beet producers, feeders, is the end of agricultural production. Sugar means dirt. Land means country. I believe that the people who sold our land for Rant, the ones who seized our factories, the ones who ruined our farmer's future, somehow our friends in the Turkish National Assembly would stop. I know that all four political parties here support the farmer. But let's not make it legal with one hand giving orders, let's just say stop. Let's stop the country from falling apart like this. It's international gangsta imperialist forces, monopoly's candy, taking over our land. I give you my regards.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0212par0245	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 79th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 80th article, so I'll have them read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 80 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Emin Haluk Ayhan Muharrem Varlı Kamil Aydın İsmail Faruk Aksu Mustafa Kalaycı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0213par0255	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0212par0256	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0214par0257	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0212par0258	I'm reading the reason: It is an unacceptable approach to extradite the estates of the Articles by law, through amendments to the Law of the Foundations. It has not been understood by law why such an arrangement is needed when the right to use, not property, can be resolved through the transfer of the Treasury. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to change the terms of the terms of the terms of the Charter 533 in accordance with Article 80, which is held in Article 80. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0215par0270	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0212par0271	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0216par0272	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0212par0273	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0217par0276	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 80 of Law Bill 533. I salute the General Assembly. As it will be remembered, with the implementation of the Metropolitan Law 2014 local elections, the village's corporate personalities have been eliminated and each governorate commission has been established in order to purge and transfer the property of its legal personalities. In 2016, the Commission for Determination, Resolvement and Sharement, which was carried out under Mardin Governorate in 2016, ruled that the property of the church and the monasteries should be registered to the treasure, as well as that of the cemetery-based movers on behalf of Mardin Metropolitan Municipality. The village was registered to its corporate personalities, and the church and monasteries were later transferred to the General Directorate of the Foundations. The decisions taken by the relevant Commission have led to great reaction and sadness in the Suryani people, which is why the Purple Gabriel Foundation has made necessary attempts to apply for the Recovery Commission, and has requested the extradition of the churches, graves, and properties. However, according to the relevant law, the Commission officials have stated that they can only give the premises to state institutions and cannot give the foundations such a turn. Mr. President, in the past few months, there have been positive talks between the government officials and the Mor Gabriel Monastery Foundation and the executives of some of the Suryani institutions to resolve the problem, and the Foundation General has announced that they are working to make legal arrangements for the return of property. In the same way, Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the foundations, Mr. Hakan Sargegoglu, stated that a wrong transaction was taken at the desk, saying they would extradite the property. Following these positive talks, the bag is envisioned to extradite some of the property belonging to the Suryani people, with the relevant clause added to the Foundation's Law under the law. With this clause, a total of 56° of 110 move-ins are expected to be extradited. However, the immediate return of the rest of the Suryanis' remaining assets would bring great pleasure to the Suryani public. As part of this bill, we would like to point out that we consider the restitution of some of the Suryanian foundations an important and valuable step towards resolving this problem. Of course, in addition to this current issue, similar qualities remain urgent for the thousands of relocations of Armenian, Greek and Jewish citizens with minority status. In this context, I'd like to say that we're waiting for the return of all other minorities to their owners. It is our wish and demand that the government take steps in this direction in the coming period. It will no doubt serve our cultural heritage and our social peace, as well as the budget of the General Directorate of the Foundation for the restoration of historical buildings, such as the historical church, monasteries, and synagogues, which are the cultural heritage of all citizens of this country. Mr. President, it is, of course, the right of all citizens to expect the government to be more thorough in fulfilling its obligations under the agreements under which it has signed, in accordance with the principle of a democratic, secular and social rule of law, which, of course, states that our citizens of minorities do not feel otherwise, feel left out, and that their relations with the state should not be worn down on this basis. The fact that minority foundations are being forced to resort to various non-moving, judicial means to take back churches and monasteries that are actually their own, unfortunately, undermines our social peace, causing negative perceptions to develop against our country as well. It is not difficult to reverse this perception, but it is undoubtedly in the best interest of all citizens of this country to be given their rights and to be handed over to our people, and it will make everyone in our country feel that they are willing, equal and free citizens, and it will raise our country's image and reputation. As I finish my speech, I await the support of all Parliament and all of our representatives, and I hereby welcome you back with my heart and heart, with love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0218par0284	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework text of Article 80 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Tax Laws 533 which are in session and by some Laws and Laws. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Bulent Kuşoğlu Selina Doğan Lale Karabık The Interim Article No. 5737, dated 80-2008, was added to the following interim clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0219par0296	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0218par0297	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0220par0298	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0218par0299	İstanbul MP Selina Doğan will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dogan.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0221par0302	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to begin by celebrating this colorful and beautiful holiday, whether we write it with a different meaning for all the people who celebrate it. Yes, today we celebrate the Festival of Nevruz. Next week, we will celebrate Easter next Sunday, the largest Christian holiday, which in fact symbolizes the birth of spring in the pagan era, but later comes to a different understanding with the monotheistic religions. However, we, the minorities in Turkey, face Easter again in a grim way with many of the problems left on the hook. The item we're talking about right now -- as I'm a personal follower of the region -- allows the return of part of the Suryani community's property to be restored, but in fact, the minorities have a lot of issues on hold, and I'd like to pass on one of them that's up to date here. We have a Bomonti Mihitaryan school in Bomonti district of İstanbul, which was personally paid for in 1958, but was later registered to the treasure in the city of Ayash in 1979 by court order. This has been going on since 2011. As a matter of fact, authorities recently met with Deputy Prime Minister HakanYungoğlu. We wish that the return of this property would be solved through dialogue, just like the properties within this substance. See, the Lausanne Agreement, you know, is often debated, as it has recently been, and every time this founding agreement guarantees minority rights in Turkey, minorities get nervous. So, while Lausanne is on the table, we need to look at it a little bit from here. Yes, these problems are partially resolved here today, but in fact, in Turkey, we don't need to make so many radical changes to solve minority problems; implementing existing regulations, a little goodwill, dialogue will be enough to solve these problems. We need to remove the barriers to the minds to solve these problems. I'd like to address some of the problems left on hold, if you'll excuse me. As many of you have followed, you know, the Armenian Patriarchy has been unable to choose its path for nearly ten years, and it's become a snake story. We wish to open dialogue channels for the solution to this matter as soon as possible. The other issue is that the governing boards of the congregations have not been elected. The regulation, which allowed the foundations to choose, was cancelled on 19 January 2013, and since then, the issue has been suspended again. This is one of the problems that needs to be solved as soon as possible. Another issue is minority schools, lawmakers. We need to develop a computational collective legislation to meet the needs of minority schools in accordance with the current, sociological reality. And, of course, members of hate speech... look, according to the daily Hate Report of the Hrant Dink Foundation, according to the Media Report, from September-December 2017 to the four-month period, 1,580 columnists and articles targeting national ethnic and religious groups have been identified; there have been 1,982 expressions of hate speech about 48 different groups. These are considered cases, but we wish they wouldn't just be in the reports, they'd develop policies to address these problems. I've submitted a motion to the House to investigate all these problems. I wish there would be a research commission in the House to discuss these problems with all concerned. Today is also Battle of Racism and Segregation Day. On this occasion, I wish you all a day where no one hates each other, no one throws hate words at each other, and I give you all my regards again.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0313	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 80th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 81: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the price of the price of the FOB, which is included in Article 81 of the Common Law Bill 533, shall be changed in the form of ▪FOB. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0223par0324	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0325	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0224par0326	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0327	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit the 81st article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 82: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 82 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0225par0340	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0341	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0226par0342	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0343	I'm reading the reason: The Articles 83 and 84 have been changed to the Law on Highways, and the privatisation of redundancies within the General Directorate. Privatisations have increased greatly during the AKP period and have brought no benefits to the public. We don't find it principledly right to move or sell the property in the public hands. Because what the public has belongs to the people and is right to be used for public good. If there are surplus transports, they can be earmarked for other public institutions that are needed and can be used to benefit the public. As a result of privatisations, the majority of the public's holdings have been seen in the central areas, including the existing practices in which they will be opened and followed to the capital sectors. Moreover, materials are not in the context to discuss in the Plan and Budget Commission, they must be discussed at the relevant residency commission. So we predict that these substances, both in context and in the way of living, will be removed from the draft text, which we do not find accurate. All those in favor of the motion that I've made him read... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the framework text of Article 82 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Tax Code 533, which is currently in session. Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Bült Kuşoğlu Lale Karabık Serdal Kerelcuoğlu The following article has been added to the Law on Organizations and Missions of Highways No. 6001, dated 82-25/6/2010. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0227par0356	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0357	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0228par0358	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0222par0359	Mersin MP Serdal Külcuoğlu will speak on the motion. Mr. Wellercuoğlu, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0229par0362	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on Article 82 of Law 533. I salute you all with love. In Turkey, in recent days, every segment of society has begun to show signs of fatigue in solving extreme social tensions and social problems. The pressure from economics to politics, every aspect of life and every part of it is felt. Citizens ask when good things will happen, and they are concerned about their future. What is happening in Turkey? The president lays the foundation of numerous investments with the so-called mass opening ceremony in each city he visits, but unemployment is not diminishing, it is multiplying. On average, three workers lose their lives every day in business accidents, no measures are taken. Turkey's Statistical Agency is doing its best to make TÜİK, unemployment and poverty look low, and poverty has decreased. 25 million people are being helped by the state as they are called. As budget deficits increase, the tax-paying citizen asks, "Where do my taxes go? Almost every day, a few women are either raped or killed, and their killers are given discounts for good behavior. Drug use has been reduced to primary schools. Social insanity is at critical threshold, ready to explode. Mothers kill their children, fathers kill their wives. It's possible to make new additions to what's listed here. Dear lawmakers, 125 major facilities have been privatised in the last 16 years when AKP governments have been in charge. In the last 15 years, the republic's work was sold and closed, yet Turkey's two sides did not meet. The roads, open bridges, huge plazas planted in cities, instead of the production economy, did not determine that 15 million minimum wagers in our country live below the hunger limit of 15 million pensioners. The government, which saw this bad economy, sought new resources, sold huge tax-paying institutions, industrial facilities, ports, public buildings and plots one after the other. Turkey's largest public enterprises were sold through privatisations, and a large number of strategic institutions failed to survive. Over the past 15 years, foreign companies have increased their weight in many sectors from finance to energy, health to education, retail to food. 50 per cent of the banking sector has taken over 70 per cent of the insurance industry. Now they've got their eye on the sugar mills, and they want to sell them, too. With this, they will sell the goods of the Turkish Republic Highways. The Republic's savings of 80-odd years have been dispossessed. Instead of being invested in more productive areas, these disbursements were used to finance the current deficit, so the future was sold. Dear lawmakers, infrastructure investments are made out of foreign debt; autoways, double roads, high-speed railway roads, tunnels, dams and hydropower plants. There have been interesting developments in agriculture during the AKP period, Turkey has seen what it has not seen. He had no agricultural products that he didn't import; we even imported hay, we imported animals from all over the world, we imported meat. During the AKP, alms culture dominated. Through the government's hand supply, the masses are bound to power. Adding media propaganda and brainwashing to that, the process is complete. ▪ Turkey is well-managed. I once again find it useful for those who say, "Look carefully at the issues expressed here." My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0230par0372	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 82nd Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 83: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 83 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0231par0383	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0230par0384	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0232par0385	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0230par0386	I'm reading the reason: The Articles 83 and 84 have been changed to the Law on Highways, and the privatisation of redundancies within the General Directorate. Privatisations have increased greatly during the AKP period and have brought no benefits to the public. We don't find it principledly right to move or sell the property in the public hands. Because what the public has belongs to the people, and it is right to be used for public good. If there are surplus transports, they can be assigned to other public institutions that are needed and can be used to benefit the public. As a result of privatisations, the majority of the public's holdings are in central places, and these areas have been seen with existing applications where they will open up their Rantfields and pursue the capital sectors. Moreover, materials are not in the context to discuss in the Plan and Budget Commission, they must be discussed at the relevant residency commission. So we predict that these substances, both in context and in the way of living, will be removed from the draft text, which we do not find accurate. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 83 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Bulent Kuşoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Lale Karabıyuk Article 83-6001 has been added to the following temporary clause. The costs made by the President of Privatisation Administration are transferred to the account of the amount left after the sale of revenues from the privatisation and privatisation procedures in its programme when this clause is under the ownership of the General Manager's office 2- (1). Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0233par0401	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0230par0402	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0234par0403	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0230par0404	Niğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0235par0407	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, we are still negotiating a bag bill, whose number is 533. The 82nd and 83rd articles contain a privatisation. As for privatisation, what has the government done in 15 years, I asked Mr. Finance Minister, and I think I'll share with you what has been sold by the signature of Naci Agbal, through the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly, because all our fellow MPs have the right to know in 15 years -- what has been sold -- that you can't finish selling -- in 15 years. So I'll read them to you in order. Public shares of 101 companies, 10 ports, 90 power plants, 40 businesses, 11 hotels and social facilities, 3,703 cannot be moved, 37 mining sites, 3 ships, 6,808 pencils machine equipment, 155 name rights, brands and vehicle examination services; a total of 59.9 billion privatisations. In addition, public shares in 2 companies, 1 business, 1,230 are not moving, 95 ships, 102 pencils, machine equipment, various public companies have been transferred at $1 billion. So the earnings of the Republic era have been sold in fifteen years, but the sizes of the economy, unemployment, problems haven't changed. Look, I'll share with you the names of a few of the stores that were sold from the market: TÜRK TEEKOM sold, Eti Krom sold, Eti Aluminium sold, TEDAS sold, TEDAŞ sold, TIPRAS sold, Sümer Holding Enterprises sold, fed factories sold, TEKEL factories sold, SECEL properties sold, SEKA sold, İskenderun Iron Steel Factory sold, Eti Krom sold, Eti Aluminium sold, Bay sold, Bay sold, Turkish Airways sold, USA sold, ports sold, ports sold, ports sold, works sold, and warehouses sold in Turkey's stores, and warehouses sold in Turkey. Dear friends, now you're selling the land that the highways have left with some sort of privatisation. Then you privatize 14 sugar factories. As you explain it, you say: "The privatized places will work better." But you put in a five-year term, the day after the 2019 elections are over, you will close down the sugar factories, like most of the factories that are privatized and closed here. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's definitely some of the sugar factories that aren't going to work one by one except for the power of the state. These are the social development of those regions, both the workers, the peasants, the farmers, the farmers, the farmers, the feeders, the employees' incomes and livelihoods. Because of the wrong policies in agriculture, we are now importing a lot of products that we have, and we've made the self-contained country depend on the outside, but sugar factories are strategic products. See, my dear friends, the market share of starch-based sugar is increasing in Turkey. You're saying: "The quota has been reduced to 5 per cent." But you have the authority to increase it 50 per cent by order of the Council of Ministers. But other than that, there's a huge risk that is being used as an alternative to sugar, which is all imported, called high-intensity sweetener. On starch-based sugar and high-intensity sweetener products, if you specify that on the labels, the citizen won't get it, so maybe the sugar factories in the private sector stay open. But know this, not only in the public sector, but in the private sector, when the sugar factories in the state are gone... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will be closed in time. We're going to be dependent on the outside, starting a process where imports take us in. I warn our House once again on this matter, and I call upon the government. Stop privatizing sugar factories. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0236par0419	Relax." He says, "We've sold so many places, it's fine if we sell them too. This nation will vote for us." he says. This nation will vote for us, relax." he says. We sold Turkey, he votes, and if we sell them, he'll vote again." he says.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0237par0420	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 83 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. In Article 84, there are three motions, two of which are the same property, which I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 84 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir They're the signatures of the other motions of the same nature. Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Bulent Kuşoğlu Tule Karabık Ali Şeker Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0238par0435	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0237par0436	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0239par0437	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0237par0438	I'm reading the reason for the first motion of the same nature: The arrangement aims to ensure that RTÜK audits the organisations that run broadcasts online and are organised in the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Televisions 6112. We believe that the arrangement that allows online broadcasters to get licenses from RTÜK and to allow RTÜK to oversee these publications also carries censorship into the online environment. The desired goal here is to contain alternative media, even though it appeals to a narrow area. The descriptions of the arrangement are very incomplete. For example, all of these operations are referred to as BTK (Information of Information Technologies and Communication Organization) and RTÜK, which will be adopted within six months. Here are two possibilities: either the carelessness of those preparing the proposal text or the consciously leaving the tip open and trying to create anxiety in this way. Because the law of RTÜK does not have Internet control, but it is legally tasked to a non-employee. So far, BTK's operation has been transferred to RTÜK. It is imperative that those who rule the country realize that they cannot solve problems with bans and obstacles. Citizen's consciousness is important in this regard. Given that the Internet differs from television, the audience consciously prefers this place, the name of the audit is not control, but censorship. The Visual Audio Media Service Director for the Internet media field is also the EU's only tool for this area. In the EU integration process, Turkey has adopted its legislation in this area, and the Law 6112 is regulated. While the media has entered the monopoly of political power and is watching a broadcast line in the direction of power, the voice of the opposition is not on any platform, it will force its own alternative broadcast to be audited by RTÜK, under the obligation to get licenses for online broadcasts, even political parties to open their own social media channels to RTÜK control and get licenses. Thus, this arrangement is a disastrous arrangement that will open the way for the complete silence of the opposition voices, rather than the censorship of Internet publications. It must be removed from the draft text in a strict manner. Istanbul MP Ali Şeker wants a word on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0240par0444	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on Article 84 of Article 533, which shall follow Article 29/A of RTÜK Law 6112. In a more accurate way, I have made a commitment to your efforts to bring censorship and obstruction laws to independent and alternative communication channels that have been developed via the Internet. With this piece of paper you've brought in in the bag bill, you're trying to put a bag on the Internet, on the truth. You want to silence the successful newspaper and television people you see as opposing, who have chosen the freer platform as a channel of communication. Dear lawmakers, with the arrangement you're trying to bring in, you're only providing licenses according to the RTÜK Law to those who broadcast online. The power is aimed at destroying, blocking, censoring voices through economic pressure, with master's fees and high punishment practices. The reason for the arrangement is the publication of platforms such as Netflix, where Internet broadcasters avoid content control, international social media companies do not open offices in Turkey, do not pay taxes. Since when is the job of identifying revenues and collecting taxes from them the RTÜK? Isn't this the Ministry of Finance's job, and you're trying to justify it? The reasons for the content inspection are a violation of the Constitution's 26th Article, titled "Freedom to explain and spread thought." In 2016, the United Nations defined access to the Internet as a basic human right. The United Nations says the State of Emergency practices violate basic human rights. Freedom House took our country into the category of non-free countries in the world. Yesterday, the European Union decided to establish free internet infrastructure in public areas, in common areas. While the world is talking about artificial intelligence, driving cars, the Maker Movement, Elon Musk has launched a project to provide the Internet from satellite to African jungles, while you're trying to black out the Internet while sending the first of Starlink satellites into space. The Twitter, Facebook, and the blocking and blocking of access to YouTube, the 11 months off Wikipedia, the removal of the content of the opposition sites, the syndicate. The experience that you put into the country, such as the 62-time closure of the organization's website, more than 100,000 restricted sites, reveals your bad intentions in this regard. We don't expect the party president to bring freedom to the country. You will not be able to eradicate the truth, the knowledge. Indeed, the truth is above all things, and one day he will be victorious. Why are you still afraid? But have fear of God, for you will not be able to deafen people's eyes and ears. You quietly gave the third airport subway contract to one of your allies for $4 billion,294 million. You think the public won't hear about this? The RTÜK Act licenses messages from environments such as public property, nature, weather, sky and land. The reason for this is that the bandwidth has no frequency allocations, no confusion prevention, but no Internet, derya; no technical limitations. You don't need to adjust certain frequencies. Why do you require a license? In Internet technology, companies deliver messages via the line they're renting. There's no technological boundaries, there's always opportunities, there's no public property online, there's just no company frequency, so there's no need for a license. Non-licensed publications are restricted and removed from content, and the authority is granted to the justices of the peace. At the request of the board, the magistrate can block the broadcast within 24 hours without a trial, remove the content. We won't discuss many problems like this, but we'll deal with them through management, you say. Your purpose is clearly censorship. In the last six years, 3,356 have not been decided. The Constitutional Court has revoked the power of Turkey's Communication Presidency to block access due to violation of the Constitution, and you have re-verted the words and brought the same ban. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] As long as you put bans on it, we'll develop new alternatives. It's not the Hitler era; it's not the Goebbels era. You won't succeed, you won't destroy the truth.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0455	I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I'm reading the final motion on Article 84: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We submit the amendment of Article 533 to Article 84/2/2011 to Article 84/2011 and the addition of the following joke to Article 29/A, which is intended to be added to Article 6112 on the Foundation and Publishing Services, in accordance with the following version of Article 2/A. This decision will be sent to the Information Technologies and Communication Institution. " "The 3rd and 5th jokes of Article 8/A of Law 5651 apply regarding the decision to remove and/or block access given under this clause. ▪ ==References==The task and powers of the Information Technologies and Communication Institution are not considered under this clause, nor are radio, television and optional broadcast services and real and legal persons who provide only space for radio, television and optional broadcasting services from the Internet. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0242par0465	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0466	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0243par0467	We agree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0468	I'm reading the reason: Controversies on this issue are clearly resolved, by clearly editing the issue that users, such as video sharing and social media platforms, can upload visual auditory content, and locators are not part of the substance. The laws of the Constitutional Court has been made clear when the Supreme Court makes a decision and thus prohibits access to the entire website, not in accordance with the decision issued in the Official Journal of 07/02/2018, and E-2015/76, K-2017/153. In addition to technical and administrative issues related to the transmission of broadcast services, co-operation between the Radio and Television Supreme Council and the Information Technologies and Communication Agency is also strengthened in fulfilling the requirements for the release of content and/or blocking access, and its duties and powers stemming from the legislation imposed by the Information Technologies and Communication Agency are kept. I submit to your votes the commission's recommendation that we read the reasons for Mustafa Elitaş and his friends, which the government has agreed to, that those who agree... Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 84th article: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 85, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 85 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0244par0483	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0484	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0245par0485	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0486	I'm reading the reason: Changes have been made in Articles 85, 86 and 87, and in various articles of Power Market Law 6446. It is clear that the arrangements imposed on the plan and budget commission were not discussed enough and were not discussed at the relevant residency commission. Again, we don't find it right for the law to be legalized, the seriousness of the law, without being discussed in the relevant fellowship commission, of the arrangements brought in with exceptions and exemptions. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 85 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion in Article 86, I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that Article 86 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0246par0499	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0500	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0247par0501	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0502	I'm reading the reason: Some changes have been made in Articles 85, 86, and 87, in various articles of Power Market Law 6446. It is clear that the arrangements imposed on the plan and budget commission were not discussed enough and were not discussed at the relevant residency commission. Again, we don't find it right in terms of legislation's seriousness that the regulations brought to exceptions and exemptions should be legalized without being discussed in the relevant residency commission. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 86th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 87, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 87 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0248par0515	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0516	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0249par0517	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0518	I'm reading the reason: Some changes have been made in Articles 85, 86, and 87, in various articles of Power Market Law 6446. It is clear that the arrangements imposed on the plan and budget commission were not discussed enough and were not discussed at the relevant residency commission. Again, we don't find it right in terms of legislation's seriousness that the regulations brought to exceptions and exemptions should be legalized without being discussed in the relevant residency commission. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 87th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 88, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Subsequently, the conditions that can be accepted in Article 88 of the Common Law Bill 533 are listed below. We propose and propose changes in the form of conditions that can be expressed below. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0250par0531	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0532	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0251par0533	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0534	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 88th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 89: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 89 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. We supply and offer. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir The signatures of the other motion are: Bihlun Tamayligil Musa Pine Zechariah Haziel Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0252par0553	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0554	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0253par0555	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0241par0556	I'm reading the reason for the first motion of the same nature: Investment No. 6745 with Article 6745 has been envisioned to include amendments to some Law and Law provisions added to the Law, providing the provision of nuclear power plant investments with the envisioned incentives and support of State Aids in Investments. The arrangement concerns Akkuyu and Sinop Nuclear Power Plants, which are under way with two international agreements signed with Russia and Japan. The additional incentives to two plants that cost $40 billion provide billions of dollars to Russia and Japan. Turkey's commitment to Russia and Japan in exchange for these new advantages is unknown. The electricity produced by the two plants depends on high prices, long-term purchase agreements. While our country gives additional incentives, Russia and Japan have no idea how much less electricity will be in return. Around the world, while a powerful and active process is under way to shut down nuclear power plants, the construction of nuclear plants in our country is motivated by new incentives. Also, in 2010 with Russia, the electricity in the deals we signed with Japan in 2013 cost our country a lot more than solar and wind energy investments, as we have seen in the tenders of our country in 2017. In detail, financial support and incentives are being organised to build the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, which is still on the public agenda. As of the end of October, Turkey has the capacity to produce 82,018 megawatts of energy, while current power plants produce an average of 40-50 per cent of that capacity. The public-owned power plants are not working at all or are producing at very low capacity, while the private sector is producing 40 per cent. The construction and propaganda process of this plant is also ignored, as well as nuclear plant waste and consequences. At this point, our biggest concern is that Turkey will become a radioactive waste cemetery because of the nuclear plant. From here, it is a public responsibility to say that the natural system will be damaged, that it will cause irreparable damage to life, to marine ecosystems, to agricultural areas. It has to be known that the nuclear power plant that will be supported by these incentives does not need to be an accident for the destruction of the plant, because once the plant starts working, the spread of radioactive rods in the cooling pools will begin to spread the toxicity of death toxins to the ground, to the soil, to the water, to the village, to the fish, to the forest, to the wolf, to the bird, to the cow, to the animal. Agriculture will be affected, and such activities will be restricted in places of tourism that are very close to bird flight. In this regard, we oppose the application of incentives to the nuclear power plant, which we do not accept, and we advocate that matter be removed from the draft text. On the other proposal of the same nature, Izmir MP Zechariah Haziel will speak. Here you go, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0254par0562	Thank you. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, there will be some corrections in this matter that we would actually like to file with the Minister's agreement that will not cause misunderstandings in the future. That's our attitude on this. You know, two nuclear power plants have passed through this Parliament, one is the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant, and the other is the Sinop Nuclear Power Plant. One was done with the Soviet Union, the other with Japan. The deal with the Soviet Union is only six pages. Within the framework of this agreement, it clearly states how the costs will be formed, how the price will be determined, and at the end of the deal, which is determined to be 12.35 cents; $12.35/sent. So for fifteen years, I guarantee to receive electricity produced here at 12.35 cents. The government of the Republic of Turkey and this agreement were adopted in this Parliament. The Japanese agreement against the six-page Russian agreement says 46 pages, finely everything, that it will benefit from some incentives, but by the way, we'll make sure that I'm not taking advantage of them after learning them. It says very clearly and in spite of all of this, it doesn't set the price until it's finalized. Mr. Minister, dear friends, we now have a process called the Constitution, international agreements, normal laws, regulations and regulations under the hierarchy of our laws. We follow this line of law enforcement. So we know that we can't replace an international agreement with a law. That's what our international reputation requires, and the nations know it. In that case, if we want to do something more in these agreements, then we'll call in our contacts, and we'll discuss this, and we'll say we'll go to a revision that will be in your favor and ours in our favor. That's the job. But then we found out that the bag that you're talking about is now in the law that the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant and Sinop Nuclear Operator will benefit from all the super incentives that will be given to our fifth district. We said, "You can't do this with the law, it's a matter of agreements, why put it here?" They were said to be done by agreement again. We wrote here just to open this up, to say that this matter can be discussed. Dear friends, by the way, after these deals were made, on 17/11/2017, we gave the Akkuyu Nuclear Anonym Company a 76 billion-dollar incentive for Akkuyu Nuclear Plant. We've guaranteed electricity for 12.35 cents, an incentive for 76 billion dollars without negotiating. This is on the Council of Ministers' list of decisions issued between 1/11/2017 and 30/11/2017, and it is in the agreement. Now, here's the thing to focus on, before we gave these incentives, the 76 billion-dollar incentive... 76 billion dollars in incentives, $26 billion today, $26 billion. Do any of you know the cost of Akkuyu Nuclear Plant? He's looking for $11 billion in loans, Turkish partners, but we've given him 76 billion in incentives, so we've also given him $26 billion in incentives. So why are we taking this stuff out? So, what I'd like to submit to the reports, Mr. President, if I may, is that I would like to read this, say a word, say a word, and make a statement from the Minister and submit it to the information of the House.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0255par0570	Please complete in one minute.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0254par0571	One: The provisions of such agreements are only possible if the agreements are revised. Two: The incentives to be made by the law cannot be automatically given because it is part of the law. In Akkuyu and Sinop Nuclear Plant investments, the conditions for the use of incentives will be discussed mutually, the agreement will be revised, and once Turkey is passed through the Grand National Assembly, the earlier guarantees will only be revised, and then it will take effect. Three: The regulation of this law does not constitute any permit for the implementation of 76 billion lira incentives issued by the Council of Ministers.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0256par0575	Mr. President, to finish an important matter...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0257par0576	Complete, please, Mr. Cleanel.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0254par0577	I repeat: The permission you have given by this law does not necessarily mean that the 76 billion-dollar incentives that have been given to say that nuclear plants will benefit from these incentives will be applied or allowed, but under these circumstances it does not come under any circumstances, so it is a formality that we did this to say that it was only understandable or that the matter of agreements could be made. We assume that it was brought to say that the government's agreement on this matter, and we want to submit your testimony and your votes to public record. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0257par0580	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0258par0581	Can our Minister make a statement about this, sir?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0257par0582	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0259par0583	Mr. President, members of our Parliament, it is clear that nuclear power plant projects have a public interest in giving the project strategic investment status by considering the importance of our country and what to do as part of the project. Therefore, the process of changing our internal law has been initiated. An intergovernmental agreement on electricity imports and tariffs will be carried out according to the terms of the agreement to buy electricity. Article 10/8 of the government agreement signed with Russia: change in cost due to changes in Turkish laws and regulations after the signing date of the Isbu Agreement is reflected in TETASH, proportional to the percentage of electricity purchased by TETAS. Each strategic investment incentive will be reflected in the tariffs in both contracts. It is clear in our legislation on what kind of tax pens are involved in strategic investment incentives, but it would be better to wait for and determine the actual fulfillment of all future periods, which will be encouraged to determine the amount of incentives to be used. On the other hand, the amount of incentives will also change, depending on how much investment costs change. It is presented to the knowledge of the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0260par0588	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0261par0589	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0260par0590	Mr. Cleanel...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0261par0591	Wherever you want, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0260par0592	Let me make you a promise again from your position, but let's just drop it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0262par0593	Don't hang up, it's important. We're lending money to our children.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0260par0594	Please come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0263par0595	Mr. President, as a matter of closure, I ask that it be not seen as a matter of certainty. At the moment, Akkuyu Nuclear Plant has already been given a 76 billion-dollar incentive as of 17/11/2017; this is a very important event.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0264par0597	It's not to be given, it's to be given.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0263par0598	This was given before this law was passed, before anything was done about this law. These can only be replaced by an international agreement, a revision of an agreement. Therefore, all of this will be discussed from now on. There's a number in this deal that's going to go up to 12.35, even 15 cents from the company involved. It's an incredible cost for the country, an incredible cost. So what's wrong with doing this in the form of a settlement revision? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] What's to get out of the House? What's wrong with saying, "Yes, we'll bring these negotiations, we'll bring them to Parliament, we'll present them to Parliament, and then, after we've made up our minds, we'll come out here."
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0265par0601	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 89 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 90th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We also propose and propose that the export of the exported statement be changed to the same form as the exported one in Article 90 of Law Bill 533, which is currently in session. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0266par0612	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0265par0613	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0267par0614	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0265par0615	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0268par0617	Mr. President, I've made a pledge to the esteemed lawmakers on Bill 533. I salute the General Assembly. The drafting of this bill envisions the support and support of Investments No. 6745 and the amendment of Some Laws and Laws to the Law shall be added to its investments in nuclear power plant investments on State Aids in Investments. The arrangement concerns Akkuyu and Sinop Nuclear Power Plants, which are under way with two international agreements signed with Russia and Japan. It is decided that both plants will benefit from the envisioned incentives and support for nuclear power plant investments. The additional incentives for two plants that cost $40 billion provide a billion dollar advantage for Russia and Japan. Turkey's commitment to Russia and Japan is unknown in exchange for these new advantages. The electricity produced by the two plants depends on longer-term purchase agreements than the high price. When our country gives additional incentives, it is unclear how much less will Russia and Japan reduce the price of electricity in return. While a powerful and active process is under way to shut down nuclear power plants worldwide, the construction of nuclear plants in our country is motivated by new incentives. Also, in 2010 with Russia, electricity in the deals we signed with Japan in 2013 cost our country much more than solar and wind energy investments -- as we have seen in our country's tenders in 2010. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Akkuyu, have already been used by VAT and customs tax incentives. Akkuyu has been made a strategic and priority investment. Due to these two statuses, the insurance premiums and loans provide significant advantages in interest support, 80-90 per cent in primary investments, and tax reductions for 12 years with 7 per cent. In addition, support for nuclear investments in the event the public's partnership is finalised will have another meaning. The provided state incentives and supports will also create a different attraction for Turkish companies, who prefer to be a supplier of goods and services, rather than buying shares. The Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant, which is still on the agenda of public opinion, is also under way to organise financial support and incentives for the construction of the nuclear power plant. When we look for answers to the question of the nuclear power plant, especially in terms of ecological perspective, we see that it is not even met with TİK data. As of the end of October, Turkey has the capacity to produce 82,018 megawatts of energy, while current power plants produce an average of 40-50 per cent of that capacity. The public-owned power plants are not working at all or are producing at very low capacity, while the private sector is producing 40 per cent. In addition, there is one thing that is ignored in the process of building and propaganda of these plants - nuclear plant wastes and consequences. At this point, our biggest concern is that Turkey will become a radioactive waste cemetery because of the nuclear plant. It is also true that the price of investment has been shaped accordingly due to the significant importance of earthquakes in nuclear power plant investments, and because of the impact of this on tariffs, the price of the company's tariff is too high for current market conditions. Mr. President, it is a public responsibility to say that by moving from here, the natural system will be damaged, that it will cause irreparable damage to life, marine ecosystems, agricultural areas. It has to be known that the nuclear power plant to be supported by these incentives does not need to be an accident for the destruction. Because once the power plant is operational, the waste rods in the cooling pools will begin to spread the toxicity to the bird, to the bug, to the death effect, to the soil, to the water, to the sea; to the village, to the fish, to the forest, to the forest, to the wolf, to the bird, to the bug, to the death. Agriculture will be affected by this, and these activities will be restricted in bird-flying, very close tourist sites. In this regard, he opposes the application of incentives to nuclear power plants that we do not accept, and once again declares that matter must be removed from the draft text, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0623	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Those who accept the 90th article... those who refuse to accept it... the substance is accepted. There is a motion on Article 91: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that we remove the terms of the provision from the text of the substance to determine the payment of the payment to be taken to five times as high in Article 91. Meral Danış Beştaş Garo Paylan Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Fiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0270par0634	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0635	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0271par0636	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0637	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to prevent contracting personnel from getting paid higher than current public employees. It is clear that in IT units, especially in institutions such as BTK and so on, they receive a lot of exorbitant wages, and that causes a serious debate on the public agenda. In the framework of business peace, we don't think it's right that the fees are too high for other public employees. Thus, the relevant part of the matter has been removed from the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Those who accept the 91st article... those who refuse to accept it... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on Article 92 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 92 of Law Bill 533, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that "the definition of 25 per cent of the terms of the declaration of the law shall be replaced in the form of 60 per cent (7,500). Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0272par0650	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0651	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0273par0652	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0653	I'm reading the reason: Under Articles 92 and 93, the provision of the KHK, which regulates the Agency's Law on Family and Social Policy No. 633, has been set up to re-organise and boost state incentives for those who open dowry accounts and housing accounts. First of all, the question of where will the Ministry or the Treasury find the source is not answered in the Commission. The arrangement is clearly prepared with a pragmatic and populist approach, and the amount increased will not help, such as writing in water. Because the amount raised is quite low. In the current case, the state's social state policy is to do things as a reward. Clearly, the amount of increase in these provisions will not do any good, given the circumstances in which power has been spooned and ladled with taxes. Thus, the change was intended to increase the contribution to those who opened the dowry account to at least a minimum benefit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 92nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 93: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 93 of Law Bill 533, which is currently in session, we propose and propose that the "azmi 25%" sign of the article "will be replaced" in the form of "48,000 Turkish liras. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0274par0666	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0667	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0275par0668	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0669	I'm reading the reason: Under Articles 92 and 93, the provision of the KHK, which regulates the Agency's Law on Family and Social Policy No. 633, has been set up to re-organise and boost state incentives for those who open dowry accounts and housing accounts. First of all, the question of where will the Ministry or the Treasury find the source is not answered in the Commission. The arrangement is clearly prepared with a pragmatic and populist approach, and the amount increased will not help, such as writing in water. Because the amount raised is quite low. In the current case, the state's social state policy is to do things as a reward. Clearly, the amount of increase in these provisions will not do any good, given the circumstances in which power has been spooned and ladled with taxes. Thus, the change was intended to increase the contribution to those who opened a housing account to at least a minimum benefit. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 93 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions in Article 94: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 94 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0276par0682	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0683	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0277par0684	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0269par0685	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0278par0687	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Our Minister of Education is here, and perhaps the only item that concerns him is 95 articles. We recommend that this item be removed from the bag. Why do we recommend it? Because it's not enough, friends, it's missing. Look, our Minister told us, and last time he said in budget negotiations, he said, he's in the records, he says I'm short 100,000 teachers. Mr. Secretary says I'm short 100,000 teachers, and we have teachers waiting for hundreds of thousands of staff. We've opened these education schools, we've told these students, so go be a physics teacher, a biology teacher, a gym teacher. These kids have graduated, they're waiting for the appointment, hundreds of thousands of teachers. Mr. Secretary says I'm 100,000 short. What's coming? The mountain's giving birth to mice, guys. You know, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to make 5,000 paid teachers with contracts. The mountain gave birth to mice. Is that enough, fellas? It's not. Don't the teachers call you, push your doors, or e-mail them, or call you? I'm waiting for the appointment. We have teachers who commit suicide, and the Minister knows that there are suicides, friends, and teachers who wait years for appointments and despair and commit suicide. Let's get the kids and the teachers together, close our 100,000 deficits. And friends, that's not how it works. It's not like we're giving teachers a guarantee by making paid teachers contractual. We want all our teachers to be staffed. I'm sure that's what the Minister wants, and I'm sure he's forcing the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Finance says that his budget resources are limited. You know why, guys? Look, you can assign 50,000 teachers to an S-400 missile, you know, an S-400 missile. We can assign tens of thousands of teachers to 20 tanks. We're buying missiles, we're buying tanks, we're buying S-400 missiles, we're making war policies. If we continue peace policies instead of war policies, if we teach our children peace, brotherhood, our schools don't need missiles, no tanks, no rifles. But we split our resources into war, tanks, cannons, missiles. When I'm throwing out teachers, I'm going to sign up for 5,000 paid teachers when there are 100,000 teachers short, says the Minister. And you know how he does it? There's a general problem with the public, folks. Often in recent times, with fear, paranoia -- it's an obvious paranoia -- oral exams are more weighted and verbal interviews are being conducted. It's in the Ministry of Education, it's in other ministries. Mr. Secretary, oral interviews can be asked as many questions as it takes for the president to have grandchildren. That's not what I'm saying at the Department of Education, but...
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0279par0691	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0280par0692	Is there such a thing, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0281par0693	We don't have it.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0282par0694	Yes, this was done in an interview. So this is the kind of... we should see if a teacher is going to be a good biology teacher or a good physics teacher or a good math teacher. The important thing is, we need to see if he can get his information to the kids. We must first see whether he is a member of the AK PARTI, whether he is from CHP, HDP, or MHP; first, whether he will be a good teacher or not. Mr. Secretary, I beg of you, please, let us determine our teachers according to their merits. Let's do the same thing in all the public. Let us have people in every position, position according to merit. Let's make it happen, guys. From that point of view, we say this substance is insufficient. Let's pull it out of this bag. Let the Minister and the entire House have willpower, we'll arrange for 100,000 teachers to close the gap, and we'll force the Minister of Finance. We'll get two S-400 missiles missing, we'll get rid of 100,000 teachers, guys. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0283par0698	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of Article 652 of the Law shall be changed from the text of substance in the year of education and teaching in the year 2017-2018, which shall be added to Article 652. Kamil Aydın İsmail Faruk Aksu Deniz Depboylu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0284par0708	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0283par0709	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0285par0710	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0283par0711	Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on the motion. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0286par0714	Mr. President, there is a temporary Article 15 of Article 94. We've made a motion on behalf of the National Movement Party. I have made a commitment to discuss this motion. At this hour of the night, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my remarks, I would like to express that I am deeply involved in the loss of Turkish diplomacy and the exceptional personality of Turkish politics, the Sea Division head. I offer my mercy to the deceased, and my condolences to his family, and to his loved ones. Honourable MPs, Mr. Secretary here, is a really relevant item, and it's a good thing he's here. In this article, our teachers, you know, we've expressed it before, are being discussed in three different positions. The most victims of our teachers in these three different positions are the ones at the bottom. I mean, staffers, well, they manage, they have financial, spiritual problems; sir, they also have contracts, they have problems, especially in these issues, such as this appointment, co-existence, additional course fees, but there's a third section, which is teaching, teaching, teaching, really doing a lot of work. And these are some 30, 40 grand of our fellow teachers. And a bearer of good news came to him, and We supported him. What was that? Sir, it was an opportunity for them and for those who were not on the staff. In this November, the news given by the Minister really responded to the public, and it opened a door to hope for our 30-40 thousand paid teacher, but now we have a little bit of a shortage of this material, something that seems to be limiting. Here, in our particular motion, we proposed: "Please, not the teachers in the 2017-2018 school year, but the teachers in the school year, because you know what it's like to be a paid teacher, respected lawmakers? You apply every year, if you need it, it's taken care of. For example, you may have been a paid teacher for ten years in the past, but you may not be able to do it this year. It can't be fair to keep the friends who've really been doing this for decades out of the loop. We specifically request the release of the declaration in the year 2017-2018 in education and teaching. And we don't have a standard for their bonus numbers. You know, Mr. Secretary, in some counties, there's actually a whole month of standard and a number of bonuses written every day, and then, as a year, the number of teachers in the province of A (A) who have been teaching for five years is very different. And here, instead of 540, at least if it's reduced to 450, at least with our offer, the victimology will be partially reduced. So there's already an interview here, and you're going to be selective there, but at least we're going to take a limiting, preventive measure in the application process, and we're going to expand it a little bit. If this grand delegation accepts this, it'll be really good, because they'll be competing on equal terms in the interview.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0287par0718	Is an interview even?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0286par0719	Why am I saying this? Mr. Minister, it's been pronounced as a staff, but believe me, these conditions may not even be 5,000, which is a separate problem. So what do we do? This is 30-40, hopefully, let's say that this teacher who's been working really hard for years -- so to speak -- let's reduce this bonus day limit a little bit, and let's raise that precondition that determines 2017-2018, and let's say it doesn't go against the equality of opportunity. So, hopefully, they'll all come in, so they'll have 5,000 staff. Of course, our goal is tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands, but I'm saying we should get rid of this limitation that's already preventing 5,000 applications. I salute your high council with these wishes and requests.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0722	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 94th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Interim Item 1, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply that the declaration be changed until the date of the 533th Amendment, which is in the interim 1st article of the Common Law Bill. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0289par0733	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0734	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0290par0735	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0736	I'm having it read. Reason: The amendment aims to clarify the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the temporary article 1: those who accept... those who refuse... the matter is accepted. There's a motion over Article 95, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the release of other articles (g) of Article 95/3 of Law Bill 533 shall be changed in the date of the release of other substances. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0291par0748	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0749	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0292par0750	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0751	I'm having it read. Reason: The amendment aims to clarify the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. All those in favor of Article 95... those who do not accept... the matter is accepted. There's a motion on the 96th article, I'm having it read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Court of Ministers shall change the terms of the declaration, which shall be carried out by the Council of Ministers, in Article 96 of the Law Bill 533. Müslüm Doğan Merkel Danış Beştaş Erol Dora Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Garo Paylan Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0293par0763	We disagree, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0764	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0294par0765	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0288par0766	I'm having it read. Reason: The amendment aims to clarify the text of matter. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 96th and last item to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. The votes of the articles are complete. Now, according to the Interior Charter 86, Nüğde MP Erdogan Özegen is in favour of showing the color of the game. Here you go, Mr. Özegen.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0295par0774	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my behalf on behalf of the Honorable Laws of Tax Laws 533, and on behalf of the Bill of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I hereby salute your high council. Of course, it's a long law text -- now my friends say it's over -- but in the AK PARTI administrations, indeed, our Parliament has implemented many reformary regulations. In fact, today's bill, which we're going to discuss and vote on, includes very important arrangements that opposition speakers actually mention, which they also participate in. We know that without reflecting the effects of the economic crisis around the world, particularly the fight against terrorism in our country, the AK PARTI government, which has closed economic periods with continuous growth tables in our country, has done so with a series of reform steps. So, the law that we're talking about today has revolutionized reforms in many areas. To illustrate one example: In this country, we are now making a truly revolutionary arrangement in the Law on Executive and Bankruption, when businessmen have been unable to receive their debts and collect their debts for a long time. Is this the only way we're doing this? Again, while many of our opposition spokesman friends here criticize the method and its source, we see that a large resource has been mobilized again to produce, to add life water to the economy, to open the way for employment, to increase production -- about 18 billion -- was mentioned here. When we look at all of this, in this 96-point bill, we're really doing a lot of reforming, many of which are in today's economic conditions, with the producer, the job, the production, the production, the production, the investment, and the development of our country. In fact, it's been known to all of us that the AK PARTY is a government that has raised Turkey threefold in 15 years with a series of reforms. Of course, our valued lawmakers, who have spoken here as opposition, have sold this, sold this, sold this, but there's a rule in mathematics, 2 times 2 is 4. Our economy has grown threefold in the AK PARTI administrations for fifteen years, so in terms of both the buying and buying parity in this country, we see that our country has grown threefold in 15 years despite all the negatives. What are you growing up to do? Despite all the custody centers inside and out, despite all the economic embargos and despite all the resistance, if there's a power that can increase the economy threefold, it's the most important indication that our power has a reformist understanding. (AC PARTY APPLAUSE) Here we are today discussing a bill that contains many reforms. On this bill, I say that my vote is the color of my vote, and I salute you, all of you, to your great delegation.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0296par0780	Thank you. Alternate Slap Congressman Ancient Durmaz will speak. Mr. Durmaz, please.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0297par0784	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the High Council, of course, many of our friends have missed a lot. This bag was presented with very valuable opinions during the talks of the law. I listened to my precious friend. Of course, in politics, 2+2 isn't always 4. The AK PARTY, which has been in power for 16 years, shows that two and two are not equal to four. What does it show with? Every month we bring a pamphlet like this as a bag of laws, without using the necessary fellowship commissions, we rush it through this House, but many of them don't find their target. Our intention and our happiness will be to ensure that all of us, not simply yours, but the desired development, the development of this country. Would my congressman listen if I said hello to Tripoli?
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0298par0787	Peace be upon you, and peace be upon you from Tripoli.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0297par0788	Yes, thank you. Again, of course, there's a minister, who's named after him, who's now -- a chance for us as well. Friends, we all have children and grandchildren. I'm asking all of you, and I'm inviting you to think on your conscience: would any of you take your child to a subcontractor or a contract teacher and hand him over for education and training? You wouldn't believe it, but, of course, desperate, poor, people in the slums of cities have to accept it as mandatory.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0299par0790	All the teachers in private schools have contracts, Mr. Ancient.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0297par0791	Here, national education -- as in the name of it -- has to get rid of subcontractorization with all of us in common. Madam Secretary has agreed several times that this country needs 109,850 teachers, if I'm not mistaken. Come, in this bag of laws, let's give our Minister's staff to those teachers who need the national education of our country. So the teacher, educated, finished school, took pedagogic formation, took the test, and we're taking this teacher again, again, again, in many areas, where we've always talked about him, and we're interviewing him in an unregistered area. I think it's a good idea for all of you to think about it on your conscience. In a 96-point law, the Republican People's Party Group has declared a negative view of eight articles that we do not see in the interest of the Republic of Turkey. If he had listened to our proposals, we would have expressed our views at the point of correcting them with motions made by both the Commission and the Supreme Assembly. We have found that they are not in accordance with the legal logic, but they are in violation of our Constitution. In a number of articles, we found that there was a lack of fairness, equality, justice. We've moved some of them to a point of mutual agreement. This is a positive development on behalf of the High Assembly and the friends who work on that Commission, but unfortunately for some of them we have reached a compromise, but as for the High Assembly, we have also found that these compromises, this common mind, are not considered. In contrast, we have given our support to many articles that benefit the right, the law, every citizen of this country. Our hope, our hope, our hope, our hope, our hope for the future of our country -- is that our criticism here is being discussed in the next bag of laws or parliament, and I hope that this 96-point bag bill will be a blessing to our country as soon as the EC PARTI group considers the constructive criticism, the contributions, the openings in this country. I believe that any further contributions are necessary by the AK PARTY Group. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-21sit09spe0300par0795	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. Durmaz. Congressmans, this concludes all negotiations on the bill. The entire bill is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] As a result of a clear vote on the amendments to certain laws and laws by tax laws: ▪ Used Number of Votes : 228 [[x]] Mustafa Düççük Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoğlu So the bill is accepted and legalized, and good luck. We will begin negotiations with Bill 535. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other work on our agenda, it is Thursday (March 22nd 2018) at 14 p.m. to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I wish you good night, closing the assembly at 00.
