tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first out-of-date statement belongs to our national poet and Burdur MP Mehmet Akif Ersoy, the first legislature of the Turkish Parliament, and Burdur MP Bayram Özçelik, who asked for the anniversary of the birth and death of Burdur. Here you go, Mr. Originality. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0002par0008	Mr. President, first Deputy Biga, then Deputy Burdur. Biga is where he's chosen, Bur is where he's assigned.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0003par0012	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-top promise from our late Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who is full of flag, nation, state, and faith that reflects our national values, character, and ideals, as part of the 82nd anniversary of the birth of our late Mehmet Akif Ersoy on December 20th, December 27th. I salute your high council. I'd like to thank our Parliament Speaker, Mr. Mustafa Sentop, for his promise. Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who was well-liked by the Burdur people in the First Assembly, who served as the legislator of the Burdur people in the First Assembly, was named Mehmet Akif Ersoy at our university in 2006 as a sign of the tyranny of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the people of Burdur. Our university will then lead the Aquif Ersoy Applications and Research Centre at the adoption of the March 12 Istiklal March (March 12th) and the memorial ceremony of Akif. ==History==Mehmet was the son of Tahir Bey, and was elected to Mebus at the age of 48. He worked in the Councils of Maarif and Irishah, the poet of our Istiklal anthem. We can't understand the national struggle spirit given in Anatolia without knowing Mehmet Akif. Mehmet Akif is a public man who knows the central and locality as he travels Asia Minor with his intellectual identity. Medrese is a religious man with knowledge and knowledge to preach in mosques. A scholar with religious knowledge and knowledge enough to translate the Qur'an. He is a scholar with knowledge of university education and science. He's a poet because he's naturally fond of literature and art. On top of all that, Mehmet Akif is a patriot who opposes the invasion of the Anatolian lands and travels through Anatolia. Mehmet Akif, as in the past, is now inspired by our youth. We like Mehmet Akif. Because he's religious. We love Akif (Akif) because he is the man who lives as he believes. We love Akif. Because he does not shut up in the face of injustice. We love the Akif....for standing next to the strange guru of the oppressed. We love Akif (Akif) because he did not sell the Istliklal March. We're just beginning to understand the ideas that shed light on the deadlocks of Western-loving intellectuals who cut ties with their people during the country's difficult times. The idea that youth who struggles with ancient and inhuman ideas under the name of modernism will first read and try to understand, Akif. The main challenge of Mehmet Akif is that on one hand, there are locals and nationals, and on the other, there are those who think they're copycats. On one hand there are those who serve this nation, and on the other there are those who defame people, and there are those who humiliate them. On one side is the nation of authority. On the other side, there are guardians who do not believe. On one hand, there are those who defend their lives for the future of the young men of this country, and on the other, those who sacrifice the young to their blind ideology. On the one hand, the builders, the builders, the fires on the other. He who wants him, says, "He who wants him, he who wants him is our Akif. " Because he sees the so-called and fundamental piety in it, he sees the patriotism in its heroic work, and he sees a vision of a great civilization with national and spiritual values. Dear MPs, do not be afraid if the ruler of his country is the guide of the statesmen, and he goes on leave, and Jonah is Emre, and Haci Bektat is his guardian, and Hajji is his guardian. Don't worry, don't hesitate, if there's a president's leading book, or Mehmet Akif, running his country, because there's a breeze of tears in his heart. If there is persecution on one side and there is persecution on the other, don't worry about what will happen to Turkey's attitude? Mehmet Akif drew a path like this: I can't applaud persecution, I can't love a tyrant; I can't stand in the past and curse for the pleasure of the one who comes. When someone attacks me, I strangle them! - You can't! - At least I'll get rid of him. I've been in love since I was born; He's never been on a leash to me, golden tulip! If I'm mild, who says I'm a docile sheep? Maybe it'll cut, but I won't be able to pull my neck! When I see a bleeding wound, my heart aches, I'll take a whip to ease him, I'll double-dip him! Don't mind me and go! I can't. I'll get it. I'll chew, I'll chew, I'll hold back the right! [[From the AK PARTY rows (Bravo!) The voices, the applause]] Let Fatiha be our best gift for the soul of Mehmet Akif. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0004par0035	Thank you. The second out-of-date statement belongs to Ankara MP Mevlüt Karakaya, who wants to mark the anniversary of the delegation's arrival in Ankara, consisting of members of Gazi Mustafa Kemal and Sivas Congress. Here you go, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0005par0040	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are tomorrow 27 December, the 99th anniversary of Gazi Mustafa Kemal and the Branch Committee's arrival in Ankara. I took this opportunity to make a promise. I salute you and the great Turkish nation. By 1919, the general situation was that we were defeated by the First World War. As a result, many parts of our country, especially Istanbul, were occupied. Ankara was occupied by British and French soldiers. At the train station, the British flag was drawn, and the French flag was drawn in that building, against the nation of Taşhan -- then our first Assembly. On May 19, 1919, Mustafa Kemal Pasha came to Samsun; and he went to Amasya, and to Erzurum, and to Sivas. Ankara was designated the meeting place of the Branch Committee elected after the Erzurum and Sivas Congress. On this occasion, Mustafa Kemal Pasha and the Branch Committee, who spent the last night in the village of Bala Beynam through Sivas, Kayseri and Kırşehir, reached Ankara on 27 December. Dear MPs are the red-hot day of Turkish history on December 27th. In the red days of the Oğuz tradition, the regiment is formed. When a new state will be established and a new gentleman will be elected, the people will form a new regiment. This grandmother is seen in the Turkish arm of Oğuz. For these reasons, the Oğuz have never been without a state in history. His name is Oğuz, and his bloodline is for Oğuz/ He chooses his own brain or for his own country. They were the foundation of Seljuklu, who built Anatolia. They were at the heart of the Ottoman racer on three continents. On December 27, 1919, they were the basis of the republic, saying: "We came to see you, Paşam. We came to die for this country." According to the custom, a banner was set up in front of the Coffee of Ephesus, signaling the formation of the regiment. On the morning of Mustafa Kemal's arrival in Ankara, the banner was set. The young men gathered in front of the coffee dressed in their national clothes. And from nearby villages also came in torrents. The Seğmen regiment was founded with 3,000 horsemen, 700 foot-wearing suits. First they came to the mosque of Hajji Bayram and sacrificed. At noon, tens of thousands of civilians in Dikmen Keklikpınar were in the red age of the regiment, including Ankarans and the sister-in-laws. The last hope of salvation would come from there. The sound of a distant car honking made all the people move. The red hill was filled with dust, applause and ▪ Their voices were roaring the earth and the sky. From the hills of Çankaya and Dikmen, beautiful vocal memories were reading salt and emancipation. Ankara Mufti Rıfat Kövekçi was praying in front of the Seğmen regiment. Welcome to our red day, you have illuminated our red day. They called Mustafa Kemal Pasha. According to the Oğuz ritual on December 27th, the Ankarans had formed a regiment, choosing the brain, giving the signal that the new state would be formed that day. On this occasion, I honor and thank all of our martyrs, the great Leader Ataturk, his comrades, and all of our martyrs. On 27 December it was also the anniversary of the death of our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy. Without entering, I salute your grand delegation with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0006par0046	Thank you. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırözer, who wants to talk about Eskişehir's problems. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0007par0051	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. From time to time, I share with you the developments of our Eskişehir, and our expectations of the political institution. That's what I'm gonna do today. Look, if I've never spoken on this stand, I've mentioned the path of death ten times. Eskişehir, Seyitgazi, Cırka, and the highway to the Afyon province border. There were five accidents on that road last night. Another citizen has lost his life. I'm just saying that because there have been about 500 accidents on this road in the last five years, dozens of our citizens have lost their lives. In Eskişehir, the governorship, the gendarmes, the municipalities, the people have a demand, we MPs have a demand, but it hasn't been made in decades. We're asking in the budget, look at the answer: production will be proposed to the future investment programme, which means it hasn't even been entered into the investment programme yet. It's hard not to rebel against the fact that human life is so worthless, my dear friends. When we're talking about 40a, Seyitgazi, we have, you know, our country's national asset, the Mineral Bor Factory. This factory is our national asset. Not just our Eskişehir, but the whole of Turkey is proud of this factory, but we have a problem with this factory; the partisan attitude in hiring personnel. Look, I'm going to name you Ferdi Lighter, Deliverance Nice. Look, in 2003, he sold his farm to the Mines, Ferdi Lightup, and he earned natural rights for it. He's been interviewed 17 times and rejected 17 times. Now there are five recruitment ads on the factory's website. We'll see if they get Ferdi Çakmak or his friends. Similarly, on the way here today, our fellow workers, who work as subcontractors, who work at the same Centipede, have asked me to announce our call to you, through you, to all Turkey. Our ancient city and its citizens face another danger of ruining the quality of life's peace. That's the thermal plant project that's supposed to be built on our fertile Alpu Plain in Tepebaşı district. We Eskişehirans are against this poison plant. We don't want this plant that will contaminate our fresh air, finish our fertile land, agriculture, and livestock, polluting our waters, and make 900,000 Eskişehirmen breathe poison. The courts are calling off the cancellations one after the other. From every point of view, the Eskişehir are holding hands. The tender has been postponed five times so far, but we don't want a delay anymore, we want a cancellation. Last week, a happy news came from Circeçeköy from Thrace. There, too, NGOs, our deputies, have been resisting for a long time. The project was cancelled after the ruling MPs, including Mr. Mustafa Sentop, who led today's session, presented their opposition. We call it the head of our poor Eskişehir. We call on all parties, especially the ruling party, and the ministry's bureaucracy, to give up this poison plant. My dear friends, we have a growing water problem. The Badger Dam is the only source of drinking water, no alternative. There's pollution now, and there's a huge drop in water due to global warming and drought. So we risk not providing drinking and using water from this dam to our Eskişehir. The solution is clear: in the doubles, in the Sakarya River, where Sakaryah was born, we have clean water supply, and this water must be delivered to our city immediately. So far, our attempts have yielded no results. Once again, I call on all institutions, especially the State Waterworks: If this water is not provided, even if we survive the year 2019, the Eskişehir people will have to go through 2020. My dear friends, a city hospital has recently opened in our city. Look, before my assessments, I'm passing on a citizen's sharing, social media sharing. I'm starting: I'm sorry, but the truth is, no one will forgive me, but if the citizen is leaving the hospital with a curse, I won't believe it if I don't live myself. Yeah, an investment? Investment. Let not those who do not do their duty fill up their couches in vain. Question number one, security guards. The second problem is that the Akfen staff, like the Matrix, are walking around in front of the citizen -- the company that's building it -- scolding the cleaner and assistant staff. The third problem is some nurses' insensitivity. The fourth problem is the ignorance that guidance personnel themselves need guidance. I wonder what management does here. Construction dust is on the walls of the obstetrics department. There is a risk of hygiene and infection for a citizen born at six in the morning. If they wait until six in the evening and drive him mad, then there is a job. My dear friends, the author of these lines was a fellow citizen of the Eskişehir County Service of the Justice and Development Party. I'm just saying that because he had to leave post-sharing duty. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Will you let me finish, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0008par0063	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0007par0064	My dear friends, such as the problems with city hospitals in different cities, the difficulty of transportation in Eskişehir, the largeness of the venue, and therefore the setback of the work, are among the common problems of both patients and hospital employees. The building is not suitable for the hospital. Patients and staff who want to make an interstory connection or switch have to wait for minutes in the elevator. For example, a health worker trying to go from one administrative department to another takes 45 minutes just to get to his unit. People are disappearing in the hospital. Our Eskişehir State Hospital was evacuated because of the construction of the city hospital, leaving all medical supplies in it that would be called a national fortune. Mrs. Zübeyde Birth and Children's Disease Hospital has been evacuated. Most of Jonah's Emre Hospital has been moved there, leaving equipment in it. More than 2,000 employees working at the state hospital have been moved here in a great deal of unhappiness. Some employees were forced to work completely disrespectfully in the way they didn't want to. The staff isn't happy. The replaced company staff is not in the same capacity, but in the effort to learn their profession there. That's why the tests, the surgeries, they're getting longer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm just finishing up a few last words.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0009par0070	Okay, fine.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0007par0071	There's a two-headed administration at the hospital; the company that builds it and the chief of medicine. What do you expect to happen when the city hospital opens? Make it easier for citizens to get health care there, reduce the burden of other hospitals. But there's been a significant increase in the number of patients since the city hospital opened at Yunus Emre Hospital and our medical school. Even though there's so much investment going on, it's happening. Look, 25th of the month today, the employee's return shares have not been paid. Every day the doctors get a message. Many medicines have a problem supplying it. There's not a single pharmacy around the city hospital. Due to these basic difficulties, city hospitals presented to the public in the five-star hotel air have been the basis of problems, as there are no solutions. So, what do we say, my dear friends? Once again, I would like to point out that we are in favor of our citizens getting the best, best, most qualified health care, equal access, free and free of charge. Unfortunately, city hospitals don't serve that purpose, they won't. I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0010par0079	Dear friends, now, I'm going to give my word to the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system for a minute. After these words, I will meet the demands of the members of the group's vice presidents. Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0011par0083	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, there have been days of public debate over whether or not the deadline for zoning peace will be extended. We want to extend the deadline for zoning peace, but only to extend the time to pay for it. Otherwise, millions of illegal construction and looting continue throughout Turkey. Treasure fields, forest fields, and mera fields are being looted. Let the citizen be given an additional ten to fifteen days, while the citizen takes a picture of the building he's building and has it measured and applied online. Let only time be given to pay for it, the citizen has a financial problem. Otherwise, there are still thousands of illegal constructions all over Turkey. It's getting impossible. While the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is doing this extension, I would like to make sure that he considers this criteria and extends the deadline financially only as an application for payment, but otherwise he will have to complete the application in ten to fifteen days, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0010par0085	Mr. Celebrity...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0012par0087	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the standards declared in the Official Gazette, at least 1 biomedical engineer is required to employ in private hospitals capable of 200 and higher beds and 100 beds. Again, a decision made by the Council of Ministers in 2005 was required to establish a unit of biomedical services and calibration within the institution or to buy these services from another institution. Biomedical engineers who can't take the KPSS test and can't be assigned are still waiting. When will the appointments be held? The continued development of health technologies increases the need for graduates of biomedical engineering. In this context, in 2019, does the Ministry of Health work to employ a staffed or contracted biomedical engineer? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0013par0090	Mr. Hancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0014par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. He was also condemned to hunger in 2019, with minimum wage. Electricity has increased by about 40 percent since the beginning of the year. Then, after a 10% discount, the Treasury and Finance Minister, Mr. Berat Collarak, who marketed it as good news to the public, said we had a strong performance in the economy in 2018. I'm going to sum up in two sentences what this powerful performance is like. Two weeks ago, in the district of Bafra of Samsun, a textile factory that has worked for many years put 130 workers on ten days' leave. The workers went to the factory the other day to start work, but there were no factories, no machines; the owners of the business machines, the raw materials in the middle of the night, and they disappeared. Because of what Mr. Collarak called a strong performance in the economy, factories are now winging and flying.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0013par0094	Mr. Boogeyman...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0015par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. What choice did Mr. Kilicdaroglu have at the group meeting yesterday? I'm going to vote for PARTI. It says. Give it to me, brother, you'll crawl more. He used his expressions. From here, I would like to address Mr. Kilicdaroğlu: It is fitting to stand upright, not to crawl for the heroics. As in the battle of the future, the heroics are honorable and stiff-headed braves, and the Kahramanmarash know exactly where to use their choice, how to use it, how to use it. As in every election, my fellow citizens and our beloved nation, CHP and Kilicdaroglu, who have given the answer to the main opposition in the polls, will give the answer to their attempts to mislead the public on March 31st. I blame this unfortunate statement and Mr. Kilicdaroglu, and I invite you to apologize to the people of Kahramanmarash. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0016par0100	Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0017par0102	Thank you, Mr. President. Six hundred and fifty workers lost their jobs at the Meat Silver Mining Company in Kütahiah, and they haven't received their wages in the last three months. Beyond that, right now, thousands of workers, including other sectors, are at the door. Turkey's 7th province of Kütahya is the proportion of particulates in air pollution. According to the Court reports, the mayor of Kütahya, whose corruption and wastes are stable, is still on duty, not even a trustee was appointed. Cleaning workers who work for the municipality have been unable to receive their wages for months or are late. While the activities of the mayor of Kütahya are stable with waste and corruption, the appointment of trustees is still delayed and the removal of these irregularities in Kütahya. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0018par0106	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0019par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. There is an interesting scene in Tolstoy's harp and peace: the hero of Rome sees the sun in the sky when he falls on his back and looks at it with awe and awe. He sees the sun with his heart this time he's never seen it before. People travel to see many historical and of course beauty, but also the greatest miracle of all, without seeing their own presence, says Saint Augustine. Man is the greatest mystery of all. Nothing can change this secret. Getting to know yourself is always on the way. You can never play your true role without knowing yourself. As Jonah said, knowledge is knowledge, knowledge is self-knowledge. If you do not know yourself, it is a dry work. Without education of values, we will not fail.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0020par0111	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0021par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Five of our soldiers were injured yesterday in the accident of the Cobra-2 armored vehicle carrying our troops in search of mines planted by the traitor PKK terrorist organization in December district of Iğdır Province. Our fellow resident, Specialist Corporal Jacob Gormez, who was severely injured and unable to be saved despite all the interference in the accident, has become a martyr. I pray for the mercy of Almighty God, who will be buried at Nene Hatun Martyrship in Darica district of Kopeeli, and for the immediate healing of our soldiers who were injured in the accident. In the words of our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who would not sacrifice this paradise for the sake of your homeland? / Shoheda will burst, if you squeeze the ground. On the 82nd anniversary of his death, our national poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy {\pos (192,220) }remembers all our martyrs and veterans who gave their lives for this paradise without blinking.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0022par0116	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0023par0118	Thank you, Mr. President. It's the last days of the year 2018. The year 2018 will also be remembered for the deaths of workers in our country. On 22/12/2018, our 20 - year - old brother, Güral Karadoğan, died as a result of a cave-in in the copper mine in our village of Adıyaman. I wish God's mercy to our fellow worker, patience and condolences to all his relatives. In the first 11 months of 2018, a total of 62 workers were killed in the mines, while 1.797 workers were killed in various fields. In 2019, in the same way, all workers and workers await the necessary measures to ensure that our workers do not lose their lives in the event of business accidents. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0024par0123	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0025par0125	I'm asking the Minister of Health: 1) It has been reported that the treasured land for construction of the SGK service building planned to be built in Denizli Sarayköy district has not been given to your Ministry for two years due to bureaucratic transactions between ministries and institutions. We want these transactions quickly completed, the transfer and allocation of the land to the Social Security Agency to be built quickly. 2) Mr. Secretary, medicine, medical equipment and materials sectors are in crisis. 80% of these materials come from abroad. Due to increased exchange rates, there are difficulties in supplying vital drugs. Given these circumstances, do you have any new plans to provide us with medicine, medical equipment, and materials? When will our healthcare sector be free of external dependency? What measures do you intend to take to overcome the difficulties in this area? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0026par0129	Mr. Ilhan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0027par0131	Thank you, Mr. President. Last night at 2:45 a.m., there was a bus accident in Akpınar district of Kırşehir. We have 3 dead and 35 injured in the accident. I ask God's mercy for those who die, his condolences for those who are near, and for those who are wounded. All of the wounded lie in various hospitals in Kırşehir. Only one was transferred to Kayseri, because there were no plastic surgeons. This is where I'm speaking to the Ministry of Health, and I want plastic surgeons, children's specialists, obstetrician and breast specialists to be assigned to Kırşehir Hospital.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0028par0135	Mr. Sumer...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0029par0137	Thank you, Mr. President. Violence against women and children in our country is increasing day by day. Today, a person has stabbed his wife in the face and head with a hammer and stabbed her to death. Another young woman was stabbed in Adana the other day. Another person in Adana injured his wife by pouring boiling water on her. These events in just one week are never unique. Violence against women is a violation of human rights, a crime. It is our great Parliament's responsibility to read the facts behind the violence correctly, to present the solutions correctly. The problem is not the law, but the monitoring and control of law enforcement. Before more of our women, our child, is hurt, I urge the authorities to take responsibility immediately. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0030par0141	Mr. Azanal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0031par0143	Mr. President, I have been promised in our group meeting yesterday that the year of Gobeklitepe was declared by our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan in 2019. Gobeklitepe is located about 15km northeast of my hometown of Şanlıurfa, on the Tektek Mountains. It's part of what's now known as the fertile crescent. The fertile crescent is a mark of civilization, the first cities in history, agricultural production, trade, bureaucracy, writing, and state. In addition to this important position, Gobeklitepe is 6,500 years older than the Ggantija Temple in Malta, 7,000 years older than Stonehenge in England, and 7,500 years older than the pyramids of Egypt. Gobeklitepe, which has been on the temporary list since 2011, was placed on the UNESCO World Heritage List in 2018. Yesterday's Gobeklitepe...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0030par0146	Mr. Karasu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0032par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. Due to two days of system failure at Sivas State Hospital, which was opened about three years ago, still experiencing technical and physical problems, in our province, patient and hospital services have been unable to be performed outside the emergency room. In our city, where winter conditions are getting heavy, the victims of citizens from villages and towns to the hospital have increased, and there have been serious problems between sick and sick relatives and health workers. While there was no system failure during the previous time of work with a different software company, a new tender was made a year and a half ago, even though it was overpriced, a firm named Fonet was still given this tender. It is known to all employees that the state hospital has been damaged by this tender. The company's services in other counties have also experienced serious difficulties, which has been under way with Balıkesir State Hospital. In this context, who are the owners? Are the authorities aware that there have been problems in other provinces where the same firm has been tendered? If so, how have solutions been created? This problem in our province...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0030par0151	Mr. Ceylan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0033par0153	The answer to the question that I had directed to the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure about the lack of winter flights and the cost of Bozcaada and Gökceada was not cheap. He continues to present terms from 40 years ago on the line of Gestas, Bosphorus, and Islands, which should have served, not profit. A citizen who works in Çanakkale, and resides in Eceabat (Eceabat) has a monthly transport fee of around 200 TL. Another problem similar to Çanakkale is the removal of Istanbul-Chanakkale aircraft flights. The Istanbul-Thanakkale-Istanbul campaigns, which continued for a while with a private airline's agreement with GESTASISH, ended on October 26th. The six-month campaigns of THY have not been conducted since 2009. So Çanakkale is condemned to the profitability of GESTASH, ignoring public interest. People of Çanakkale should not be condemned to the profitability of power companies.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0030par0155	Mr. Fendoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Malatya Turgut Özal Medical Center is an institution that serves the region with the capacity of 1,200 beds, 286 (ICU). The Syrian patients who have been treated in this institution will receive about $25m from the Ministry of Health for treatment costs. The immediate payment of this amount is of great importance to the continuation of the ministry. Again, is it clear when the tender for our Battalgazi State Hospital, which has been cancelled in the tender phase of our Malatya province, will be held and how soon the hospital will be finished? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0035par0161	Mr. Gergerlioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0036par0163	Thank you, Mr. President. There are irregularities and irregularities in security investigations. I'd like to give an example: Kenan Ozturk is a health technician. Security investigation was negative, appeals to the court, 11. The Supreme Court, unfortunately, has approved the decision for the following reasons: to attend the BDP's congress, to pull the rope at this congress, to condemn the massacre of Roboski at the university. For reasons like this, he's made up his mind. In addition, in many cases, in violation of Article 38 of the Constitution, the causality of innocence is rejected due to issues related to the person's relatives. Although there is no negative information about the person in these chips, this has been explicitly confirmed, but is rejected due to issues related to the relatives. Security investigations have become a total disaster, affecting the fate of many people, we need to get back to the state of law as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0035par0165	Dear friends, I will now meet the demands of the members of the group. Mr. Alekalioglu, the deputy president of the group, please come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0037par0168	Mr. President, you know, we have a classicized definition and a number of martyrs as we present the memory of our martyrs, as we pay tribute to them. I need to make a correction on this. This is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, a statement of correction, please accept it, because I think the TBMM should be sensitive to the subject. As you can see, a sentence of 90 thousand people freezing to death without firing a bullet during the talk of the Sarikami matter is in everyone's mouths who's been talking about it for many years. The matter has also been explained in the General Staff's records. Our total frozen to death due to Operation Yellowkamis is eight in the General Staff's records, my friends. Our deaths, our martyrs, our freezings, our diseased deaths, add 23 to them, my friends. The Russians have lost more than we have. The number of Russians freezing to death is 9,000, and 33 more casualties in their attempts to invade our homeland under this operation, my friends. Five of those who froze to death in the Russian prison camp in the bath house, and died of hunger, and died of disease, and with them our total death, and our martyr, add twenty-three. There's nothing behind my request for a specific fix on this matter: the death of one person and the death of one person is precious, but speaking with historical knowledge, the Clave is the main place where we must preserve our will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0038par0175	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0037par0176	78 of all our military assets in that area, including our reserve battalions. So, through these numbers, a group of eager people came through the Bridge Sheriff, and this lack of information is his intentional abuse. In the mountains of Allahuekber, where the 98th, 88th and 89th regiments died without firing a single bullet, the number of our deaths will be threefold, my friends. Therefore, the operation there should be taken care to establish sentences that will feed a perception as if military action is the movement of another country. Sarkami is a resistance line with Erzurum behind it. Just as we were martyred in Çanakkale with 100,000, then we died here in vain after the fleets that were waging the war. If we don't say so, there was a great line of national defense, which had the back of Erzurum, there was all sorts of sacrifices. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0038par0179	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0037par0180	It's a strategy that only our humility to bad weather increases our losses. The Russians who came to fight with us there have suffered more losses than we have. That's my request for correction. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0038par0182	Thank you. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0039par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there have been some very important events in our region that have been very important to Turkey for many years. As we look at the processes of those events today, Turkey has changed all balances in our region, and these changes have been in Turkey's favor, as well. Especially considering the blocks Turkey has formed along with Russia and Iran, with the Astana and Sochi process, it is necessary to view this process as positive steps. In addition, Operation Firat Shield and DEAŞ balloon have been detonated, the olive branch and the hall of terror have been destroyed, attempts to form a state north of Iraq have been put on the shelf, a decisive stance against Turkish sovereignty in the East Mediterranean and Cyprus has been set and the new Middle East plan planned for the isolation of Qatar (Katar) has been carried out. In total view of these, a major imperialist project aimed at Turkey's territorial integrity, its unity in the future has hit the wall of Turkey. Finally, it is necessary to look at what happened after the decision by the United States to withdraw from Syria. When this decision to withdraw came as a surprise, the Syrian cards began to mix again. Of course, for Turkey, for Ankara...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0040par0189	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0039par0190	...priority is that there is no gap in the US troops' withdrawal process and that Ankara is co-ordinated. On the other hand, when we look at these developments, the resignation of Brett McGurk, the last special representative in the fight against DEASH after the US decision to withdraw, is an important clue. In Iraq, where he served in 2004-2009, McGurk, a name that created the conditions for the birth of the DEASH, had been stripped off and taken plaques from his hands during his five-year mission in Syria. We have deep differences about retreating with Trump. He resigned. According to reports of the White House's anti-Turkish anti-Turkish anti-Turkish Mattis, we are also learning that after the withdrawal of the United States from Syria, Turkey is furious with news that it will target the YPG (YPG) and offers its resignation.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0041par0194	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0039par0195	Again, I felt as though I had been punched in the stomach by US Central Forces Commander General Votel. His interpretation of development is another clue, and how Turkey's move, which convinced the United States to withdraw, puts a set in front of a major project, which the staff of that project immediately felt the need to abandon the ship. History, of course, will write these days, and perhaps those who don't see these facts today will read and learn from the history books when the day comes, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0041par0196	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0042par0199	Mr. President, there are numbers that have been released today about the people who were executed under probation. This number has increased 354 times over 17 years. So there was violence, there were great threats, and the judicial process was intense. There are about 20,000 children, about 633,000 people in total, who are subject to probation. Now, of course, these are the numbers that require rethinking the concepts of crime and punishment. There are around 300,000 names in prisons, about 630,000 probationary releases out there, which means a million people are being sentenced to prison or out of prison. Of course, these figures, not just -- in the nail -- criminals -- require him to talk about crime, talk about the criminal system, confront the system, face the judicial system, the education system, the economic system, as a whole. Mr. President, again, very interesting polemics are being done through the numbers given to the public about minimum wage, which are being done as if the minimum wage of $2.020 is at the level of developed countries. Once, compared to last year, the minimum wage -- which was $416 last year -- has now increased to over 2,000 liras -- went down to $377. In the Netherlands, that figure is $1,800, and the average European Union is around a thousand dollars. Therefore, in terms of the real cost of the minimum wage increase, you must at least inform the public that it is healthier.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0041par0202	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0042par0203	Mr. President, from time to time, we've been given serious problems from the local community, and we share them here, but unfortunately, we don't see a serious enough control function for our sharing. Yesterday, a concrete claim came from Teman. In a place such as Tetman, about 2,000 people have taken advantage of their over 65-year-old aid or disability benefits, and because of the vote distribution in the election, the trustee has stopped all aid and will choose according to the table that will emerge after the election. We don't usually want to share these kinds of claims when they come in. We don't want to share them as well. Because it's an embarrassing painting, and it's really embarrassing, and even in social aid, a partisan attitude, even about the disabled, the elderly, doesn't benefit anyone, but we think it's becoming a completely different level of propaganda, and we're beginning to think it's becoming a huge campaign.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0041par0205	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0042par0206	And we can't answer the written questions we've been asking about the fact that the subcontractors in Kars have not been paid in a long time. We're looking for the firm, and it's very interesting that the company says: "We can't get money from the municipality for six months, but we're trying to pay wages for at least two months backwards. We're asking the Ministry of Internal Affairs now, and the Ministry of Interior says: "Ask the Bank of Ills. We're asking the Bank of Provinces, and the Bank of Provinces says: "This is going to enter into bank secrets, and we can't do control operations in these conditions, if we don't even know how much the municipality in Kars is owed, we can't even find out what the debt of the municipality in this country; what's going to do in this country, what does it mean, what does it say is the Bank of Parliament, and what does it say is the Bank of the Bank of Provinces. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0041par0208	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0043par0211	Thank you, Mr. President. Tomorrow is December 27th, a very important day for Turkey, for our national struggle and for Ankara. We have made a commitment today to meet a debt due to the possibility that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey may not be open tomorrow. First of all, it was evident by the way Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk was met on the backs of Dikmen on the arrival of Gazi Mustafa Kemal (Gazi Mustafa Kemal) in Ankara, where he was appointed and identified as the headquarters of our national struggle and national sovereignty, which continued with Amasya, Sivas and Erzurum. I believe that what the people of Ankara showed Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his friends, and in private, of course, the great attention that the voters showed, of course, was a source of moral, faith, power, and will riveting for our war of salvation. The support of Seğmen and Ankara members Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, on the way to the trial, the Battle of Liberation of Mustafa Kemal, the National Fight, the Faith and Determination of Faith. Therefore, we have a debt of gratitude, gratitude and respect as the People's Party of the Republic, the People's Assembly Group of Turkey, sir, who believes before and above all else in the Battle of Salvation, to all Ankarans, Ankaraans, especially their descendants in Ankara.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0044par0217	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0043par0218	In the same way, I pray to the Ankaraans and the leaders who were not alive that day to welcome Gazi Mustafa Kemal. Everyone must know that in this 780,500 square kilometers of geography, we will continue our thousand years of brotherhood together in this land together with Turk, Kurdish, Ankara, İstanbullus, Diyarbakırn, Sinoplus, Samsunlus, Muglali, and this nation together, without losing its unity, as long as the world stops. In this faith and determination, we salute Parliament and our beloved nation, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0044par0220	Thank you. Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0045par0223	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, thank you. I wish you good work. It's December 26th. I would like to say a few words about Mehmet Akif Ersoy, who died and died on December 27, 1936. In fact, every person in life has a search for meaning. Each of us is actually building a life story in our search for meaning. I think the most important thing about Akif is that he has made the values of his life, the values of the world of meaning, the values of a nation, and to see what those values are, I think it's enough to look at the Intriguable Anthem. It is possible to see the values of this search for meaning in the Imperial March, and it is possible to see the codes. It's not just about man, it's that if he makes a thousand obeisances with the Vecd, we see a system of values that attributes meaning to both man and nature and stone and mountain and soil. I think we're very lucky to look at it that way. I think it's meaningful to express it from behind a very important name, let's say, an important name that has written the Istlical Anthem, which has left an inheritance to a nation of its own, the ideas it's built. And I, too, will remember Him one more time. In the past week, he was presented with the Presidential Award for Culture and Art - the Prize for Loyalty, and the grandkids. When it's looked like this, I'd like to highlight this day as a loyalty. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0046par0229	Thank you. Dear friends, we're moving on. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 26/12/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. İstanbul MP Yavuz Aselalioglu and his friends suggested that the talks be held on Wednesday (January 26/12/2018) in a merger of 26/12/2018, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 31/10/2018 to study negative practices against Uygur Turks living in the eastern part of China. To explain the motive of the proposal, the proposal holder is on behalf of the good PARTI Group, Konya MP Fahrettin Yoshüsh. Here you go, Mr. Hill. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0047par0248	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are being treated inhumanely in China's eastern Turkic region of Turkey, where Muslim Turks are being treated as training camps, or concentration camps. The relatives of Uygur, Kazakh and Uzbek Turks, who have taken refuge in 26 countries, including Turkey, are especially being taken to camps. This is what the Chinese government does so that its relatives who have fled the country do not tell of the assimilation of China. The United Nations Human Rights Watch has called for immigrants from East Turkistan, not to extradite immigrants from East Turkistan in your country. Give asylum seekers a residence permit. If you return them, they will face life-threatening danger or lose their freedom, he says. 16 countries, including the United States, Canada, Germany, France, the UK and the Netherlands, are expressing the persecution of China against the Turks of East Turkia, which the world has brought to its public. In particular, Germany's Human Rights Representative has requested to visit the camps in China, but has been rejected by the Chinese government. The request of the United Nations Human Rights Organization to enter the camps has also been rejected by the Chinese government. The Chinese government has acknowledged the existence of camps, and the eastern Turkians are non-Chinese, incompetent. They're having trouble finding work. That's why we train them in training camps. They are also people who are prone to extremes and terrorism. Dear MPs, I've called several times from here; 11 Uygur Turks held in Istanbul's Ataturk Airport for two months are still not released. This is a sad situation for us because these people did not commit any crime in Turkey, they fled from the persecution of China in various ways and took refuge in our country as a motherland. It's really not very good for our government to have these people at the airport for two months. Now we say what are you waiting for? I mean, it's international law, it's all in order, so why don't you set these people free? Again, I would like to address the president of the Turkish Foreign Commission for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey: Mr. President, why don't you make a call as the Foreign Commission for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey while the entire world shares the suffering, suffering of the Turks of East Turkia? Again, I'm speaking to the Foreign Minister: Mr. Secretary, are you not interested in the persecution of East Turkistan? And once again, Mr. President, I ask you, Mr. President, these people are oppressed, these people are victims, these people are family members of all of us, religious leaders, why don't we make an attempt to defend the rights of these people? And in particular, what our Speaker of Parliament said on a television channel has hurt us deeply, they say, "Sir, we respect the territorial integrity of China." We can't say anything if the people are terrorized there. For him, we favor the territorial integrity of China. Dear lawmakers, no one opposes China's territorial integrity, but there's something our Speaker of Parliament probably doesn't know. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll put you through. There was an East Turkistan state founded in China, and it lived from 1933 until 1949, and this state was occupied and destroyed. So East Turkistan in China is a Turkish state, a Turkish country, not part of China. Don't read history wrongly, read history correctly, make good decisions, say the right words; I say the Grand Assembly invites 3 million for our brothers who are suffering in the camps for over 30 million Turks of East Turkia, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0048par0258	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the proposal, Samuel MP Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0049par0262	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the persecution of the Uygur Turks, are now known to all. Everyone's talking about it, but the State Department of the Republic of Turkey is the only one who doesn't talk about it. On September 5th, I filed a question motion, dear friends, asking the Uygur Turks in China: "Why don't you get information about this from the embassy? Why don't you give a note?" And we waited for an answer on these issues; there has been no answer since September 5th, and today is December 26th. Other than that, I asked the Secretary of State here at the General Assembly the other day, and when he came here, he didn't say anything about it, but he's still quiet. Why is the State Department quiet? He has to answer that. Dear friends, at the same time, 11 Uygur Turks are actually trapped at the airport. This has happened before. Uzbeks were also returned to Uzbekistan and killed. At the moment, the Uygur Turks are on edge, waiting at the airport for 11. If Turkey returns the state, these people can be killed and there is still no clarity, it's quite serious. From whomsoever comes a wrong, we oppose it, and whosoever is wronged, we oppose it, and whosoever is wronged, we stand for it; whether it be against the oppressor or the oppressed; whether it be against the Kurdish, or the Turk, or the Arab, or the Armenian, we stand against it, and we stand for it. Now 30 million Turks live in East Turkistan and cannot obtain citizenship. If these people haven't died, how have they been waiting to become citizens for years? I'm asking the Chinese authorities. The lack of citizenship is the primary problem. People flee from the persecution of China, but those who come to Turkey continue to have problems. Many come out of Uygur, but only a few of these people reach Turkey. People are losing their lives on the road. There is a group now marching from Istanbul to Ankara, and the Uygur Turks are marching from Istanbul to Ankara. Look, they're walking for freedom and rights in this cold, snowy weather, but there's not a word in the mainstream media. Dear friends, if people have walked from Istanbul to Ankara on this snowy winter day, there is a serious problem, and the Foreign Minister is still silent. The number of Uygur Turks registered in Turkey is estimated to be around 7,500, with the number of non-registers around 10,000. They cannot register for national education, because if they register their children, they are in danger of being sent to China. There are suicides because of this situation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Wait a second...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0050par0270	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0049par0271	Turkey is coming to Malaysia via Cambodia. People here throw out their passports and say they're from Turkey. People have problems in marriages because there's no citizenship. They're supposed to go to the Chinese consulate, but how do these people get to the consulate of a country they've already escaped from? They have trouble getting help, few people can get help. They need to be treated by paying for health care. Only one patient is said to have been operated on once by demand of 7,000 liras. They don't have work permits, they're on the lam, and they work very little. Abdulkadir Kurçan is a key leader of the Uygur Turks who have been a refugee in Turkey for thirteen years. He has been arrested due to a period of closeness with China, and will soon be extradited to China. Dear friends, I asked you last time: is there any share in this silence because of the $3.6 billion loan that Berat Colorrak had received from China? I'll ask you again, dear friends, until the Secretary of State answers this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0051par0275	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal, İzmir MP Mehmet Ali Çelebi. Here you go, Mr. Çelebi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0052par0279	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. Turkey has three Turkish groups that have so far been unable to live abroad and take care of their problems. One of them is 140,000 Turks living in West Thrace. We can't have enough of these right now, even though the Greeks say "Muslim Greek" and say "Muslim Greek" and do all sorts of insults. The second is the Turkmen, who live in Iraq, with 6.5 million in numbers. The third is perhaps the Uygur Turks who live in China, where we have committed the greatest injustice. China is an interesting country as a structure; it has a population of 1.4 billion, 90 percent of which are from the Han race, with a population of 10 per cent of which is 55 different ethnic identities. When we look at the position of the Uygur Turks, there are 20 to 25 million Muslims in China, which is roughly 1 percent of the population. The number of Uygur Turks is 9.5 million. There is a serious population engineering in the Uygur Autonomous Region in particular. Although there were 75% Uygur populations in 1949, the Han is now nearly 50-50. When we look at the importance of the Sincan region, we find that the region has oil, natural gas, uranium, rich gold and copper deposits; that's its primary importance for China. Second, half of the country's cotton needs are being removed from this area. The third reason is that this is a serious transit point for China; China wants to revive the Silk Road, so it weighs here. To understand the problem more deeply, a brief review of the US policy on the region is required. Since 2009, the US's strategic importance for China has increased since the enlargement policy was implemented towards South Asia. The close association of the United States with nations such as Myanmar and Cambodia has left China nervous. In particular, the U.S. sea trade cornering China has strengthened China's direction towards the West through the railways that pass through East Turkistan. Thus, for China, East Turkistan is becoming more important for security. After all, East Turkistan is a door to Europe for China. So, what policy of assimilation is applied to the Uygur Turks in this region? One, forced labor on harvest time. The Uygur Turks are forced to work during harvest times, called hash. They don't get paid, they don't have any social rights, and if they don't, they get fined. Even their children are forced to work. Young people, especially in social media, are under very strict supervision. There's even ten years in prison that way. Only the government can buy what farmers produce. In this regard, farmers become poor. The Chinese government seizes their land and gives it to Chinese immigrants.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0053par0286	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0052par0288	Besides, they're subject to racism. For example, there are Uygur Turks who have been killed for growing a beard. Most of them don't know their basic rights. For example, even an imam wedding is viewed as illegal religious activity here. They force Muslims to sell alcohol. They have banned religious names, imams are imprisoned. Women are forced to have abortions. Travel freedoms are restricted. What can we do in this context? As Turkey, we can contribute to the announcement of the problems of our relatives to the world, to the international platforms. We can provide information about modern human rights and living conditions, which we can express. Turkey can open up a consulate, meaning this, and Turkish NGOs can also open up representations around here, which is how we can act. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0054par0292	Denizli MP Ahmet Yıldız will speak on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Star.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0055par0294	Mr. President, my dear fellow lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on a motion to investigate the condition of our Uygur family members, given by the PARTI. I salute the General Assembly. There is no doubt that our historical, religious, cultural, and relatives of Uygur are one of the societies that contribute to the cultural wealth and diversity of China. They're an important part of the Turkish world, they see themselves as such, and so do we, and that's how we follow it. News of the Sincan Uygur Autonomous Region, East Turkistan, has been increasingly in our media and international media for some time. These reports suggest that other Muslim communities, as well as the Uygurs in the Sincan region, have been subjected to human rights violations. Among them, they are stressed that they are being held captive in camps and subjected to training. All these worrying reports are closely monitored by the Republic of Turkey. Unfortunately, there are also some karmines that confirm the allegations partially. For example, the decision adopted by the Chinese People's Republic of China Anti-Terror Law on October 9, 2018 on the implementation of the principles of the Sincar Uygur Autonomous Zone has been adopted through the decision adopted. Our anti-Chinese opponents, with concerns about these developments, suggest that developments in Sincan have been taken within the framework of the fight against terrorism. As Turkey, we always advocate the importance of international law and cooperation in the fight against terrorism, no matter where it is in the world, but we also say that in the fight against terrorism, universal law norms should be observed and that innocent people should be taken care of in the process of distinguishing from terrorists and radicals. We emphasize to our Chinese opponents the importance that at every occasion and on every level, the Uyghurs, our descendants, are respected for their human rights and that they continue to live in peace and peace in China. In the United Nations Council of Human Rights, we have recorded our expectations of the People's Republic of China in a diplomatic language. My fellow lawmakers, I also have a professional background to attend to, Mr. Secretary of State, and my colleagues in the Ministry. I'm sure he's being closely followed and sensitively dealt with by the People's Republic of China.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0056par0299	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0055par0300	At this stage, he thinks it's enough to be handled on a two-way level by the executive and with precision, that we don't need a parliamentary investigation at this stage, but, of course, both the administration and the Parliament will be followers of this issue. My respects, General Board.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0056par0303	Thank you. I submit to your votes the good party proposal: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 26/12/2018 (Today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On December 26, 2018, Kars MP has been proposed to hold talks on Wednesday (January 26/12/2018) in a joint merger of parliamentary research motions submitted to the Grand National Assembly in order to investigate all dimensions of the unlawfulness imposed by Hakkari MP Leyla Güven, who was held in prison in violation of legal regulations issued by Group Deputy President Ayhan Bilgen. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Kemal Peköz has been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Peköz. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0057par0319	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to my group's research motion. I salute the House. Before I begin my speech, I greet all of our arrested MPs, including our former Co-Chair Figen Yüksekdağ, Seoultin Demirtaş, MPs İdris Baluken and Sırrı Süryya Önder; Diyarbakır Metropolitan Co-Chair Gültan Kışanak, and all of our arrested co-chairs and party members. On November 4, 2016, the co-chairs and MPs of our party were detained in a midnight operation and arrested as a November 4th political coup to Turkey's political history. Since November 4, 2016, 17 of our MPs have been arrested, including our co-Chairs, and 10 of our MPs are already under arrest. Any of our MPs who are under arrest or still on trial will continue to be tried in a way that has no legal basis. Dear MPs, the trial of the case on which the only member of parliament, Leyla Güven, who was held in prison, was also held today in Diyarbakır, and his detention was decided to continue. The trial was postponed to January 25, 2019, but Leyla Güven was to be released today, even though she was late. Why should Layla Güven be released and among us, and I will try to explain it to you in a moment. Layla Güven was elected MP by millions in the June 24th general elections, but was not released. Five days after he was elected MP on June 29, 2018, he was released, but with an appeal made by the prosecution, he was 10. The High Criminal Court has decided to continue its arrest. In fact, according to the court's counter-vote, the investigation and prosecution of the re-elected MP, according to Article 83/4 of the Constitution, would have to be decided to stop first, due to the parliament's removal of its immunity. In addition, the court has not accepted the verdict made by the Supreme Court as a precedent for CHP MP Enis Berberoglu. So why isn't this happening? Laws, decisions, do they want to be applied to individuals? If it's changing and applied to individuals, then it's a political choice. There used to be a saying -- it's still said -- it's generally called "Don't let Kurd see his mother." With these decisions, you will now become whatever the Kurd is, and he will not be released and he will remain in prison. Now, prior to the political decisions made by the court, the detention of Leyla Güven (Leyla) in prison is also contrary to the immunity of the MP, which was already defined in the second joke of Article 83 of the Constitution, and contrary to the Supreme Court's decisions. Since there is no integration in the judges' decisions on this subject, the courts can make different decisions. This has to be fixed as soon as possible. It has also been said that the Constitutional Amendment proposal, as stated in the opening statement of the Constitutional Amendment proposal, is said that the sentence of the first sentence of Article 80 of Article 80 will not be carried out, that immunity will be restored in terms of the existence of the fourth joke of Article 80 of the Constitution, and that the prosecution of the re-elected MP and the parliamentary immunity of the Assembly will be lifted because there is no amendment to this verdict, and that the immunity of those chosen in the case of a re-election has been lifted. At the moment we're here, as I've just tried to explain with concrete examples and events, the rule of law has been withdrawn. The detention of the Trust continues to be a violation of the Constitution, a violation of the law, a violation of parliamentary immunity, and a false practice. Now I'm going to say that wherever we hold this prisoner, we're going to have it. But in fact, we don't have it, all of you, all of us do. The separation of forces and internalization of judicial independence are a requirement of the legal state. Applications and regulations that violate the independence and neutrality of the judiciary must be investigated. If you claim that this decision is not political, let's investigate it together.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0058par0329	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0057par0330	Let's investigate the interference that defunctions the principle of separation of forces. Finally, Leyla Güven, chosen by the people of Haqkari, has been on hunger strike for forty-nine days. His hunger strike is not about his arrest or his personal wishes, but about the removal of the lockdown he thought was being imposed on the Imralı, which he thought was clouding Turkey's future. Layla Güven has so many grudges in internal law that I don't even see the need to mention the European Court of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0059par0334	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal, Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl... Here you are, Mr. Bingöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0060par0338	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Behind me, there's a saying that we all speak from time to time, the proverb of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk: "Egemanism is the nation of the contrary." For this Parliament, this is a very, very important proverb for the democracy of Turkey. So, let me ask you: if the congressman is being arrested, isn't that a disregard for the will of the nation? If the deputy of the nation is arrested, it means the imprisonment of the conscience of the people, of the freedom of the people to vote, so let us not put this proverb into our tongue. This makes parliamentary arrests worse for us and for our reputation in the international arena. Arresting lawmakers just because of the political activity in Turkey, it doesn't bring anything, believe me. Layla Güven must have been one of the MPs who was elected to this parliament, but what you can do is that the judge who evacuated Layla Güven will be removed immediately, but his motives will not be explained. Dear lawmakers, for a long time there have been very unfair, very wrong practices in this parliament concerning lawmakers. Enis Berberoglu was unjustly imprisoned; our brother Eren Erdem is still a prisoner because he has only been opposed, only because he has fulfilled his right to be an opposition MP. For God's sake, what does all this bring to the Justice and Development Party, other political parties? Believe me, our democracy is getting hurt; believe me, we can't talk about human rights; believe me, when we meet with foreign parliamentarians or representatives of NGOs at many meetings, we are asked first. You're being asked, we're all being asked. Congressman, each of us is going through a series of processes before we come to Parliament. For example, we're getting a criminal record. For example, the YSK is being examined as it is being given lists, and the YSK can ignore the candidate's candidacy when it is needed, but that's not the case for these friends.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0061par0344	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0060par0345	The YSK allows him to run for MP, the public goes to the polls, votes, and the people's will is being granted freedom of the nation, freedom of the people, freedom of the vote, and imprisonment of the people's will. We all need to explore this very deeply, dear friends. Believe me, being a congressman's prisoner, being a prisoner doesn't get you anything. Oh, if there's any other reason, the YSK should consider it, the Supreme Court should consider it. All this will be ignored and a congressman will be arrested, and that detention will last months, and even that MP will use a human vehicle to announce his voice with a hunger strike, but we'll all still be insensitive, and we'll still ignore it? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Perhaps these practices will be applied to others among us tomorrow. Then we'll turn around and look back, and the mistakes we've made, the mistakes we've made, the mistakes we've made, they'll come back to us as Turkey's fault and wrong. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0062par0350	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Adıyaman MP İbrahim Halil Fırat... Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0353	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the advice of the HDP group. I hereby salute your high council, the General Assembly, our beloved nation, with respect, with respect, with love. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are a state of law in the Republic of Turkey. In the state of law, men are completely separate, so the legal, executive, and judicial bodies are completely separate. There is no way that law and administration can interfere with the judiciary. Decisions are decisions made by independent and impartial judgment. Of course, in earlier times, the judiciary has become political. In previous times, did the judiciary become political? He's gone political. Has there been any interference with the administration? Yeah. In Turkey's political history, the Prime Minister Adnan Menderes and two ministers, elected by the votes of our beloved nation, with a decision with a black mark on democracy. They then blocked the national will with 1971 credits and 1980 coups. In the same way, during February 28th, the judiciary became political. In 2007, we see how the judiciary became political with a law geek called 367. In 2008, we see how the judiciary became political in the closing of 50 per cent of our beloved nation to the EC PARTY. In 2010, we passed the referendum, not the law of the superior, but the rule of law, and political parties are no longer closed, and independent, neutral justice is being carried out. But at this time, with all the terrorist organizations that are trying to destroy our country and our nation's indivisible integrity, the lives and property of our beloved nation...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0064par0357	They had the same motive, the same motive for September 12th.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0358	...with the PKK, NYD, YPG, DEAŞ, DHKP-CH.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0064par0359	They were singing like you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0360	Nobody's sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0064par0361	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0362	Nobody's sorry. Whoever is involved in terrorism and is involved in terrorism in the fight against terrorism will answer to our beloved nation in front of an independent and neutral judiciary.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0064par0363	You're chewing on the purity of the universe right now.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0364	The provision of the trial on Layla Güven is stated in the first sentence of Article 83 -- although it is stated in the first sentence of Article 83 of the Article 83 of the Constitution -- and in the second part of Article 83 of the Article 83 of the Constitution, the sentence is fully specified. What does it say here? It says: "In the case of the criminal state which requires severe punishment and that the investigation has been launched before the election, the conditions on Article 14 of the Constitution are outside of this decree. " [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We have to respect the judgment here, of course, the decisions made by the judges.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0065par0367	Do you plead for the arrest of the MP?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0368	Here is the second sentence of Article 83 of the Constitution, which is very clear, and I advise you to look at it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0066par0369	What is the difference between you and the 12th of September?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0063par0370	With these feelings, the HDP says we are against the group's proposal, and I salute you all with respect.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0067par0372	Do you plead for the arrest of the MP?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0066par0373	You're doing the same apps as your predecessors. I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0067par0374	Should the MPs be tried or not?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0068par0375	Dear friends, this conversation is over. Friends, I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0069par0377	Mr. President, I was in the system.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0068par0378	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0069par0381	Thank you, Mr. President. Our congressman, who just spoke, spoke about the separation of forces on the stand, the independence of the judiciary, the rule of law, so I made a promise for him. A person who talks about the rule of law should also know the concept of innocence, that anyone whose judgment is not finalized or not fixed should know that he is innocent in front of the Constitution, in front of the public conscience. Otherwise, you'll be on the stand, blowing, thundering, that's separate. People are finally using appreciation, but I don't think it's appropriate for Parliamentary norms to assess a congressman being held in prison without a final ruling or even a verdict. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0070par0387	Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Wednesday 26/12/2018 (now), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the group. İstanbul MP Yunus Emre and his friends issued a parliamentary research motion on 25/12/2018 to investigate the problems of young people in our country who are neither training nor employing in our country (645 rows). lu) has been proposed to move ahead of other proposals and to hold their talks on Wednesday (26/12/2018). On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Yunus Emre has been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Emre. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0071par0401	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. We have a proposal to conduct a parliamentary survey on a very important, very fundamental issue of Turkey. I have made a promise of this proposal. Dear friends, as you know, this is a new measurement. So we're talking about the problems of young people in a society who don't have education, who don't grow, who don't have jobs. In Turkey, it had been slightly higher in the past, but at about 24 per cent today -- about 24 per cent of the young people in Turkey -- we're talking about how 24 per cent of the young are not employed in education or employment. We don't know where they are. Look, I'm pointing out that we know what these young people aren't doing, but we don't know what they're doing. Our future, our young, rotting away in the coffeehouse corners, homes. I'd like to transfer some basic data. Dear friends, of course, this issue has a dimension of demographics, a dimension of economics, employment policies. We're talking about a very direct problem with education. First of all, I want to remind you that the 24 percent that comes our way is very high, but it's actually a very misleading ratio, a little bit different than that. I want to explain why. As you know, we reach this ratio through a household labour force survey, which is the result of the local labour force survey. However, the data of this survey is based on the nature of non institutional population measurement. What does that mean? So we're talking about populations that aren't in institutions, who aren't in military barracks, who aren't in student dorms, who aren't in prisons. So once we calculate these things, we know that the young people in the military, the young people in the prison, the others in the prison, are actually much higher. At the same time, this measurement is made for 15-24 age intervals. An important part of young people between the ages of 15 and 19 are already in mandatory education, and they are also in open school. So what we really need to focus on is a 20-24-year-old slice. We're looking at a higher level here. We're talking about an environment near 33 percent of the age, where roughly one third of young people are not trained or employed. Dear friends, one of the most fundamental issues is that they now have a longer working period in the world and in Turkey, and people don't retire at 40 years old and 45 years old. I'd like to present a very basic data for the youth community we're talking about to the General Assembly. Dear friends, when we are in this age range of 20 to 24 years of age and we look at the educational situation of young people who are neither in education nor in employment, we see that roughly 77% of them, 77% of these young people, have reached education in high school and below. This shows us that these young people, our young ones, who can't find a job, who can't participate in social life, will stay in the labour market for another 40 years. So now we have a period in which young people who have just joined the labour market can retire at the age of 60, at the age of 65. So, basically, we're dealing with the fact that our young people, who have no hardware, who have not been able to participate in social life, economic life, are going to be in this situation for another 40 years. Look, when I read it, I'd like to share with you a piece of data that brought the sky down on me. The Human Tuna from Coach University is doing this research. According to his research, more than a hundred months pass in these youths -- for half -- to find a permanent job following the end of his training period. I want to get your attention, we're talking about a hundred months. So in roughly a hundred months, half of our young people can't find a permanent job. Now, as Parliament, we cannot close our eyes to such a fundamental problem of Turkey. In the core of such an important issue, I mean -- I've just told you -- Turkey's employment policies are coming, education policies are coming. We can't close our eyes to this problem. I told you in the beginning, we know what these young people don't do. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like a moment.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0072par0411	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0071par0412	We know these young people aren't working, we know that our young people aren't in education, but we don't know what they're doing. It's clear that our young people are open to all kinds of abuse, all kinds of crimes. We can't keep our eyes closed on this, guys. We can't explain this with a party debate, party fans, party discipline. This is not our job, let the bureaucrats of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services take care of it. This is a very basic responsibility of the House. So I expect support from all of our political parties, from all of our groups. I'm paying my respects again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0072par0415	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Mush MP Şevin Coşkun. Here you go, Mr. Coshkun. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0073par0419	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in favor of the Republican People's Party Group's group proposal for young unemployment. I salute you all. Turkey's unemployment problem is an important part of economic and social development. Unemployment and young unemployment, especially young unemployment, are a major problem, given the high and functional share of the young population in Turkey. Youths in the 15-24-year-old group form 16.3 per cent of the population of Turkey. Turkey is seen to be the country with the highest number of young populations in Europe. One of the most important problems of young people in the country is unemployment. Thousands of young people each year complete their education and attend the class of unemployed people with diplomas. The youth unemployment rate in Turkey is at a high level of 19.6 per cent, according to TİK data. This rate is up to 33 percent in young women. The unemployment rate of a university graduate is much higher with 29 per cent. The unemployment rate of women with a university degree reveals a very negative picture with 34 per cent. Every day, the rate of unemployed people with diplomas increases. This especially disturbs the youth that reads. While unemployment is so common in young people, more than 2 million young people work unsecuredly in the informal sector. 982,000 young people looking for jobs with diplomas in their hands. According to TÜİK data, the unemployment rate for young people in Turkey is increasing as the level of education increases. According to the report of the Parliamentary Research Services Presidency, the University of Turkey's Alumni of the Population's Workforce State, one of the four unemployed has graduated from the university. According to the report, the highest unemployment rates among university graduates are 29.1%, journalism and information, computers with 16.6 per cent, art with 16.3 per cent. Today, according to educational unions, there are nearly 400,000 non-assigned teachers. Dear lawmakers, most of the young people who work are employed under difficult conditions, as a cheap labor force for long periods of work, and more as subcontractors. In the same way, flexible work is also imposed on young people. Flexible work is another name for working in favor of the employer, for short-term jobs, for long hours. Thousands of young people continue to depend on their families for support, as they are unable to achieve economic prosperity by being put into business after their education. As a result of this situation, both unemployed and underprivileged young people have to walk away from social life. At the highest level of production and creativity, the period distances individuals from social areas, both because of limited time and failure to achieve economic prosperity. It has to be known that the cause of unemployment and poverty... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0074par0428	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0073par0430	It is impossible to end unemployment and poverty unless the AKP gives up economic policies based on profit and Ranta, which fund power security policies. That's why these policies need to be abandoned as soon as possible. We support the motion. This matter must be investigated by the Clave. Finally, on the 7th anniversary of the December 28th Roboski massacre, I honor the 34 lives we've lost here. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0075par0436	Thank you. Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0076par0440	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed MPs on the CHP group proposal. I salute you all. I, too, celebrate the 99th anniversary of the arrival of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our republic, which launched the national liberation movement in Anatolia. Dear lawmakers, the rational and consistent way to raise young people with diplomas from both university and higher education is also based on quality as much as number. One of the most important problems in education and teaching today is that our young people finish school without sufficient savings and equipment. This lack causes our young ones to face difficulties and become unemployed as they enter into business. In our universities, the teaching staff is the head of the factors that enable students to grow up to be competent professionals. The presence of qualified academics is essential for our children to grow up well. Students who do not have sufficient or required training staff are unable to obtain information that will prepare them for the future. In this framework, no university from Turkey has been able to qualify for the top 100 universities the World University Sorting Centre has prepared for 2018-2019. Young people who have graduated from universities, facing a thousand challenges, are struggling to find work, to face employment problems. Unplanned college graduates are on the loose. Currently, hundreds of thousands of universities and university graduates wait at the gates of state institutions and private companies to find jobs. Our young people are not responsible for this painting. According to the OECD report, Norway is the first country to invest most in the country's informal domestic product, in total, medium, medium education institutions. Turkey is at the latest with 3% in the country's rankings. Dear lawmakers, the number of university unemployed in Turkey is increasing day by day. According to data released by TÜİK in January 2018, the unemployment rate in higher education is 12.8 per cent. Some of these young minds have to deal with what they find when they can't work in the field where they've been trained for years. Some hang their diplomas on the wall and work as couriers, some shepherding, some private security guards. I hereby support the Republican People's Party's proposal, and salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0077par0449	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group on the proposal, Here you are, Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0078par0453	Mr. President, I have made a promise against the Republican People's Party group proposal. I salute you, my dear fellow MPs, our Lord Bursa, and our beloved nation. First of all, I'd like to thank the lawmakers who have prepared the proposal. Their sensitivity to the matter is a joy to my country and to our great Assembly. The reason for the proposal to set up a commission has also been carefully prepared, from an academic perspective. You have shared with us the emergence of the concept of young people who are neither in education nor in work, and the development process, the summary of the literature on the field. I really appreciate you, but I wish you had expanded the scope of your literature research, but if you had been aware of many of the reasons that you have provided for the establishment of commissions, the work of various social policies during the time of the AK PARTI administration; if you had been aware of the fact that most of the work that you've done in the Department of Youth and Sports, which has demonstrated the importance of the matter from the Fifth Annual Development Plan, if you'd already understood why we've been working with people in the field, and why you've been able to understand why Turkey's Ministry of Sports, and why we've been able to meet the need for qualified labor and employment policies. Your proposal is one of the most important policies our government has, and most importantly, education. Our actions, of course, will not end in counting, but in short, I'd like to tell you. We've provided our young with equal, fair and quality education. By establishing a university in each of our provinces, we have raised our number of higher education institutions to 207. We've put an end to your coefficient injustice. We made sure that about 800,000 of our students, who were cut off from the universities, continued their education through a general amnesty arrangement. We've removed college tuition. When we came to power, 450,000 young people were given loans and loans to 1,633,000 of our students, with a scholarship of 433,279, and a loan of 1,200,457. We have continued to support our young people in business as well as in the field of education, and we will continue to continue. It's the first time we've had incentives for young employment. We've had 10 million jobs for 16 years. For three years, we have brought the exception of 75,000 euros in income to young people who are starting a new business. It's the first time we've granted tax exemption to young entrepreneurs' capital companies.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0079par0458	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0078par0459	Approximately 2.3 million people attended ISKUR vocational training courses from 2002-2018. We have provided 65 per cent of the students and 75 per cent of those attending to the workforce training. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, may I remind you again that the basis of our great House's operation is legislation. Of course, it is good to express your suggestions so that the ministry is more effective and more efficient in matters related to the tasks and responsibilities of the ministries. But without knowing the work already being done, your proposal is not reasonable to set up a commission based on the reflection of a methodological research report that could be discussed by taking data from 2015-2016 to the center. I'm saying, of course, it's happy for the CHP to be aware in the last days of the year 2018, of the problems the EC PARTY predicted 16 years ago. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0080par0463	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0081par0464	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0080par0465	A few moments ago, our congressman, who spoke ahead of him, made a twist and taunt, saying that the data used in our group member's speech was rotten data. We demand two minutes of your word for Mr. Yunus Emre, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0082par0466	That's not what he said.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0080par0467	He said he was using the 2014-2016 data directly. That would cause a lot of misunderstandings in the public that listens to us.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0082par0468	It's not a word that's been used.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0083par0469	Shall we turn the mike on?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0080par0470	No, we demand to be bullied.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0083par0471	On the stand?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0080par0472	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0083par0473	Yes, Mr. Emre.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0084par0474	He didn't say that. Look at the transcripts, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0085par0475	There is no such thing as an old man.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0086par0476	He doesn't say the Cove, he says the 2014-2016, he's talking to the 2018 data here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0085par0477	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0087par0478	Let's see, wait a minute, we've got time. We're here today until morning.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0086par0479	Mr. President, I mean, it's obvious.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0088par0480	He even praised him very much, Mr. Engin.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0087par0481	Mr. Emre, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0089par0484	Mr. President, thank you, sir. Dear friends, I've tried to point out in my speech, and now, let's not really, look, consider the matter here as a vicious argument. We're talking about Turkey's most serious issue. So one third of the young people in Turkey... it's been stable, and we've been in this situation for a long time. How will Turkey get out of this? The matter is a matter of managing, let us leave it to them. If we say so, we will not do our duty as Parliament. Let the witness' testimony be busy with the legislature. It's true but incomplete. All over the world, parliaments don't only work with a limited content of legislation; parliament has a control function; they have a research function; they are already written in the Constitutional regulations because they exist. In short, the point I'm trying to make is, I want to draw your attention to this: there is a very comprehensive, very important problem in Turkey's transition from education to work. I've just said, half of our young people are about a hundred months away -- look, I'm talking about half -- can't find a permanent job. Now, with this view in the middle, please, I beg you, let's not make this Turkey's issue a vicious policy debate. Besides, we're not the only ones on the research commission, so why do you hesitate? You'll be found most of the time anyway. We handle this matter well on the research commission, we listen to experts, we listen to relevant bureaucrats, we question whether they've done their duty properly or not. We have this responsibility, we cannot do our duty by closing our eyes on that responsibility; we will have done our duty wrong and incomplete. I wanted to make that clear. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0090par0490	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0091par0491	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0090par0494	Mr. President, in order to make a statement, our MP -- in front of me, the speech text -- what was the data from when the AK PARTY came to power in 2002, what was in the year 2018, which was very clear about where this was coming from, where it was coming from, and the great services being done. Otherwise, there's no bullying. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0091par0496	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0092par0497	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0091par0498	Mr. Altay, are you picking on me again?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0092par0499	Now, I mean, I have to make a promise to get it on the record. I'm a tease, too, not a polemic. I listened carefully to the preacher, and he said our preacher used the old data. And since this is going to be a negative on the prestige of our speaker for our citizens watching the House, I've asked him to make a promise to correct it. What's wrong with that?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0091par0500	Thank you. Friends, I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Now, the Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Wednesday 26/12/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Deputy President After 48 hours of the Law Proposal 38, which was distributed under pressure, the agenda was to be taken into the first order of operations from the Commission and to determine the order of other tasks according to this. On Wednesday, December 26, 2018, until the meeting of Law Proposal 38 on Wednesday (today) has been completed, until the meeting of Thursday (December 27, 2018), if it cannot be completed, is completed. The completion of this proposal on Wednesday (December 26, 2018) was held on Thursday (December 27, 2018), December 28, 2018, Friday and Saturday (December 29, 2018), or Saturday (December 27, 2018), on Friday (December 2018), December 28, 2018, and Saturday (December 29, 2018). The Law Proposal 38 is to be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have the chapters in the accompanying form, It's recommended. There's only one speaker on the proposal. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Engin Altay will speak. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0524	Thank you. You open the polemics, and you say, "Hurry up, let's go to the law." You say, "Don't cry for it." First of all, let me say again, I don't think any of the MPs here want anyone to be unemployed, to be uneducated, but there are numbers, there are numbers, there are numbers of the state. Like what? We have 1,700,000 children in the age population who don't go to elementary school or middle school or high school. That's not what I'm saying, it's the Ministry of TİK and National Education, and our congressman points to it. Like what? We're world champions at a young unemployment rate. The Republican People's Party doesn't say that, but the inventory, statistics from the institutions that you run. In this regard, of course, you say we've been through the mountain. But the minimum wage is 424 dollars, and now, when we're trading dollars for $1.600, you're saying it's up to $2.020 from $1.6600. But last year, when we make a minimum wage of $1.603, he's going to get a minimum wage of $424, and now he's going to get a minimum wage of $380 with a new minimum wage. You stole $42.5 from the pocket of the minimum wager -- and by you, I mean the palace -- you stole it, you blew it, you did what you did. Shouldn't we say that in the House? That's what we're here to tell you. Let's hope the dollar drops. Now, with the AK PARTI group proposal, you've finished a law, or we'll plant you here until market. With the threat - it's not us, it's you, it's the AK PARTY MPs, but according to him - it's either over or it's over. The attitude of the Republican People's Party is this: Every law proposal for the interests of the nation, the state, the country, we already say yes, we say yes, we offer our constructive contributions, we vote and we accept. But your party, this group of vice presidents, these executives, has a disease, which is that they add sugar and salt to the tea. Therefore, tea is no longer tea. I say to my colleagues, "My brother, bring me something. Look, now that they've made 12 articles, there's some great stuff, and we've got things to say, yes, we've got things to accept.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0094par0529	Complete, please, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0530	But with that, there are things that aren't right that shouldn't be. And you say the new system, the new system, come, if you have any respect for this system, let's make an internal amendment to the Parliament. You know what we should do? No soup, no bags, no law offers. If a member of parliament has brought up a number of lawmakers -- whatever -- in that case -- let him take down the collective law proposal, we promise, so we don't show the defense that we show in bags like this. Now, why are you adding sugar and salt, brother? There's the Police Department's Ark, there's the agricultural rooms, there's the traffic tickets, there's the Bosporus development, there's the bridge ticket, there's the Capital Market Board, there's the YSK members' time. Do we need to extend the duration of the members of the NGO?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0095par0532	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0533	No, let me finish. Doesn't the member of the YSK continue his mission until the next one is elected? It does. What's the matter with you? Now, I think you're clouding these men, these people's independence and neutrality. You know why?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0096par0536	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0097par0537	You extended Hikmet Sami during the Turkish era.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0538	Don't go digging up old books like a mufli merchant! If you're gonna say something new, just say it!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0097par0539	No, the old books happened during your time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0098par0540	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0541	So...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0097par0542	It's what the government does.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0543	Mr. President, he's harassing me. If he's a bully, he's harassing me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0097par0544	It's over.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0545	It's over, come and get me!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0099par0546	Are you almost done? Do you need time?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0093par0547	Come down! I'll talk. What are you gonna do? Yes, I will.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0100par0548	You're out of time already!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0099par0549	Guys, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0101par0550	Engin President, that was in the past.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0551	Now, the Supreme Election Board, I hope they're watching us. I'm from the High Election Board...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0099par0552	Should I turn on the mike?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0553	I'd be delighted, Mr. President, if you'd be so kind.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0099par0554	If it's over... Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0556	I'm here to talk after this.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0099par0557	Okay, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0558	So if you take down the metazorine, amenna, or I'll talk.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0103par0559	Don't mention it!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0560	I'd call you if I were the president of the High Election Board and a member of its mandate, and I have a reputation, and I'm being independent and neutral on the basis of my oath here, brother. What makes you think it's a year? Did I ask you to do such a thing? They should say so. I have information about them not demanding it. It's a shame about the men. Now, on the way to the election, the citizen extends the term of the YSK members for a year... you know, I'm so sorry, my word is out of the council, we have a saying: "Don't take a watermelon peel to the donkey's head, don't drop it." That's exactly what you're doing now. I'm just saying, if there's no doubt, doubt, doubt, deceit, intrigue, you can put it in people's minds. Otherwise, when the deadline expires, the Court and the Supreme Court will meet. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing, Mr. President. You don't have to open it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0104par0564	No need to read intent, no need to read intent.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0565	I won't force your patience and tolerance.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0105par0566	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0102par0567	I'm aware in the Supreme Court and the Court that these elections have lasted six months, it may be extended, it's a democratic situation. It's a mechanism; they choose in three days, they choose in six. So, is there a mechanism to remove the current friends until the new one is chosen? No. What's happening to us? What's the point? When you guys do this, I say, you know, the AK PARTY actually did it, and I think he's got a hin in his head again. It's nothing to think about, but that's what people think. You're playing with the credibility of your party as well as members of the YSK, period. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0105par0570	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0571	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0105par0572	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0575	Mr. President, I'd like to give Mr. Altay an answer, if I may. Now, there's only one thing in life that I'm ambitious about, I'm not assertive about anything, the tea thing, I mean, the tea thing is important to me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0107par0577	Of course, your tea is strong because you collect it with high judgment.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0578	One second, please, at least let me talk to him. Perfect tea is not salty, it's sweet, it's empty, so if you drink plain tea, it means something. So I expect better examples from you, Mr. Altay, which is far from the situation, and we have many friends in our group who know the taste of tea, make good tea, drink good tea. I think you can tell me the subject with better examples. [ Applause ] We'll go from here to here...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0108par0581	There'll be more applause.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0582	It's not a matter of applause, it's a matter of understanding. Now, what I want to say here is that comparing the past to the present is meaningful, to see what a team does as a whole. So from 2002 to today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0109par0586	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0587	I mean, I'm not angry, but if it's possible...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0109par0588	We promise either 60, or 69. One minute according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0590	Then I'll just come over there.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0109par0591	Well, if there's bullying, that's fine.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0106par0592	Yes, there are many, Mr. President. I'll put him through right away. $113 minimum wage in 2002, $380 today. We know that Turkey is going through a very difficult economic crisis, and if you look at it like this, it's important to emphasize that this point is a remarkable thing to increase 26 per cent, but is it not enough, of course, our effort is for more. We'll tell you about the Supreme Election Board: it's mandatory to choose in January, elections in January, local elections in March. There's a very short period of time in that time, and there's preparations going on. So from a continuity point of view, we're bringing this arrangement, and I'd like to rephrase that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit01spe0110par0596	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0110par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. The following proposals were deemed appropriate for the General Assembly's votes at the Council of Counsellors' meeting today. Özlem Rich Engin Altay Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Ayhan Bilgen Mohammed Levent Nightingale Peoples' Democratic Party's National Party Party Party Deputy Chairman of the Group The General Assembly was advised not to meet on Wednesdays 2 January and 3 January 2019 and Thursdays. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Chair Mehmet Mush and 25 MPs on the Road Traffic Law and Plan and Budget Commission Report, which are ranked in the 1st place. Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 38 rows. Members of parliament, this proposal will be considered as the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. İstanbul MP Yavuz Aşelioğlu on behalf of the People's Party Group (İİ PARTI) who wants to speak on behalf of the group on behalf of the entire proposal; İstanbul MP Mustafa Kalajcı on behalf of the National Movement Party Group; İstanbul MP Erol Kadarcıoğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group; İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekoğlu on behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group. Now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I pledge to the MP Mustafa Kalaycı. Here you go, Mr. Kalay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0111par0034	Mr. President, I have been promised by the National Party of Action to express our views on the general proposal of the law. On this occasion, I salute you all. The proposal of the law includes regulations to address and meet some of the needs of our citizens on certain issues. The proposal makes changes in various articles of nine laws, which are not connected as far as the matter is concerned. Before we go into detail of the arrangements, I'd like to point out one thing. Recently, long-term debates are being held during both the commission and the General Assembly talks of law proposals. Why such issues as proposals have been made, why there are no impact analysis, how ministries are turned into proposals, why ministers come or don't come, why bidders and representatives of the administration sit-ins are on the agenda. It is natural, of course, to speak and to discuss such matters, and also to improve the quality of legislation. Since then, talks about the failure of the legislative process to reach the desired quality, the failure of commissions to work effectively, the lack of planning and programming of work have always been voiced, and there have been negotiating commissions in 2009 and 2013 to draft a new Civil Charter. The issues discussed and criticised are therefore relevant to the working procedure of the Assembly and have nothing to do with system change, with the President's government system. The fact that there's no bag editing, there's no impact analysis is what we've always been critical of since before. In addition, the amendment to Law 5018 this year as part of the integration arrangements for the new system has been ordered to include the financial burden of law proposals for at least three years and proposals. An arrangement must also be made in the House of Parliament. In order for MPs to provide a healthy analysis of law proposals, the administrative capacity of parliament must be improved accordingly. Again, there is a need to redefine the procedures and fundamentals related to the giving and meeting of law proposals. In addition, it is important that the regulations needed by the administration be transformed into parliament and into proposals. If such arrangements are made, the debate will be resolved in a sense. With that respect, it is clear that the Parliamentary Council must be dealt with with with with a new understanding, and that parliamentary studies require both institutional and functional innovation. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we consider the need to prepare a new Interior Charter, which will allow for the discovery of a more democratic, fast, efficient, transparent, participating, and quality legislation, and we express our readiness to contribute and support in this direction. Dear lawmakers, the first amendment of the proposal of the law states that officers who will be new to office in the Security Directorate staffs must be permanent partners in the Police Care and Help Chest during their duties. To provide social and economic assistance to members of the Security Directorate, it is important that the trunk be restored to a stronger financial structure, increase the assistance it gives to its partners, but first, the police need to work to convince them of it, and have their trust in the polls on the rights and opportunities to be a member. Besides, Turkish police need to improve their rights and working conditions. When we retire, our police have to work to the fullest age, because their salary is half the size, and when they retire, they're struggling to find a living, to get a new job, to make a living. In this respect, additional indicators and compensations of the personnel working in the safety services class must be improved, and the additional police indicator must be raised to 3600. The hours of overtime must be rearranged with the hours of police employees' work and leave, and overtime must be paid for work on 40 hours a week. Article 2 of the law proposal is to reduce farmers who belong in agricultural rooms to 11% of the gross minimum wage, the entry fee of 2 per cent of the gross minimum wage, and the lower limit of annual dues, to 1 per cent of the gross minimum wage. It's a positive arrangement, but we also need to make arrangements for our farmers, our feeders, and our milk producers who are having a hard time getting them out of trouble. The policy and measures to save our farmer from debt and interest helix should be put into practice, which will bring ease to his debt to banks and agriculture. In addition, support must be increased and paid on time. In this regard, it's a good thing last week's milk premiums were raised by 15 cents. The farmer's basic entries should not be taxed, they should be allowed to buy their inputs cheaply. For electricity used by our farmer, a lower rate must be determined. In Article 3 of the Law proposal, the provision of traffic sentences is not increased by a resumption rate in 2019. Law 7148, which came into effect two months ago, has been made in order to increase traffic safety on land roads, new sanctions have been imposed, and some administrative fines have been significantly increased. The Road Road Traffic Law stipulates that the fines will be increased by the rate of detection and augmentation declared from the start of each calendar year. Reconstruction rate has been declared 23.73 per cent. Given that traffic tickets only increased significantly two months ago, there is no need for another update for next year, and the arrangement is seen as appropriate. As part of zoning peace in Article 4 of the law proposal, it is organised to ensure that its immovable assets, especially in areas in which the coordinates are set in Beykoz and Üskudar districts, will also benefit from the building registration document. Thus, our citizen's demands and expectations are being met. However, the deadline for the application must be brief and extended. On the other hand, those of our citizens who benefit from zoning peace are having difficulty finding loans so that they can pay, and they are dealing with high interest rates. There is a strong demand for citizens not to be sentenced to banks, given the opportunity to instalment in the settlement peace payments. It has been stated that a study has been carried out as the National Movement Party on our proposal for such an application in the Commission talks. In Article 5 of the Law proposal, the release of administrative fines and extradition of previous collections in the application form are held on November 2, 2016, although the Bridge of Martyrs and Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge are prohibited from crossing the Bridge on July 15, 2016. As of the car classrooms, it has been stated that the ban brought against certain vehicles was not announced enough as the main reason for the crossing violations. The appropriate measures must be taken and arranged in accordance with justice. On the other hand, there is a strong demand for the removal of all penalties for crossing bridges. As the National Movement Party, we are particularly concerned that punishments against trucks and buses that are carrying passengers and freight will be removed once in a while. Precious lawmakers are envisioned to continue the implementation period of the law proposal on the 6th amendment, on property tax and the exception of municipal tax, tuition and participation in villages whose legal personality is removed by Law No 6360, and on 31/12/2022, the minimum rate for drinking and using water in these places will not exceed 25 per cent. It is also extended to 31/12/2022, when exemptions and exceptions are issued in the Law on Taxes for employees in villages. However, a reduction period for the minimum rate for drinking and using water is also extended to 31/12/2022 in areas where the corporate personality has been removed and turned into a single neighborhood. The exceptions, originally brought as five years, have been extended to six years last year, and are now extended to ten years, so it is extended to 31/12/2022. We consider and support a positive arrangement as the National Movement Party, but we think it is impossible to remove these extended exceptions in 2022. For it is not possible for our people, who live in our old villages and cities, to meet the future financial burden, and to be incompatible with justice. Sadly, our sincere warnings regarding Law 6360, issued in 2012 as the National Movement Party, were not heard that day. It was said: "Beldes and villages deserve to be cities; they will serve in the standard of the city. Whatever's in the city will be in the villages. Good roads, sewers, sidewalks, no problems, water supplies of closed municipalities will remain here, staff will be evaluated, infrastructure problems will be finished in the cities, no water and sewer problems will be left. Of course, good words are only positive developments, but in many places the road, water and sewer problems remain. The staff of the municipality and its equipment are also blowing in place. Furthermore, there has been a tremendous increase in urbanization along with Law 6360. See, the urbanization of Konya is up to 100 per cent in one night. There is no point in deceiving ourselves; the village is a village, and the villages, and the obas, and the mehras are a very important part of our culture. Basically, our villages and towns are ejaculated, our people are migrating to cities. We need to think about it, implement policies for the development of these areas. The amendment to Law 6360 must be reviewed, considering recent developments and problems. Although it is larger than many counties, the municipality is shut down and we have a town called the'mahalle'. Restoration of municipalities and villages in the region must be considered. In Article 7 of the Law proposal, the Constitution of the Capital Market Law states that the nature of cooperative troops within the law shall be established in the development of public partnership status, including cooperative central units. In addition, the definition of the control of the units and the central units over these partnerships of co-ops, the majority of the shares were left out of the scope, based on control of the administration, under $50 million per year. The 8th article of the law proposal is also changed to the article on the rent certificate of the Capital Market Law. According to this, accession banks are made possible to export accession banks, considering it is virtually impossible for them to export the capital and capital certificate. The purpose is to develop the application for rent certificates. The 9th article of the law proposal provides an arrangement for the election times of members of the Supreme Election Board. According to the Commission talks, six members of the Supreme Election Board will expire in January 2019; they must be renovated in January. Since the start date of the elections on 31 March 2019 was January 1, 2019, the election calendar indicated that more than half of the members would change after the start of the election calendar, which could be a problem for the management of elections highlighted in Article 79 of the Constitution. The arrangement, on this basis, envisions the selection of members in 2019 in 2020, and the selection of members in 2022 in 2023. We look positively at this arrangement with similar practices in the past. Under Article 10 of the Law's proposal, a new opportunity is being given to debtors who have constructed their debt due to tax and insurance premiums under Law 7143 but who have lost the right to benefit from the law. According to Law 7143, the first two installments must be paid in full and during the duration of the configuration. According to information received by the Commission, the construction of 2 million 459,214 taxpayers who failed to pay their payments from the 5 million,950,000 taxpayers whose tax debt was set up for 70 billion euros has been corrupted. Again, the configuration of 562 thousand borrowers who are unable to pay their installments from 1,270,402 debtors, which is also being built up to 43.4 billion dollars in RSK bonus debt, has been corrupted. Due to the failure to pay the configuration installments, it is possible for those who violate the laws to continue to take advantage of the laws, provided they pay by the end of February 2019, with a late payment increase due to violations. The regulation is positive, however, as well as Law 7143, the implementation of configurations under Law 6736 and 7020 continues. In fact, considering recent economic difficulties, the collection of all configurations under one roof and long-term installments and payment ease will bring a radical solution. Otherwise, it is not possible for our human to be able to pay both the unpaid installments and the current monthly payments. It must be considered that the need for a new law on this matter can also be made. Dear lawmakers, we find and support the news our President gives to our citizens and to the business world about the reduction of electricity and gas prices, the 12 months of minimum wage support in 2019 and support of employment. I'm already saying that we will support the addition of those who require legal arrangement to this proposal. As I end my speech, I say that we, the National Movement Party, will vote on this bill, which includes the demands and expectations of millions of our citizens.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0112par0053	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu on behalf of the Good PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0057	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting you. Although the proposed law is related to the Traffic Law, we are still facing a bag of laws. Looks like a lot of stuff was stuffed in the bag. It's called the Road Traffic Law and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. What's good farming rooms in it? I do. There are, of course, the right parties here because the law enforcement force has been forced to join the polls. Most importantly, there is the matter of our people who are facing heavy traffic tickets for the matter of crossing this bridge. It's the right thing to do, of course. Dear lawmakers, in fact, we've had a very busy budget meeting in the Turkish Grand National Assembly over the past two weeks. In fact, there have been some very good talks in this parliament on the Central Centre of 19 Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Act. Apart from some taunts and debates, everyone has seen that opposition talks express very important facts; in contrast, government officials and Justice and Development Party spokesman insist on drawing pink paintings. We certainly wish that the work and the proper words of this House be taken seriously and taken advantage of. It is also important that the talks are recorded in the transcripts. If these reports are examined calmly, it will appear that they have made some really important assessments, some solutions. Taking into consideration the ideas that are good and true and that these ideas are involved in the practices will have good results for our nation and will boost the reputation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. One of the main rights and duties of the House is budgeting. The budget is for people. Where and how to use people's money, the MPs of the nation must decide, but that's not the truth. The ideas, proposals, of the representatives of the nation, were not effective either in the Commission or in the General Assembly. The government that runs our country is underestimating budget talks, making it look like a simple event, like a revenue drain, basically means the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is being underestimated, too. The budget is a political document that shows which parts of the burden are being burdened with, who are being divided into the blessing. In the general council meetings where such a political document is discussed, it is generally incompatible for the ruling authorities to respond to the questions of the MPs instead of responsible ministers. If one of the duties of power is to provide work and food for the entire nation, shouldn't this be shown in full the budget? But unfortunately, we didn't see them. The budget talks, which became a political tradition in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should be held at the highest level of participation, but this time the tradition is broken. This will be seen as a disrespect to the Turkish nation. By saying new Turkey, turning the party presidency system into a one-man regime -- as we've been saying since the beginning -- and trying to disable the Turkish Grand National Assembly will be of no use to anyone. We already have serious doubts and concerns as to where the Constitution is being changed step by step. The words of some officials of the Justice and Development Party from time to time will never be forgotten. This amendment is the first step, and then it will change further. It has been said, it has been observed. It is not possible to accept the unchangeable substances of the Constitution. It has been said, it has been adopted. Who said that? It's all in the record, and I'll remind you, though, that Bursa MP Ismail Aydın of the Justice and Development Party established these sentences at 14/1/2017. In essence, these views have not been rejected by party officials until now, despite the direct challenge to the founding philosophy of the Republic of Turkey. For now, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been given the impression that it is intended to be used as a tool to change the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, dear friends, every motion and law proposal that we offer in matters of urgent need, when rejected without review, without benefit, everything that is directed towards elections -- as I just said at the beginning of my promise -- is brought into the bag of laws. Sometimes it's just a habit to give a raise and then get those raises. In fact, it won't be enough to hide the raises. In all the developed countries, whether it's the parliamentary system, whether it's the presidential system or the presidential system, whether it's the kingdom, these countries -- I'm talking about these developed countries -- there are powerful parliaments in all of them. In these countries, it is a separate and powerful force, such as law, execution, and judgment. At the same time, all key decisions of the administration cannot be carried out without parliamentary approval, including appointments. Even arms sales in the United States can't be implemented without a Congress order, and one of the victims is our country. There are kings or queens in England, Spain, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, Sweden and Japan, but kings, queens and emperors here are nothing more than symbolic. In all these countries, parliaments are very powerful. France is half president, and parliament is very strong there. The United States is the president, and that's where -- as I just said -- there's a double assembly, and Congress rules everything. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is much more important than any other country's parliament, because it has a very honorable history; it is a Parliament that successfully ruled the War of Salvation and founded the republic. In fact, all of us, all of us, all of the politicians, all of the Turkish nation, should be very concerned, and especially in order to protect their dignity and reputation, this should be the first duty of all lawmakers under this roof. To do that, we have to work with our minds, our conscience, and our free will. We shouldn't shut up so someone likes it. We shouldn't hesitate to tell the truth so that it doesn't contradict anyone. We have to stick to our vows, know the founding will, respect that will, and try to solve all problems by talking. We have to try to understand each other. If we can show at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey that we are trying to understand each other, our nation will try to understand each other. Dear MPs, dear friends, many of our friends are reading poetry on this bench. So I found a poem this time, and I want to share it with you, and this poem belongs to Can Yücel, and he says, "Can Yücel: What Africa is, No China, No India, What travellers, Nor are the stars shining in the night, They don't understand each other. Dear friends, let's shorten this distance, let's take this distance away, let's try to really, really understand each other. Sometimes when I'm watching from there, the speaker talks here, and it's among my friends, but usually and especially on this side, there's time for talks and phone calls at the Justice and Development Party. We don't even listen to each other, e, we don't even look at the transcripts. So, how do we understand each other, whether we're telling the truth, whether it's in the interest of the Turkish nation? Most of the speakers in the High Assembly begin with greetings and greetings of the Grand Assembly. Each of us then has to show respect to this great Assembly, and every member of parliament who has served under this roof has come to win the elections, representing the Turkish nation here, so each of them is respectable, and we must respect what he says. If we want to live forever free and happy in this geography, we need to solve our problems quickly, here, in this Parliament, so the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should have a solution. The palace may behave differently, our party headquarters may behave differently, but if we can discuss the right ideas, the right ideas, the good ideas, the interests of our country and the Turkish nation that we're going to get from there, if we can discuss them here, if we can find each other's shortcomings, if we can file more, if we try to find the truth, we'll have found everything in the interest of the Turkish nation, but while we're looking for the cure here, we'll have to show this will. We must embrace the entire Turkish nation of 81 million. Now the tension is really tiring for our people. And you're witnessing, my fellow lawmakers we met -- don't we talk from time to time -- in those conversations, in those conversations -- I'm telling all of your friends -- don't we say that this tension is tiring our nation? Our nation is really tired, and there is an urgent need for peace now. It falls to all politicians, especially those who rule the country. If politicians are careful to use the words they use to take a step back from stressing statements, everyone will calm down. But we have to tell the truth about one thing, the task of showing that will must begin from the very top. If the head of a household can't speak calmly at home, if he's always acting in a fightlike manner, the children in that house are either willing or unwillingly speaking in the same way. When we look at it from this point of view, the person who is in charge of the peace of mind is at the top of the line, just as it is a mandatory duty to the head of the house. Personally, as a person, when I really turn on the TV, no matter what time it is, I usually listen to the news at eight o'clock in the morning, and 12 o'clock at night, if it's possible, in our room, in our party. But, brother, every moment but every moment, Mr. President is on TV, but he doesn't talk soft, he talks hard, he talks tense, he talks always, he talks incriminating, he talks on holiday, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it, he talks about it. This nation can't carry this tension for long, people need peace. Don't each of you? I do. I mean, I'm sorry, but I have to say, after morning prayer, I'm trying to give myself ten minutes, fifteen minutes. I'm trying to rest in that ten or fifteen minutes. I think a person needs that kind of rest. Everybody does. Don't you all have precious friends? So, if there's a task for us to take this tension down together -- which is a lot more on you, and I'm addressing my friends from the Justice and Development Party -- we have the obligation to bring this calm to the peace of the Turkish nation, let's all work together. It's a question of style, so let's adjust our language accordingly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0114par0083	Then why do you say "saray" in your speech? Our President is particularly...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0084	But isn't that the place? What do I call it?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0114par0085	It's not.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0086	No, what do you want me to use instead?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0115par0087	We call him Ashy, you call him Ashy.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0088	Sir, there's Ashliye, we know all the ashtrays in Istanbul, but it's called'saray.' Why Ashliya?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0115par0089	Where does it take place?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0090	So, we also call Ashliya, we have friends who call Ashliya; our group deputy -- not right now, but -- it's always called "Culliya," so it's called. Why does it bother us to say 'Saray'?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0115par0091	It's not a palace.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0116par0092	Why do you find it uncomfortable to call it "Culliya"?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0113par0093	Yes, we'll call it "Culliah" as long as we keep this quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0117par0094	Is it called "saray" to those who are humble?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0118par0095	A thousand-bedroom shack, hut.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0119par0096	Guys, please, don't stop talking to the vet.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0120par0097	Sir, look, I didn't actually say "royal palace." It still doesn't have a license. Look, it's an illegal structure, but I'm not saying that's not why I'm saying it, so it doesn't happen. Dear friends, dear lawmakers; for me, the main thing is the Turkish nation, and in this geography the Turkish nation has a right to live in peace; it is our duty to give peace to the nation. The main thing is to make the Turkish nation happy, to make the Turkish state strong, and that's why we're here. I'd like to make you an offer: a week from now, it's New Year's Eve. Come on, everybody, with that understanding, let's go into the year 2019 and make 2019 better for the Turkish nation; that's what we all do. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0121par0102	Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Mulecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, my respects to all of you. I'm also -- I'm having trouble reading your name -- I've taken a pledge from my group on the Road Traffic Law and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I'll share our views on this matter with you. But, friends, I'd like to say a few words over the speech line of my predecessor. Because this bag of laws thing has really got us fed up, so if we can't get a solution to this bag of laws, I really don't think we can make the law-making process healthy here. Look, I'm going to tell you a few dates about this latest bill. Now, this came to us on Friday, it was 8:30, the delivery happened on Friday, and it took place on Monday, December 24th, at 15 p.m. They called a meeting of the Commission at 00. Friends, there's a 60-hour recess here, and we're expected to consider this bill without eating, drinking, sleeping, or sleeping in this sixty-six-hour period. I mean, it's a joke. Now, you can say, "Ya, it's already 48 hours past the Civil Code." But, friends, there's also a freak here. Look, I'm going to read the Civil Charter 26/, and it says: "The call for a commission meeting is at least two days ago, unless there's a necessity." (It doesn't say whether it's Saturday or Sunday, but Saturday, Sunday -- as you all know -- most of the MPs are going to their provinces. So it's clear that there's a problem with this regulation clause. Besides, I don't think two days is enough time to discuss such a bill, friends, put your hand on your conscience. Look, the Bosporus is a substance that makes it necessary to keep a very close eye on an item that's been mentioned about the zoning, because it's going to create an incredible rant there, in the Bosporus's backs, and as I said, you asked us to evaluate it in a 60-and-a-half-hour period. Guys, that's not gonna happen. Put your hand on your conscience, for God's sake, and this process, this bag of lawmaking technique, is now being used enough, and let me be clear, some of the laws have a purpose, such as to pass it on under the fingernails -- so to speak -- every day, I think it's important to me. Now, friends, when we actually looked at this law -- they're going to talk about our real friends in detail -- but for example -- why did the law come? When I looked at it, it was so urgent that the 71-point bill passed through the Commission, we were expecting that it would come to the General Assembly, and suddenly this bill came into play -- as I said -- in one hour and one hour of the night -- we came across it with the document left to our offices or whatever it is. Now, look, it says here that the need to make arrangements on various issues within the scope of the demands and needs of our citizens in recent times may indeed be such a thing. For example, such urgency may be involved in the Traffic Law, but friends, for example, the extension of the mandates of NGO executives from what demands, whose request was that? Was it really the request of our citizens? I guess I'm just saying that's not the case. Now, in general, when we look at this law in general, we admit that it is a law that has a purpose for an election investment, at least that kind of a bill. Because when you look at all of these substances, why is this substance? The answers you're going to get are, I don't know, a pardon for traffic tickets, or a pardon for punishments at bridge crossings, or property tax, which is not paid in villages whose corporate personality has been removed, are all sorts of things, such as the postponement of tax fees to the municipality until 2022, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. and so on and so forth. All of this, basically, to a part of the community before the local elections... We don't know what cut it is, and we don't know how wide it is, guys. For example, how many people are affected by the removal of traffic tickets? I don't know, but you've probably calculated it, or Mr. Mehmet Mush has calculated it, and we can assume it's affected a large number. So I think that's the kind of thing that's going to force the budget -- it's what it says, Mr. Berat Colonel, where's the financial discipline? - all of these substances, as far as I'm concerned, are fundamentally contrary to fiscal discipline. Now, friends, there are some prejudices at the Justice and Development Party that I personally see and I would like to share in this conversation. One of them is that you say this very often: Since 2002, you speak as if you had created a revolution in the economy. Guys, this isn't happening. I mean, it sounds like it to you, but it's not. Look, I'll tell you a painting, which I calculated the other day: in 2002, Turkey was ranked 72nd in the national income rankings per person, up to 68. How many steps has he taken? Four steps up, four steps up. But, my friends, Russia was at 81 in 2002, up to 65, so there were 16 digits. Romania -- you don't like it -- was 91st in 2002, up to 63, so it jumped 28 steps. Serbia -- part of Yugoslavia -- was number 90 in 2002, up to 86 in 2018, up to 4 in size. But friends, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. Kazakhstan was number 107 in 2002, and it jumped 27 steps in 2018 to rank 75. Turkmenistan jumped 16 steps from 1999 to 83. Now, friends, this painting says that there is no revolution, my friends. So the world's conjunctural has already led to certain economies, and the well-used have taken steps. Oh, how far have we gotten? We've taken four steps. Have mercy, is there any reason why we call it revolution? So this is a perception operation. I didn't see the Çelebi. But he keeps telling me we're operating on perception. I don't know what mechanism we're operating on. Guys, I think this is a perception operation for you. In fact, since the Justice and Development Party came to power in 2002, Turkey has only been able to raise Turkey four steps above the world's national income ranking.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0123par0116	He's three stories older, sir. Three floors.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0117	Now, you can look at it that way, but let me tell you, the paintings are very clear, so if you don't believe too much, I'll give you their resources, too. The world says that you have walked, Turkey has walked, but friends have walked faster than Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0123par0118	Maybe.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0119	Does it make sense, then, to count our march as the march of revolution? I don't think so.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0124par0120	It makes perfect sense.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0121	No, not at all. So you're fooling yourself, you're trying to trick us, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0124par0123	Look at the internal growth in our economy.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0125par0124	Guys, we have a friend on the stand. There's no such procedure. We haven't started asking questions.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0125	Now, fellas, what I'm saying is very clear and clear, so you don't have to mix it up. I mean, no matter how you look at it, this painting tells the truth, and the fact is, you haven't created an extraordinary legend yet, it doesn't exist. Until 2007-2008, when you have more respect for democracy, when your relations with the European Union are closer -- I've told you this before -- you've caught it, but after 2009-2010, I think I'll tell you that you've gone through a great -- I'm sorry -- you're ineptitude in managing the Turkish economy. Now, there's another perception, and I'm hearing it from you again, and you're saying something like, what's wrong with you, you're making equal choices, we're on equal terms. People chose us, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera. Friends, how are we even? I mean, this chest and democracy aren't so equal, so how can you say that? Let me just say the simplest thing is, let's leave the amount of capital you can use aside from the 375 million you've received from the government, the 70-80 million we've received, and let's put that aside, but how can friends be equal? We can't get a minute on any TV about the People's Democratic Party, but you -- as our orator friend just said -- Recep Tayyip Erdogan is on TV at any moment. So, now, are we going to be equal to the election, guys?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0126par0128	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0129	Thanks. If you call it equality, I have nothing to say to you, but I don't see it as equality, and I don't think anyone will see it either. Thus, friends, this is the second problem of perception that exists at the Justice and Development Party. Third, there's another one, and I'll say that for some reason, you give all your statistics in 2002, 2002-2017, 2002-2018. Guys, I mean, this isn't the right approach. This is something so strange that recently Naci Bostancı said, "Sir, in terms of dollars, the minimum wage in 2002 was $113, but we went up to $426 in 2018." Yes, it seems true, doesn't it? But it's not true, it's not true. For example, do it with the gold account, and you'll know it's not true. Take a quarter of a gold account in 2002 -- because I did it, you can do it -- you could get seven quarters of gold in 2002 -- at minimum wage, you can get 5.5 quarters of gold in 2019. So friends, your comparisons don't tell the truth when you start from 2002. It's part of a perception operation. Of course, you're free to operate on perception, and you've got great possibilities, right, all the TVs are working for you, but there's also the fact that friends are real, they're not real, you're wrong and you're wrong. Now, recently...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0127par0132	People can't be wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0133	I'll tell you. Recently, Mr. Vice President or vice president -- excuse me -- came to us, and he gave us an opinion on the budget, and the interesting thing is, he gave me two digits, and he mentioned two things. One was the trust index, one was the CDS, which was the trust index for us on the outside markets. He said they're both cured. But I looked at it that day, and I saw it getting worse. For example, look, the trust index has fallen from 59.6 to 58.2, so I'll tell my master that all of yours, Berat Collarak, we're doing odd jobs, and we're saving Turkey. The CDS are also similar when you look at the dates -- here you can look at it -- up from 348,64 to 351,55, which is counter-readable. So the way the outside world looks at you, the way Turkey looks at you, it's actually developing in a way that involves insecurity. Now, friends, I mean, you're doing this, these spokesmen of yours are using them, but they have nothing to do with reality. The facts are very simple. Go to the market, see, friends; go to the street, see. You'll find there's a fire site, and I'll say it in the Berat Colonel's special. He first launched such a campaign to reduce 10 per cent of prices in the fight against inflation. Friends, even the meaning of that campaign was strange because it was supposed to be something that was supposed to be voluntary, and it would finally get a chance to say: See, we're taking positive steps in inflation. Friends, look, just the other day the BDDK is writing letters to the banks, saying: "Ask me the steps you will take." He says, "Don't step on your own." There was an onion issue, you know, you went to the onion warehouses.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0128par0138	Teacher, I'm here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0139	Yes, you did, but you were late. These and similar measures, friends, are not anti-inflationist combat styles, they are not their policies. You need to create a national compromise, if you can, about really bringing inflation down. You can't just volunteer like that. Officially, whether you call it the classroom or the communities in the community, they need to come together and make a decision within the framework of inflation-related revenue policy, a compromise needs to be made. But that's not on your agenda at all. And so I think you're going in and out. Since 2010 -- as far as I'm concerned -- all the decisions you've made in the economy -- are they free markets or state interventions? And from what I've seen, every day, every time the law comes, you're moving fast to form a party state, essentially, by turning every authority over to the President and the state. And this, really, is more dangerous than you'll ever know, my friends. Party government, you know there's a lot of that in geography. Esed, Assad, whatever it is - I'll tell my master it happens in most of the other Middle East countries. And unfortunately, I see you're taking quick steps to create it here. And you think, or at least I understand from what you're doing, that if we centralize the economy, if we reduce the number of decision-makers in the economy, we'll be more effective, we'll work faster. But friends, it doesn't happen that way, it hasn't happened anywhere in the world, the world hasn't recorded that kind of thing, economic developments in the world. So after I've talked about these issues -- I already have three minutes left -- to think about one thing -- what the guy before me was talking about, and what Mr. Noahoglu was talking about again -- because I've talked about it before -- that it might be helpful to bring it up. Now, friends, the problem isn't that we have different ideas. They may have different ideas, we may have different ideas. Different ideas are open to discussion, controversial, understandable or indistinguishable, whatever. But the argument between us, the debate over values, which is not possible here, friend, is not possible forever. If you're expressing your political purpose through a system of values in politics, if someone else is expressing it in a similar way, it's not possible for the two groups of people to come together and come together and come to terms and compromise, friends, and that's our purmelal. We're talking here, but we're just talking; we're not trying to compromise here, we're not trying to come up with a common opinion here, guys, let's not kid ourselves. I just got here, and I've been seeing it since the day I got here, and I'm trying to say it in awe. What kind of democracy is this, what kind of democracy is this? What kind of democracy is that? Is that our democracy? How old is it? There's a mistake here, my friends, and this mistake -- I mean, I won't say it belongs to anyone -- it could be a mistake that everyone has made, maybe, or it could be a mistake that everyone has contributed in some way, but I have to say, the biggest mistake is making it your favorite leader, Mr. President. Mr. President is doing politics, camping and politics by polarizing this community as best he can, and he's missing the fact: Why is he doing this? He's doing this to consolidate his fans, but friends, the consolidation is bilateral, and while you're consolidating, the opposite side is consolidated, the society splits 50 percent and Turkey is now 50 percent. So I'll tell you this: Everyone's fists are getting bored. So you can't say: "Those who live in Beşiktaş, those who live in Çankaya, they've had their share of Turkey's profits." You can't say that. Or do we go back to the argument just now, very simple... sir, do we say "Kulliya" or "Saray"?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0129par0148	Just call it "Culliah" and call it "Kulliya."
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0149	Yes, but there are those who want to say "saray" too, so what do we do now?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0130par0150	His official name is Ashliya.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0151	So, official... whose formality is that?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0130par0152	The Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0153	There's no such thing, no. Sir, you're forgetting, look, you're talking from a majority place.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0130par0154	He's not a palace, he's not a fugitive. It's an escaped palace. You say it's not a fugitive.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0122par0155	No, you represent 50 percent of Turkey, that's all. You don't represent all of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0131par0156	Teacher, what's your last name? Can we call you by another name?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0132par0157	What you just said is true, teacher, you have values, we have values.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0133par0158	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0159	Guys, you understand me, but you feel compelled to talk. But I'm telling you that even though it's not understood anymore, there's nothing I can do, to be honest, but from the moment we identify politics, political parties with our values, political parties lose their meaning, and democracy loses its meaning. That's why I think democracy in Turkey doesn't exist, it doesn't work. There's no point in us going to the trunk, I'll tell you that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0132par0160	That's what some people say.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0161	Yeah, it's worth nothing. It's gone, it's voted in the chest, but it's the painting that's going to come out in the end. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one moment, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0135par0164	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0136par0165	I mean, there's no such thing as humiliating people's will. You're insulting people's will.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0166	I'm not insulting anyone, guys. He knows me, he knows where I'm talking from. I say you're doing it wrong, especially Mr. President. So this is such a polarizing policy... our friend Noahoglu just told me that everyone's nervous. Does that work for you? Does that work for you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0137par0167	Don't be nervous, Hajji, why are you getting nervous? We're just talking.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0168	Well, he's always saying things, Mr. President, every day on every television, and naturally, people are uncomfortable, too.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0138par0169	He's responding.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0170	I mean, does a person who lives in Beşiktas really get the credit for this country? I'll show you the slums in Beşiktas. It's a shame! You can't say that. Especially what he said about the Conqueror Orange is unacceptable.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0139par0171	Teacher, what happened?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0172	It's a family name. It's not called orange or tangerine or something.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0140par0173	No insult to the family, Hajji. No insult to the family.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0174	Friends, but I'll tell you this: I'm very disappointed in you because one of you can't come out and say, "Oh, Mr. President, you're doing it wrong." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Why don't you tell me that one of you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0140par0177	We have nothing to do with the family, Hajji.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0178	Why don't one of you guys come up with something like that? That's what's expected of you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0140par0179	Our business is not with the family, it's with the troublemakers.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0141par0180	Guys, don't talk to each other.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0134par0181	But I'm telling you again: by 2008, the Justice and Development Party was the name of an objection, now the name of a biat. Thank you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0141par0184	Mr. Mulecioğlu, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0142par0185	That orange is fruit, not last name.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0143par0186	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0141par0187	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0143par0190	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that Mr. Mulecioglu has created a very calm tension. Now, I'm going to say a few things, there may be a lot of issues, but the thing I care about most is, I think, this is a party state issue. In the history of Turkey's democracy, we've seen a matter of a party state, so how to perform with one party, how to become a party state, we've seen this. I think it's very unfair to describe the existing system in this country. What you call democracy is something that's already developing. We, the AK PARTY, are trying to do this in Turkey, and we're trying to do it in Turkey, but you can't be in and out of a system, a party, and you can't be in and out of it. We are the party's own mechanisms -- we were at our president's speech yesterday -- we are a party that has built its own convention, and we are standing up to this day because we did it. I suggest you recommend what you're offering us to your own party. What you're doing, how you're getting together, what rings you're getting together, what relationships you're having, I think you should do inside yourself, so I think you should do what you're recommending to us before you do it, which means something to you. Now, about our President, he's creating tension. The matter is important. On the contrary...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0144par0195	On the contrary?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0143par0196	I'll put it in a sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0145par0197	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0143par0198	On the contrary, in Turkey, Mr. President's presence is the most unifying element, so we say it over and over again, but July 15th is a witness to what happened on July 15th. And what we're going to combine is that -- yes, we each have different values as people, as parties, but as universal values -- we have to have common values, so that this democracy works, that there's going to be continuity in social life. Law is one of them, democracy is one of them, human rights is one of them; we have a lot of values to combine. Otherwise, I don't think we'll be able to do business together. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0146par0200	Mr. President, may I have an answer, please?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0147par0201	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0148par0202	He said it very nicely, so I'll give it to him.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0147par0203	Let's not make a fuss, Mr. Hodja. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0149par0206	Now, I mean, the one-party reference, Mrs. Özlem. The one-party period has emerged under very special circumstances, and today is not an example of anyone's defense.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0207	There's no party government today anyway. I'm amazed at how you say that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0149par0208	So, now, I'm surprised that you don't see your party, especially the antidemocratic stance of your party, at a point where everything, when all the possibilities are so advanced, when ideas about democracy have become widespread and have changed in the world, at a point where people understand better what democracy means. Because if you really want to sit down and talk, how many people are in jail today in Turkey, how many are on trial? Our co-chairs are still on trial without a proper indictment. Please, when we look at these, Miss Miss Özlem, I mean, I'm really surprised, to tell you the truth. Because I...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0151par0210	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0211	May I have a word, Mr. President? Just one word, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0152par0212	I want a promise, too, if that's the way it is.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0151par0213	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0215	I'd like to point out to Mr. Kadarcıoğlu: Look, there's nothing wrong with complaining about the circumstances we're in, but when you say "party state" instead of "party state," it goes to a very different place, a different place.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0153par0216	But it is, and we're going somewhere else.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0154par0217	We're in a one-man state, you're right.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0218	But no, it's not like that, so we strongly deny it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0154par0219	He's right, we're in a one-man phase, not a single party.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0220	I mean, we're all trying to get democracy to live in Turkey, to improve its quality. That's what our Parliamentary arithmetic shows today. So when you say that, you kick and destroy everything that exists. And I think it's probably this much responsibility for the opposition to express their positive values. So if everything falls apart, everything's a disaster, everything's falling apart; can there be such opposition? I'm asking you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0155par0222	Yes, it is.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0150par0223	So it's good to at least see what's being done. I think that Parliamentary arithmetic is a witness to democracy in Turkey. That's it, I'll say it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0156par0225	You've got your eye on him.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0157par0226	Mr. Altay, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0227	And I've been having this one party discussion...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0159par0228	You're offended, that's good.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0229	I don't take it personally, there's nothing to take it personally. That party was everybody's party.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0159par0230	Right, so that's the right take.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0231	I assume you've made your promise, Mr. President, may I begin?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0160par0232	Yeah, sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0234	Now...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0161par0235	There was no other party until 1950.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0160par0236	Mr. Bacheloroglu, this is your group president speaking, I gave him my word.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0237	So, since you don't get Turkey to talk, everyone talks as much as they can, that's what the AK PARTY put Turkey into, a negative state.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0160par0238	For you, too, I suppose.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0239	Now, nobody said anything about a multiparty regime until 1946. I'm passing 1946, even 1946, and we haven't said that there's a democracy in Turkey that's running smoothly until 1950. So a young republic was formed from the ashes of an empire, and it needed a certain amount of time, despite all the goodwill of efforts to move on to democracy. But despite everything, the Ismet Inönu, which you have often criticised, has allowed Turkey to meet democracy with a political maturity and a love of democracy, which will result in very few political leaders in the world. Democracy came to Turkey in 1950. We are not telling the truth. Your friend, it's not that wrong with what our congressman said, the chest is one of the basic, central parameters of democracy, but the fact that elections are being held in a country doesn't mean democracy is working smoothly in that country. As for the concept of the party state, in the 1950s, yes, there was only one party in Turkey, including the late Menderes, Celal Bayar, and the current President's grandfather, everyone was in it. So right now, our friends from the AK PARTY and other parties, their grandparents, or their fathers, were part of this party. That party was a state party, not a party state, Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0160par0242	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0243	During the transition to democracy, there was a need for a partying for the process of meeting the republic -- parties are essential to democracies -- a big party was formed -- the People's Party -- and then we got to the point that we now know from the inside of this party. But the real party state -- I call it the party state -- is now in existence. The head of the state represents the president representing the union of the nation and the state in the province, but the president of the district of AK PARTI also represents the governor; he represents the governor in the district, and the president of the AK PARTI also represents the district. It's a shame, it's a sin. If lists of people you're going to run five months a year, eight months a year, are made in party buildings...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0162par0245	It's picked up by the draw.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0163par0246	We're making them do it with lots, they're buying it with lots.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0158par0247	...there's an ice-cold, honey-soaked party state here, and people are uncomfortable with it. On March 31st, we'll all live to see it. And don't take refuge in this: for 16 years, the nation has voted for us. It's a pity, it's a sin. These people gave you what you wanted, and you gave away what you wanted, and that's what Turkey is for. I believe that people will make the best of these developments in the upcoming election. If it's polemic, I'll take your word for it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0165par0251	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0253	Mr. President, one sentence... There was nothing wrong with Mr. Altay, so no bullying, nothing.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0166par0255	Why, dear, you too...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0256	Why is it so personal when you say one party? Well, then, the founding of the whole country, the beginning, then I guess there's no need to defend it again.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0166par0257	No, of course not, yeah. As much as I do, that CHP is your CHP.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0258	The problem here is that no one in this country can identify the AK PARTY with one party government, and they can't say that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0166par0259	I brought it. I don't regret it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0260	You're not, so you can't win anything.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0166par0261	Look, he's running for office again.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0262	People see you, see you, remember you, still remember those days. It's so occupied, so transmitted that when people hear it, they're like, "Oh, my God! Will we return to those days, or will they again be forbidden? So as long as you continue to defend them, we will continue to win. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0167par0265	Now on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0168par0266	I made a promise, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0164par0267	So what?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0168par0268	But I wanted to.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0169par0269	Let the bachelor speak first, then.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0170par0270	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0168par0271	He accused me of defending the bans. I even want to talk about bullying. He said to me, "You continue to defend these prohibitions." Isn't that teasing? Is that something to say to a politician in Parliament?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0171par0272	Why, why, what? I don't understand.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0172par0273	Where's the politician?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0168par0274	Is that a word, Mr. President? I demand my place.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0173par0276	Mr. President, I mean the one-party days. It's a lot of moisture; it's an interesting thing, Mr. President is very touchy.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0174par0277	He's so sensitive and sensitive.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0175par0278	Now, friends... Mr. Altay, please. In a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0176par0282	There was no telling how many kids no one would give birth to during the one-party period.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0177par0283	And now it's not.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0176par0284	No matter what anyone drank, what they ate, what they wore, how they wore.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0178par0285	He couldn't find it, sir, so he could find something to eat.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0176par0286	No one was forced to go to the mosque, and no one was forced to go to the tavern.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0179par0287	And now it is.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0176par0288	Now all the basic rights and freedoms that exist in this Constitution have been delivered to the ends of one person's two lips. If there's a democracy here, I'm blind. Is that even possible? It destroys democracy. Recep Erdogan does, you don't. Democracy is not a regime to be run according to Erdogan's pleasure, and Turkey will continue to be the talker Turkey. You don't get a bonus by scribbling the old one. Someone who could have done better in those days. I don't mean to criticize that regime, to criticize Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, to criticize Ismet Pasha, but to be criticized, of course. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But today, it's a political epiphany of those who abuse Ataturk, when they try to be tolerated, that they can't stand criticism of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, that they can't be included in democracy. For the record.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0179par0292	Mr. President, one last sentence...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0180par0293	Here you go, Mr. Rich.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0179par0295	Mr. President, there's Turkey speaking, and Mr. Altay says whatever he wants, and he'll say it anyway.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0181par0296	I'll tell him.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0182par0297	He's putting everyone in jail.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0179par0298	We exist for him, we exist for him. I mean, what's wrong with saying it? For once, let Mustafa Kemal Ataturk give up his only CHP ownership. We need to agree on basic values in this country. Everyone can be criticized, anyone can be criticized up to certain points, historical realities and so can those present. This is about the procedure, the method. There is no democracy in Turkey while you do so. If you say there is no democracy in Turkey, you are doing it wrong. I'm saying it hurts you. Nothing's happening to us, it's not hurting us because the citizen understands every word you're saying with a deeper understanding than you're saying, a sense from the past, he knows all the applications, he's lived, and he's made a decision from them. Yeah, I'm amazed at how a team does, does, does, does, and doesn't take any of the target audiences. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit02spe0183par0301	Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0183par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 38. Commission? He's in position. The final word on the entire proposal is from İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0011	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all. Now, I'm going to speak on behalf of my group for Law Proposal 38, but before that, I'd like to get to a few things. My dear friends, Turkey is in trouble with three important issues. One of them -- we're talking -- is the economic crisis. Mr. President and members of the ruling party say there is no economic crisis. He's the one who appreciates him now. Politically and socially, Turkey is going through a crisis -- very clearly, as clearly as it seems -- from the previous discussions. As this is not enough, my dear friends, our country, which has already been troubled by foreign policy and international relations, has been dragged into more challenges over the past few months. My dear friends, it is always said that there are terrors that threaten our security from our southern borders. So we have to be here, like this, and we have to do these things. Now, we understand that... of course, Turkey -- the government or Mr President -- didn't say anything, but the President of the United States said: "We're going and we're leaving the fight against the DEAŞ in this region to Turkey. We're not just leaving the fight to Turkey, but my dear friends, you know, in the gap from the withdrawal of America, we're looking at the regime forces starting to move forward, starting to take some towns, and we're getting publications. What's so special about these days? And we're on our way to the March 31st election. Now, as we head towards the 31st of March elections, the economic problem is that there is a serious problem with growth. No, here's 1.6, despite everything we've grown. But you've come from seven. It's not growth, and we all know what's going to happen in the fourth quarter. There's a certain unemployment rate, despite everything, we beat the dollar. We're not beating anything, it's moving between 5.30 and 5.50, so there are serious problems in the economy. There's no industrial growth, no shrinking, so there's gonna be more problems in the coming days. My dear friends, in such an environment, Mr. President -- two things he knows very well -- are taking Turkey to the election with tension. What does it have to do with this package? And this package is an election package, so I'm telling you, dear friends. Since the start of the Justice and Development Party, he has been constantly, especially after 2010, stretching society, polarizing society, almost touching nerve endings, taking Turkey to the election. It's very tense, Turkey; we sit on this thing every day, no one can make a sound. What one of us says when he speaks is true, and what one of us says when he speaks is wrong, and all the people on the other side are traitors, terrorists. Thus it goes. It's not a problem if any person says that -- of course it's a problem -- but it's a very serious problem for the President to say it. Friends, who are you, Mr. President? Who are you? (CHP) Of course you're President, but I mean, you're not a lawyer, there are courts. Ya, he used to signal the courts in some way, now he gives orders, decides his sentence, doesn't mention a law clause, my dear friends. That's not going to happen, with this Turkey can't travel, my dear friends, Turkey will crash somewhere. Look, where we step on the ground, the ground of the state of law, is the ground where we stand on all of us. If this ground is wiped out, we'll all disappear, our precious friends, our chances of survival. Now, that's what we're talking about, my dear friends, with the Highway Traffic Law and the Proposal for Change in Some Laws are 12 clauses, with nine different laws being changed. Now, before we get to the terms of this law, how did this law come, and how do other laws come to be, we need to talk about it, we need to talk about it in a very broad way, dear friends. This bag of legislation is no longer a system Turkey can carry. Once, my dear friends, when you were coming to the presidential system or the presidential system, you said: "The Parliament will be very strong, the law will bring law entirely, the government or the President will not bring the bill." Now, my dear friends, the law proposals are coming. Why are we making a fool of ourselves, guys? There are so many technical issues... that our friend, who made this bill, doesn't live here now.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0185par0022	I'm here, I'm here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0023	How did he know all this? How did he know about the coordinates in this Bosporus? Obviously, the government is bringing it, the bureaucrats are bringing it, but we're lying to each other, dear friends. I brought it." He says, but he's sitting on the Commission with government officers behind him. And I say, as opposition, this bill is wrong, this clause is wrong, but there's no one behind me. He's got government officers behind him, taking advantage of them. It's wrong, my dear friends, you can't do this, you can't do this, we're laughing at our democracy, all of us. That's not how it works. Look, the other day, what happened to our Congresswoman, who is currently running the House? Look, it is the legal proposal of Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop....to ratify the agreement between the Turkish Republic's government and the government of Qatar. Mr. Sentop, congratulations. He's made a deal for our government and he's bringing the law proposal here. No, you forgot this, my dear friends. In the Constitution, how international agreements will be, how... the government will offer it, there is no other way. Now, look, this system is kind of going on right now, so in order for it to go on, we have to stop being stubborn with its power, with its opposition, and we have to fix it. Otherwise, we're gonna look really funny, my dear friends. We can't do this. We can't go anywhere with this. As for the proposal of the law, it was due to the needs of our citizens. A friend of ours just asked me. So the members of the High Election Board... I'm very sorry, Mr. Kadarcioglu, can't the members of the High Election Board be in need, are they not citizens? They need to extend it for a year. They provide for it. This bill, my dear friends, do you know who needs it? Here's what your government needs, the President needs, and I'll name him Mr. Bululi Yıldırım. At 29, I believe, he's being announced as the candidate for the mayor of Istanbul. He's going to Istanbul with this package, it's obvious. And from now on, let no one claim that this election is a free election. One of the candidates is making law, and one of the candidates has the authority to make law. He's leaving, having a meeting with the truckers in Istanbul. Did they punish you too much? I've forgiven you! He comes here, immediately, with the Justice and Development Party Group, and the National Movement Party Group all the time, and they say, OK. They immediately make the law against Mr. Bakili Yıldırım. This goes by law. Oh, and I'll tell you this: we'll say yes to many of the articles in this law, so there are some arrangements, we'll say yes to them, we'll say yes to them, we'll say yes to them, we'll say yes to them, we'll say yes to our criticism, my dear friends. Now, if I go into the materials, my dear friends, I won't dwell on them all very much, but the first article, actually, was discussed earlier in the Turkish National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission; there was a 71-point bag, which was taken from that bag. What is this? Joining the Police Care and Help Ark. My dear friends, there are now over 280,000, over 300,000 members of the Police Department, and only 45,000 members of this crate. Now, from now on, all of your fellow officers will be required to join here. This, my friends, is contrary to Article 33 of the Constitution, violation of Article 48 of the Union...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0186par0030	No, not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0031	Okay, you can tell me in a little while. Why didn't these guys sign up, why did 45,000 members of 288,000? There are two reasons, either the police are in real trouble, or they don't believe in this crate, they don't believe it's for their own benefit, my dear friends. Then why do we have to sign up for law enforcement? This is wrong. We've made a motion to remove this substance, and I expect you to support it, my dear friends. I'm not going to talk about every substance, and our friends are going to talk about departments and materials. One of the issues is that there's been a change in the Highway Traffic Law, and the change in the third article is that in 2019, all the fines have increased by the rate of revaluement of the tuition, and there will be no traffic tickets. At first glance, it sounds like a lot of things, but it makes me wonder why other punishments aren't done, why other tuitions aren't done? Our friends said, "We made a change in this matter two months ago. " They really did. Two months ago in this House, Mr. Rich, we made a law with that name, you know? That's the same name as the Law on Road Traffic and Changes in Some Laws. Look, where are you? We passed the same law two months ago, and we increased the fines for some traffic crimes, but traffic mobs were targeted, at that time, there were killings and so forth, and you did it to get rid of it, and to deter it, and now they're saying, "We've already increased traffic tickets, so we won't increase it in 2019. Isn't it obvious that you're doing this for the election, my dear friends? Isn't there going to have to be a deterrent thing in 2019? It will be, but that's how you spend it. Another item, my dear friends of the 4th article. This is the 4th article, about the zoning pardon we issued earlier in May. That May, when you said that the Bosphorus vision area was this zoning pardon, zoning peace, there was an exception to the zoning peace. Why? Because there's the Bosphorus Law. With this law, such a thing cannot be done in Boğaziçi. The Bosphorus Law, you know, dear friends, came out in 1983. He's got something amazing. So tell us about our ancestors, from the past, Turkey's signature, a few of these very distinctive signs about Turkey. If you call one of them the Bosphorus. The Bosphorus Law was passed that we would protect this Bosphorus and leave it to future generations. But whatever was written in the Bosphorus Law has all been violated. Politicians -- I don't discriminate -- the mayors, those officers, they all violated, and today, that's what happened to the Bosporus. Now, we're going to legitimize this, but there are two issues here, and we support one of them. What do we support? He came to Istanbul, looked for a place to live and built a house there. Why? Because the government didn't do its social work, so the citizen built a house, went there, built a house. It's been years. Here's Ozal, he gave me a deed, he said it, that's what he said. It came and went during all the election times. He wants to buy his house, and then he wants to buy two apartments if it's a two-bit apartment. Enjoy your bath. You have to give this away, dear friends. There are little houses like these, which are right at the bottom of the Fethipaşa Grove; I know them, I visit them, I drink their tea. You have to give them to these poor people, but there are those who prey on these poor people, and there are those who create rants. Mr. Secretary's out operating on perception, my dear friends. Your Minister Murat Kurum said: "We don't offer pardons to the Indians. " My dear friends, there is no such thing as forgiveness to the insurgents. All of them, almost all of them, are historical artifacts registered 99% of them. It'll be fine. Maybe he built the roof of a garage or something. There's no such thing as a yacht, no such thing, no law, no such thing. So why would a big minister operate on perception, lie to people, dear friends? No, these people will be protected here too, and we have no right to make such a law. Rewrote this article, separate it, separate it however you want to separate it, dear friends. Oh, and we don't have a problem with what we call a zoning pardon, as you know, our dear friends, there's no problem there. Look, the main problem of Turkey today is the earthquake, my dear friends, the main problem of Istanbul. Everyone is in danger of an earthquake, talking, talking. What was done, what was done, in 16 years about the earthquake? Someone tell me that we've done such things about the depression, we've solved it. The Law of Ha, 6306 came up, but nothing was done about it. You didn't leave an earthquake gathering in Istanbul, you opened it all up, you built it, my dear friends! When an earthquake happens, there's no safe place for people to gather, and this substance, this law, this zoning pardon, doesn't bring anything to do with the earthquake. My dear friends, see what he says, I won't go too far: the earthquake resistance of your structure is the responsibility of the king. We make a big change, we raise money, and we say we'll use it for earthquake transformation. How much you've gathered, how much you've divided it into, let someone make that statement. There is no such explanation, but nothing is being done about the earthquake; Turkey's main problem, nothing is being done. It's not really a zoning pardon, we're fooling the citizen. What happens, what happens then; he's here to fall, so what's the matter with these friends, somebody tell him to come. Do you have a deed or do you have one? No. So it's not really a zoning pardon; it's pre-election, pre-June 24th, now it's being renewed, it's being reminded of again. Why? Because Istanbul is going away. When Istanbul is gone -- let's just say it's a registered palace -- you'll have to leave the palace, my dear friends, the polls show it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0187par0039	He's not going anywhere, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0040	So, how are the candidates going to run for the election, my precious friends, when there's a parliamentary president who's going to run for office without resignion, who's going to be running for office in Istanbul? Mercy, how can this be a choice? Is there such a thing? No. Anyway, let's move on, my dear friends. Another problem is the third article. A change is being made in the Law on the Ministry of the General Directorate of Highways. And this change is actually a pardon, which requires a qualified majority. The Supreme Court has made other decisions. There are high sentences. From the 1st and second bridge, the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th and the bridge of Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror are prohibited from crossing. First of all, don't let anyone tell you that it's just for traffic. You know, with that public-private partnership you gave me, 30 years, 50 years guaranteed, with the guarantees of passage -- dollars and euros -- you forced the people on the bridges to win, my dear friends, you accidentally punished the passers-by.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0188par0042	Not at all, Hajji.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0043	And they were never served in any way in their time. Why wasn't he served? It wasn't served because the elections were coming, there were elections, it was always canceled. Now, there's so many truckers that there's a trucker who's fined $100,000, dear friends. So, Mr. Speaker met with these truckers, and they told me. It's a disaster... you did it, you're doing things like that, it's not a free choice! Before the election, you turn off the cameras of this electronic control system so there'll be no traffic problems, and don't write to traffic cops. Yeah, well, you do everything to win an election. He's making the country nervous to win an election, Mr. President, moving the ground we're stepping on, Mr. President. We don't know what's going on in the South, we don't know who to fight, my dear friends. You're doing this to win an election, and that's what it's like. But since you bring such a pardon, grant pardon to the punishments for crossing the other bridge, and in general, forgive all those who have crossed the third bridge by mistake; there is no such thing. Let's move on, my dear friends, we have the 6th article. And this 6th article is interesting, and I'm saying we're partly supporting it. You know, in the villages, towns, and towns where these cities were built, there came to people some obligations, because they were involved in the city, and that's from water money to real estate taxes, these taxes were postponed by law, and now you're putting them off again, my dear friends. There's two things here, too. One, there really are villagers, so they brought water to their house, and now you're going to put water in it, and you're going to get about 25 percent of the minimum bill in that city. It's a troubled, troubled thing. There's no delay, let's get rid of it altogether, no taxes from them, my dear friends. It's not hard to make that happen. We sit down... where people actually live in village settlements, whether they're really farmers or beekeepers, whether they're greenhouses, livestock, that's not hard to determine. Let's not take property tax from them, let's not take water money from them, and let's not take any of the other fees. But there are places here, my dear friends, where there are millions of dollars of villas in Beskoz, not just in Beskoz, but in Sariyer, Zechariahköy -- let's not do everything -- villas. We're not going to tax these million-dollar places, we're going to delay them; you're doing this, dear friends. You guys are so slick! You're doing a lot of wrong, you're doing a lot of wrong. Moving on. There's something else, accession banks -- that's a great trick -- that's why you bring them some exemptions when you use instruments about the rent certificate. There are bans, there are bans according to other banks. So you have trouble using these derivatives. Now, the money's gone, you're going to raise money. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me a little more time, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0189par0050	Wait a minute... Here, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0052	It's still a relief to people who stay away from banks and such because of their beliefs; it's on the accession banks, these papers are clean. It's not that, brother, we've read this place, we've blown it, you can process it here. You've come to a point like that, you've come to a point like that, but there's nothing here. There was a tax pardon earlier, you know, in a 71-point bag, and you took it from this bag and brought it here. This makes it very clear that almost 25 percent of the people who benefit from the tax forgiveness were able to pay. Which means there's been a very serious crisis in the country. There's something else, my dear friends, and we wanted to throw something in this bag as the Republican People's Party. We made a motion to give 3600 additional indicators to the teachers, to the members of the police, to the members of the religion, to the medics and to the public defenders. Unfortunately, you rejected him. Because your job isn't to the masses, your job is to win elections in Istanbul, but Ekrem, unfortunately, dear friends who will send our Speaker back. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0059	Dear friends, in a way that I don't quite understand the relationship with the speaker on the stand, I was asked by the law to agree to the deal with Qatar No. 27 rows. You know, the 90th article of the Constitution states that international agreements will be adopted by Parliament under a law. We also made an amendment to the Civil Code at the beginning of October in Article 90 of the Civil Code. It was an arrangement by the presidency that international agreements would be sent to parliament, that they would be announced after they were sent, and that a law proposal would be made by lawmakers to find it appropriate after the announcement. We've made this arrangement. Before that, we've discussed the laws of compliance with the proposals made by the Speaker of Parliament. That's a bill of law that I signed. Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0063	Mr. President, I mean, I didn't say that to criticize you personally. There's a freak here. So if this presidential system is going to continue, the government -- that's my personal opinion, I didn't talk to my party, I didn't argue -- should be able to bring a bill, Mr. President, that's not going to happen. There's something weird going on here. The government, a president is making a deal, the Foreign Minister is making a deal. Why are you bringing him? I'll get it. How is that possible? They're obviously telling you. They say from above: "This has come." How many international agreements are waiting, Mr. Sentop, Mr. President? I can see why you brought this here. I'm just saying, don't let you and another congressman get in trouble, and don't let these drug dealers get in trouble, they're bringing in all the time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0064	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0065	They're really getting in a tough spot. We're asking in the commission: What is this...?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0066	It's not appropriate for the two of us to continue this discussion.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0067	Oh, let's just sit down and get together between parties and sort this out. That's what I meant.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0069	This may be an example of other laws, but this example you're giving is a very bad example.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0070	This is the worst example, the worst example, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0071	International agreements in all systems, parliamentary systems and presidential systems...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0072	It's the worst example, and you had to deal with it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0073	I don't think you can answer without listening. In parliamentary systems and presidential systems, international agreements are signed by the executives, which are appropriate by parliaments, as well as by the legislature. In the United States of America, it's the same; it's usually accepted, it's removed, it's adopted, it's considered appropriate. So this is an example that will never be critical of the system.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0184par0075	I didn't say it wasn't. I mean, why didn't you bring someone else?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0191par0076	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0190par0077	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0191par0079	Mr. President, yesterday and today we had discussions about both freedom of the press and the coup. It has just fallen to social media: FOX TV has been sentenced to one million liras for what we expect, and to the fine of 80,000 euros for the public TV; again, three days for the evening news in FOX TV; and five days for the public TV program. Of course, we don't want anyone to face pressure on publication bans, on fine pressure, but -- I don't want to remember your name -- there are various channels, hate crimes every day, broadcasts about hate speech every day. But this painting here is an app that can be interpreted as a direct obstruction of opposition, suppression of the media. Look, I never set it up with the words "amama" and "but." The National Front was established before May 27th, and the names of those who were members of the National Front were read on the radios; then they were asked in the May 27th case as a case. We have to warn politics about the way we do politics, the way we tolerate differences, the way we tolerate criticism, the circumstances of the coup, the way we oppose the blows, no matter how much we oppose them -- no matter who they come from, no matter who they are.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0192par0084	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0191par0085	It's not love of the coup, it's not legitimizing the coup; on the contrary, there's no realism to a romantic blow in this country. Four times, five times the blow, the credit, the warning, the postmodern, whatever it is, it means concrete conditions are forming, and it's happening. The only way not to relive those sufferings is for politics to solve problems and learn from the circumstances that lead to a coup. If we don't learn from the wrongs between 1950 and 1960, if we make the same mistakes, unfortunately, we face the same consequences. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0192par0090	Now, on behalf of all of them, I'm going to make a promise to our two friends. First, Istanbul MP Emine Gülizar Emecan. Here you go, Mr. Emecan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0193par0095	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my own people on behalf of the esteemed MPs, Highway 38, and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my discussion on the proposal, I'd like to address some of the unjust attacks on two of our country's most valuable artists, Metin Akpınar and Mujdat Gezen. Dear lawmakers, these two artists have criticised almost every politician in our country for years through humor, through satire. Humor masters have always made it their goal to think while laughing, to create some awareness in society without breaking or pouring. The essence of all kinds of art has criticism and must exist. It's not art, it's flattery, it's humor, it's praise, it's what the politicians want. Therefore, to be tolerant of our artists, who are at the heart of our society, is a sign of development. Some of the general rhetoric expressed by our artists should not be considered personal criticism. Therefore, I feel that these attacks on our artists are unfair and unjust. This country does not need sycophants, it needs free-thinking, critical artists. And no one who doesn't consider himself a fascist, who doesn't consider himself a dictator is to blame for the description of fascism and its consequences in history. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're discussing a new bag of laws. In this proposal, of course, there are substances in favor of our citizens, which we agree with, which we see fit, but are our criticisms. But first, when we look at the content, the spirit, the content of the material that was in the proposal before New Year's, we come across a painting like this. Especially as long as this stuff comes in, when we think about the economic crisis that we're in, when we analyze things like this, some of them have some forgiveness in favor of the citizen. For example, the 2th article appears to be a reduction in the farmer's share of agricultural rooms; the 3rd article, no increase in traffic tickets based on revaluement; the 5th article, the pardon of traffic tickets on bridges; the 6th article, the postponement of the village's tax debt; the 10th article, tax pardons and debt payments, which solves the problems of the citizens, to ease them a little bit. We will, of course, participate in these arrangements as long as it's in the best interests of our citizens. However, when we look at some of the other articles, the first article requires law enforcement to be a mandatory member of the Ark; there is a regulation of the 4th article, the Bosporus coast and the presumption area; and the 9th article is all about an election arrangement, the YSK. When we evaluate the overall bag, on the one hand, it's an economic crisis to give citizens some comfort through pardons. And while we're going to the election, even though we consider it an election investment, we're still there for you, but just because we're there doesn't cover the fact that they're an election investment. I want to underline that, too. In addition, since there is no money in the safe because of the crisis, we see that where we can get it, where we can create it, there are materials brought in with anxiety, materials intended to voluntarily take money out of a citizen's pocket, and the other one is also intended for the election. Now, dear lawmakers, of course, I can't speak of all the items, but I'd like to mention a few of them, if I may. In particular, the 4th article: Building Law 3194 came out as a law that protects the contractor the most. Now, when we look at this new arrangement, it's a proposal that regulates giving building registration documents to the assets of those in the area of the throat prediction. Well, if we look at what this stuff is, first of all, it looks like the citizen over there is putting the concrete on top of the land, and that's the first one. Second: The pardon, the renovation, or the destruction, is absolutely not permitted. The citizen is recording his building there, yes, with a building registration document, but he won't be able to put a nail in it, maybe paint it. The citizen will only be able to paint, so he'll pay high prices for it, and he'll pay those costs voluntarily. What happens in case of an earthquake? Again, the law predicts that the citizen is responsible for security of the building until urban transformation, so if there is any earthquake until the urban transformation comes to that area -- which is an earthquake area, every moment, an earthquake -- a citizen will continue to live in the building where he can't even nail, but he will not get engineering service, he will not be able to nail a nail, he will wait for urban transformation. Now, here we want the victims of our citizen to be solved, of course, we're there for that, we're supportive of that, but this arrangement is a hasty arrangement. There were a number of uncertainties in this area, with the first zoning pardon law you passed, and with the zoning commission reports, you couldn't get out of it, you brought it as a law proposal, but I wish you'd put in an application that solves the property problems of a citizen, at least more useful, more efficient, and the citizens could actually benefit from it. It's a sketchy arrangement that's missing right now. At the same time, when we look at it from another angle, it needs to be added to this change that historical and registered buildings under the Law on the Protection of Culture and Natural Beings, 2863, are not covered. Dear friends, when this bill came to the Commission, there came pages full of code changes, code changes, and with those codes, Mr. Minister of Environment and Urbanism's statement of our Minister of Environment and Urbanism, the historical artifacts and proprietary artifacts are beyond that scope. But with these codes that even map engineers can't decipher, it's not understood, it's unsolvable. In this interim 16th article, the offer must be added to this proposal that registered buildings in the Bosphorus vision area have been excluded, just as historical areas in Gallipoli and historical sites in the battle of Çanakkale were excluded. Dear friends, another important item is the extension of the mandates of members of the Supreme Election Board. What's the motive here? Here's the reason: the elections will not be held in order because there is little time left in the election, so these times will be extended. First of all, how many members are being replaced? Changing six members. I'd like to point out that now, with this arrangement, the members of the upcoming Supreme Election Board will actually be elected new and will be discredited and devalued. So what this means is that if we make a change and new friends come, they can't do it, they can't do it. Now, that's not an accurate thesis. One: six people change, not all change. If six people are changing, why should there be chaos, and why shouldn't they? Second: If new friends have the capacity to come, why should it be chaos again and not change again? There may be only one reason, and we know that during the election period, members of the YSK made a decision: you know, they made an unconstitutional decision regarding the adoption of unsealed votes, and they mixed the election with the jury as a decision in favour of power, and they actually did exactly what the government wanted. Now, are these friends getting rewarded? Again, are some questionable decisions being made in the new elections, is that why these friends are being extended their term of office? Or are your new friends concerned that the High Election Board members will not do what the government has to say? Dear Regents, dear friends, this is a dangerous arrangement before the election. This arrangement must be immediately waived and this bag must be removed from the law immediately because this is the only way to prevent it from being involved in this election, and I want to stress that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll salute you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0194par0113	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0193par0114	Thank you. About other substances, our friends will discuss them in detail. I have shared my views with you on two particular articles that I would like to dwell on and emphasize. I wish him well. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0195par0119	Thank you. Giresun MP Cemal Ozturk. Here you go, Mr. Ozturk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0196par0124	Mr. President, I have taken a personal pledge on the value of lawmakers, the number-one Highway Traffic Act (2/1491), and the offer of the Dair Law to Change Some Laws. I salute the General Assembly. In the light of the recent demands and needs of our citizens, as well as the need to make arrangements for various issues, we have prepared this law with our Istanbul MP and AK PARTI Group Deputy President Mehmet Mush and 25 members of parliament and submitted it to the chairmanship of the Turkish National Assembly. The proposal came to the agenda of the General Assembly on December 24, 2018, when it was agreed to the 27th Union. In the beginning, the ten-point proposal was added to the application and executive clauses, with two more clauses provided during the talks on the Commission. The proposal of the law that we're talking about is that the penalties for violations on Highway 2918 were not increased by a review rate in 2019, because, as it is known, the amendments to Law 7148 and Highway Traffic Law on October 18, 2018 increased traffic tickets, and now it was not appropriate to increase those penalties again two months later. Again, the release of administrative fines issued to people passing through the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge on the condition that they be waived of appeals and open cases, although the fines collected in this scope are not allowed to pass as of the car classrooms, should be extradited until March 31/2/2019. In another article, the selection of members of the Supreme Election Board in 2020, in 2022, in 2023, in order to benefit from the knowledge and experience of the current members, which ensures the management of the elections in order to ensure that the mandates of the current members and vice presidents will be extended for another year. In another article, the Law No. 7143 allows the debt holders to pay their debts, who have not paid for their debts but have lost the right to benefit by not paying them. In another article, it is also provided that the immovable property, which is located in the area of the Bosphorus presum, defined in Boğaziçi Law No. 2960, will also benefit from registering as part of the zoning peace. And again, as part of the article (15) of Article One of the First Amendment to the establishment of the Metropolitan Municipality and the 27 Districts of Number 1460, the period of implementation of the Law and Law Laws shall be extended from six years to eight years, as part of the article 15) as part of the article 15), as part of the rule of the law, the tax, the amount of tax, the amount of tuition and participation of property tax and the amount of property tax to which must be taken under the Law of the Law and the law shall not exceed the 25 per cent of the minimum price for drinking and use of water in these places; and we also shall remove the amount of the amount of tax, the amount of property tax, allowance, allowance and access to the amount of property tax, and the amount of property tax, which must be imposed by the law, by the law, and the law shall be extended by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, the law, the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, by the law, Also, in the proposal, the quality of co-operative units under Law 6362 will indicate that the relevant substance will be created by a more explicit application field for cooperative central units; in the determination of anonymous partnerships, these cooperatives, cooperative troops and cooperative central units will be left out of the scope of the public benefit for the use of capital market legislation in expressing the control they have over these partnerships, and for the lack of public benefit of low-sale partnerships. In addition, the law proposal allows accession banks to be exempted from the measures included in the fourth joke, with the second sentence of Article 61 of Law 6362, which makes it virtually impossible for them to carry out the additional capital and contribution-capital rent certificate exports. In addition to the proposal with a motion from the Plan and Budget Commission, it is required that all law enforcement personnel who have entered the proposal as the 1st Article and started the proposal and to be part of Police Care and Help for all police personnel who have begun their duties in the Security Directorate since they entered into force after the second joke of the 3201 Security Service Law, which has been submitted to the General Assembly. In fact, it is part of the main Law Proposal (2/1369), which has previously been adopted in our Plan and Budget Commission, but has not yet been on the agenda of the General Assembly. With this law passed, he will be removed from the proposal. Again, in our proposal for the law, the agricultural chambers of 664 and the Agricultural Chambers Act (Agricultural Chambers), the third article of the Law (Agricultural Rooms) shall be changed into one-third of the law and reduced to one-percenter of the sub-responsibility limit, with a change in the law related to identifying small farmers whose land is less than 2 per cent of the minimum wage. That's how I sum up the law clauses in the proposal. The regulations in the proposal of the law, as I have just said at the outset, are a virtue to meet the demands and needs of our citizens. In the Turkish Grand National Assembly Plan and Budget Commission, we agreed and submitted it to the General Assembly's approval. Therefore, the law states that I will vote for the adoption of the proposal, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0197par0139	Friends, negotiations are complete on all of them.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0140	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0197par0141	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, what Mr. Bilgen is referring to just now is a subject that leads to new pessimisms and concerns from our view of Turkey's future. So the High Council of Radio and Television meets today as to whether the President's oranges are oranges or tangerines? Let's see, if there's a peaceful call now, if there's a riot, if there's a protest, no one will be allowed, no one will be allowed to go out. FOX TV has been sentenced to stop three programmes and three percent of the monthly advertising revenues. In the same way, Metin Akpınar, Mujdat Gezen has been debated in public enough, and the fact is, in public, there's an average consensus that no one has ever done a coup d'état.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0199par0148	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0149	...the public TV can also be sentenced to five per cent of the monthly advertising revenues and five times the end of the program. Now, what is it about following the president's orders to make such a rash decision by RTÜK (RTÜK) who has not decided on the cases, which have been reported a year before so much of the RTÜK (RTÜK)? Now, I'd like to invite members of the RTÜK to come to court, and I'd like to invite them to work ethic. They were elected by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, they are no one's custodian, they shouldn't be. He could sue me for it. In fact, RTÜK can make a decision like this. No TV will show the talks of Engin Altay. He can say or say, God damn them if they don't, God damn them! [[Applause from CHP rows]] This is unacceptable, Mr. President; this is not a banana republic, nor is it here to pretend to play democracy.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0200par0154	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0155	Because of the polymics made by our Deputy President, Free Special, the Minister of National Defence, the group is still collecting yesterday, saying there will be compensation and punishment. A president will say these words, and friends here will say there's a good democracy in Turkey. Are you guys mocking our minds?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0201par0156	Why? He's saying it, he's doing the review; what else? There's democracy.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0157	There's no world like this. This is Parliament, we'll talk. Erdogan will not be able or will not be able to silence the Free Special. [[A round of applause from CHP, HDP, and GOOD PARTY, do not shout from the AK PARTY.]] I'm yelling, what's it to you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0201par0160	No insults, no insults. We'll talk without insults.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0202par0161	You won't insult me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0198par0162	I'm gonna ask you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0201par0163	Criticizing is one thing, insulting is another.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0203par0164	Complete.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0204par0165	You won't insult me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0205par0166	There's insults, there's constant insults, but he's always insulting me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0206par0167	He'll speak clean language here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0207par0168	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0208par0169	It's a polemic that he entered with the Secretary of National Defense, which, in front of all the public opinion, could have been a very violent word. It's wrong for the Secretary of National Defense to go into the polemic once with a congressman. Mr. Special has not insulted you, he has spoken the truth, and your comrades have died without giving you their due. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He lied? However, if it is thought that Turkey will be silenced by such punishments, broadcast pauses, by filing a suit against Free Private for $500,000, then we will not be offended if this is the way the opposition will be silenced, I promise you. Whatever the cost, we'll continue to share what's going on in Turkey with the nation, to oppose injustices, to call the curve crooked. I'll also mention my views on this issue again when I made a promise on the matter, but I spoke here yesterday, and I gave examples of the tolerance of Süleyman Demirel. I gave examples of how the past prime ministers had approached these issues in the past. Erdogan would get away from this nightmare. No one in Turkey intends to overthrow him in illegal ways, but if Erdogan were truly to fall down in Turkey, democracy would fall.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0209par0174	How do you know? Didn't we live here?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0208par0175	Democracy is the great guarantee of Erdogan. I remind Erdogan of that once again.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0209par0176	You're talking nonsense, it's empty. You've got to be kidding me!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0208par0177	Yes, there are no CHP people to fear Erdogan with compensation, closure, fines. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Shame on you! Shame on you! What kind of punishment is this? He says, let's go to the street peacefully.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0210par0180	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0182	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, Mr. Altay has spoken very loudly, but I'd like to answer calmly. Now, he's using the word "disruption." Since when do we name law enforcement sanctions after decomposition?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0212par0184	It's not a legal decision.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0213par0185	Don't collapse, don't collapse.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0186	It's a legal decision. If you have any objections, you'll look at them, but as a result, they're all legally sanctioned by RTÜK...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0213par0187	As a result, don't collapse.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0188	RTÜK has applied the sanctions that the law allows it; one. Second: Why is it that only rights are something that belongs to the opposition? You'll deliver a truck, you'll insult the minister, you'll say a lot of things, but when the minister gets to a legal defense of his rights, you'll consider it a crime. I condemn it. Of course, every human being, whether he's a minister or a president, whether he's an MP or anyone else, decides to do what he's done to himself. Whether he's uncomfortable with it or not, let him decide for himself whether he wants to go to law on it or not.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0214par0191	Could it be that the judgment isn't independent?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0192	You're insulting the judiciary in Turkey. If the judges of your own opinion decide, it's good, but otherwise, if you don't like it, you hit them on the floor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0215par0193	Oh, that's what the President does.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0214par0194	Judgement takes place in an hour, an hour after it's over.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0195	We put our faith in the law on our behalf. Oh, democracy needs both opposition and power, each and every one of us guarantees it. I don't think anyone should be afraid, and I don't think anyone who's afraid of politics in this country should be in this House. And we're not afraid of anything. These people never give bonuses to those who are afraid.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0216par0197	I'm scared, I swear.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0211par0198	But if you're talking about fear, I think you should turn around and look inside yourself; you're afraid of running the right guys because you're afraid of yourselves, you're afraid of making them talk. First look inside yourself while you lecture us. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0217par0201	Mr. Altay, will you speak?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0218par0203	You're starting to fear our candidates too soon, so let's just get on with who we're running for.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0219par0204	We're not afraid of anyone.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0220par0205	You interfere with every word we say, interfere with every word we say.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0218par0206	He's the one you didn't get involved with, and you should get involved with him.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0220par0207	You're interfering with everything; the guilt we've given him, the error we've gone to court, the sin we've said, all of it, all of it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0218par0208	Let him decide who the Republican People's Party's candidates will be, and let this job be complete. It's a shame. It's a shame. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] Two, I'm wondering, Mr. Free Special...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0221par0211	You can't speak at CHP, you're yelling at the council, let go!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0222par0212	Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0218par0213	What do you say, brother?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0223par0214	Mr. Altay, when you spoke of Mr. President, you mentioned him by his first name.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0218par0215	I meant it, I meant it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0224par0216	Shame on you, shame on you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0223par0217	But here...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0224par0218	It doesn't suit me. It's a shame.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0225par0219	Is that a crime?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0223par0220	Yes, there are provisions concerning the address according to the Civil Code concerning the use of a clean language and the address to lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0225par0222	What's that got to do with anything? I said Erdoğan, what's wrong with that? What shall I say, my state, my lord, what shall I say? Erdoğan is called Erdogan. What's the word?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0223par0224	No, you didn't say Erdoğan.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0226par0225	Shame on you for your age! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0225par0226	What did I say?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0223par0227	You used his first name.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0225par0228	I didn't, no. I didn't say Recep, I said correct, I said Erdoğan.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0227par0229	He's talking in the street. Don't talk in the street here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0225par0230	President, I don't think you're showing a conditional reflex, I wouldn't say Recep.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0228par0231	No.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0227par0232	You said "Tayip", we heard you, brother.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0229par0233	You said, "Tayyip", "Tayyip."
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0230par0234	Sir, Erdogan, I say Erdoğan, I don't say your husband. Do you mind? Do you mind? If I don't say "Mr." Will I get a new compensation, will I get a criminal trial?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0231par0235	We don't decide.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0232par0236	Take it back.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0233par0237	We call him Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0234par0238	I made a promise to ask: One, I am very pleased that the Republican People's Party candidates have disturbed the AK PARTY. Two, Mr. Rich said, "He has testified." He said, "He has condemned."
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0235par0240	He did, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0234par0241	Mr. Special said that he insulted the Minister of National Defence.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0235par0242	Yes, he did.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0234par0243	I wonder what word he said or insulted, Mr. President. I mean, but now I'm intimidated, and I'm really intimidated by the will of Erdogan to identify the CHP's candidates. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0247	Not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0237par0248	Yeah, why are you so uncomfortable with the court issue? Mr. Altay, he's suing the court.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0238par0249	We're not uncomfortable, we're not afraid of the court, but the court isn't.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0239par0251	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0253	Now, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0240par0254	Where is the court in Turkey?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0255	He's the courts of your time, the courts of your time. Mr. President, my dear friends, if I may. I'm a lawyer, I've been in court for 20 years, I'm coming. We're talking about a country where a woman with a headscarf can't enter my room. Where did we come from?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0241par0258	They're back in their headscarf again.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0259	After that, you go back to courts like this, courts like this. It's one thing to object to the decisions made by the courts, it's another to say that there is a trial in Turkey. Law is always a mechanism shaped by objections. Dear friends, if you'll excuse me, I remember very clearly the speech of Mr. Free Special. Of all the things he said, the most important thing is to devalue the ministers as a whole: they were appointed, they were appointed... I think that's a controversial issue.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0242par0262	Is that a lie or a lie?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0263	Then no commander's decision is valid. The decisions made on the basis of the Constitution...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0243par0265	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0266	We can start here, get the whole text out if we have to, and we can talk about it. My friends who were here that evening will remember that Mr. Spectacular's attitude, his style, was deeply insulting. Let me put it this way: we don't want to identify anyone's candidate. As a result, we're on the side of a fair race. We've won every race we've ever raced. I am also a man who knows Istanbul very well; bring whomever you bring, we will win by working with the will of God. But when you make decisions, there is fear in your thinking mechanisms, and we don't govern our lives with fear, we do politics with courage, not fear, and I advise you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0244par0269	We're scared. I'm scared.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0270	I guess since you're polemic with me...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0236par0271	You're telling me, you're not afraid. Why are you accusing us of fear? I find it strange. If you're not afraid, don't be afraid.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0246par0273	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0275	Guys, I'm standing. He accused me of cowardice. Now, we know fear, we know fear. I've run out of feathers. I don't need to be afraid of the people, I don't need to be afraid of the streets.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0247par0277	Not at all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0248par0278	We haven't been scared in 16 years, so why should we be scared from now on?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0279	Turkey does not need to be afraid of speaking. If Erdogan is going to be afraid, let him be afraid of Turkey. People are going to shut up now. We're not afraid of anything.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0248par0281	We're not scared either.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0282	We're telling you that you can't scare us by investigating 63 MPs for the caricature of a Gryllian magazine that's been acquitted of compensation for $500,000, and we're not afraid of that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0249par0283	What's that got to do with us? Judgement...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0250par0284	We're not scared either.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0285	There is one fear in Turkey; yes, there are 3,000 people on the street, 3,000 people who don't set foot without the police.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0251par0287	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0252par0288	Mr. Engin, I told you yesterday, there aren't 3,000 people. Where are you making this up?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0289	A thousand police officers came to the parliament with five helicopters. Erdogan was afraid and afraid.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0253par0291	Lies, lies!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0254par0292	And you will talk about why, why.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0293	And we say don't be afraid, don't be afraid! He doesn't have to be afraid, he doesn't fear democracy, he doesn't avoid criticism.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0255par0294	He's not afraid of the tank, he's not afraid!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0295	Yes, I told him to say one of the insults that Free Private said, and he found this: we're devalued the ministers...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0256par0296	It's a coup d'état, a coup!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0245par0297	That's the minister's problem. In the eyes of society, let them become more valuable in our eyes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0256par0298	You don't have to sound like a coup d'état.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0257par0299	Mr. Engin, I told you yesterday, what makes you say 3,000? You agreed yesterday.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0258par0300	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0259par0301	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0257par0302	Does it look good on you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0260par0303	And we haven't been scared in 16 years, so why should we be?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0259par0304	Guys, let's end this discussion, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0261par0306	Mr. President, I'll only say one thing:
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0262par0308	You're the least to talk about, at least!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0259par0309	Friends... friends...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0262par0310	We know what you're doing. You're the least to talk about, at least, at least; guilty, guilty! You made this country this way, you, you, you, you, you, you!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0263par0311	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0262par0312	You ruined it!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0264par0313	Folks, this is the Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0263par0314	Mr. President, I'll tell you one thing: our President fears only God, and that's it; it's over.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0265par0316	Yeah, well, I'm a psychiatrist, so fear is human.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0264par0317	Dear friends, we're going to do 20 minutes of QA now.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0265par0318	Everyone is afraid, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0264par0319	What is it, Mr. Bachelor?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0265par0320	Fear is a human being, everyone is afraid. I'm afraid of you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0266par0321	We haven't been afraid of citizens in 17 years, and now we're afraid?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0265par0322	The Home Secretary yells at me, the man with 300,000, 400,000 security guards says, "I'm good.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0267par0323	Mr. Bachelor, there is no promise made to you here at this time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0266par0324	Engin demagogues.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0267par0325	Ten minutes is a question, ten minutes is an answer. I'm starting. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0268par0328	I'm afraid of your minister, of you; I'm afraid of you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0269par0329	The more you lose, the more you scream.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0267par0331	Guys, don't talk, don't shout, please! Mr. Excessive, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0270par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. December 27th is the 97th anniversary of the deliverance of the enemy's invasion. One spark of the struggle for salvation fired in Anatolia seven years ago fell to Tarsus, our heroic advent of victory over their struggle for salvation, and on December 27, 1921, he kicked the occupation forces out of Tarsus. I celebrate the 97th anniversary of the liberation of the ancient city of Tarsus from enemy occupation, and I remember the martyrs and veterans and all martyrs and veterans who made this land our homes, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. My hometown of the town where I was born and raised has been a shining star in the Çukurova region for 16 years, with investments in education and health, tourism without transportation, and as a social, cultural, economic and industrial centre, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0271par0339	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0272par0340	Thank you, Mr. President. There was a famous horse named Bucephalos, which was given to Alexander the Great, this vicious horse, who would not allow anyone to ride on it. Alexander sought out the cause of the horse's temper and soon found it. The horse was terrified of its own shadow; the animal leaped, the shadow leaped, and the fear never stopped. Then Alexander turned his face toward the sun. The animal behind its shadow has stopped being moody. People's will is like the sun. If we turn to the will of our nation, the state horse will walk the course without fail, and the shadows that think they're nothing will have no effect on them.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0271par0343	Friends, I've started a QA, I'm not making any promises based on 60. Mr. Sun...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0273par0345	Thank you, Mr. President. For the sake of a crescent, Lord, neither the sun goes down. / O, fallen soldier for this land, / if he kissed that pure forehead by coming down from heaven, he would be worthy of it. With his verses, who would not sacrifice our country's future and future struggle for the sake of this land? / Shoheda will burst, if you squeeze the ground. / Let him take his soul, his soul, his soul, his soul, and all that I have, and let him not take me from my one country in the world; and let him write no more of his praises, and let him write no more of his praises to this nation. I give him mercy and thanks on the anniversary of the anniversary of the eternal revelation of our beloved poet. On the other hand, I'm asking our Commission, this tax is due to restructuring...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0274par0348	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0275par0349	(Tekirdağ) Listen to the farmers' voice and wipe out their interest debts immediately, and grab hold of the manufacturer's hand. In 2016, the AKP government wiped out Genghis Construction's $422m tax debt. Again, construction of the Diyarbakır-Mardin railway was given to Genghis Construction, which bid high instead of the lowest bidder. The minister called it an off-price factor. I'm wondering if our farmer isn't worth as much as Genghis Construction. Look, our farmer's crying for blood. Thousands of our farmers are crawling through the gates of execution this year. The high rise in the price of food, fertilizer, gasoline, dollars has bent our farmer's back. He couldn't feed himself with what he was producing. We, the Republican People's Party, have proposed a law on this matter. The interest on all agricultural loans that have expired from agricultural bank and agricultural loan co-ops must be expunged. The principal debt must be divided into five years and paid in five equivalent installments each year in October. It would save us from keeping our farmer in production and making us dependent on the outside of food. I think that all groups should hold onto this bill, and I pay respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0276par0353	Mr. Sarıaslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0277par0354	I'm asking the Minister of Industry and Technology. One: the Nevşehir Organised Industrial Region has been promised for years, but natural gas has not been brought in. The lack of natural gas leads the existing industrialist to go to other cities, just as new industrial investors prevent them from coming. When will natural gas arrive in the organized industrial zone? Two: The Nevşehir Organised Industrial Region has been told that money will be collected from hundreds of our industrialists for lack of money and will be built into a new organised industrial area, but no initiative has been made in the past years. Would your Ministry be interested in sending in an investigator to examine the matter? Three: When do you plan to build a new organised industrial zone, considering the situation of the inadequate organised industrial region? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0278par0359	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0279par0360	I'm asking the vice president. One: What is the reason that FOX TV was given a three-day suspension and nearly a million fines as a result of a complaint filed by the deputy president about Fox TV? You want to shut up TVs telling the truth and the truth with such high punishments? Two: Again, what is the reason for the fine of 80,000 Turkish liras on Public TV and the five-time suspension punishment for People's Arenasa? Why do you want to silence and turn off TVs that speak truth and truth? Three: The President says that our country has freedom of ideas and ideas. Isn't the punishments and the decision to stop broadcasting, the idea and thought, and sharing with the public no longer exist? Four: What legal reason do the sentences and the decision to stop the broadcast are based on? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0280par0365	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0281par0366	Mr. President, thank you. Sir, I submit my questions to the President of the Commission, thanks to you. What arrangements do we discuss to facilitate our citizen's life, solve problems? Is there any way in which those who interrupt the law proposal for restructuring can benefit from this practice without paying for a late rise? On what dates do the regulations for the removal of administrative fines stemming from the transitions of class awareness of vehicles passing through the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th include Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0282par0371	Mr. Unsal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0283par0372	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I'm asking the Ministry of Health authorities that the shortage of appointment in every field in our country has also affected our anesthesiologists and technicians. I'd like to point out that the appointment of the anesthesiologists and technicians who are among the key staff of the health system and who are needed to be fully operational in health care institutions. Despite the growing number of graduates each year, the number of victims has exceeded 60,000. Despite high scores from the KPSS, our anesthesiologists and technicians, who have failed to do their job and face unemployment, face major problems. Will you be able to resolve this problem with the appointment of an anesthesiologist and technicians, one of the important staff of the health field, under the House roof as soon as possible? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0282par0374	"Dear Nameful..."
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0284par0375	I'm asking the Ministry of Agriculture: there's a very small-sized slaughterhouse in the military province, cattle manufacturers and butcher shop are in trouble. This slaughterhouse was planned to rebuild more than 50 miles [75 km] from the headquarters of the Army, which corresponds to 200 kilometers [200 km] for the districts of Akkuş and Mesudiye. At this distance, you have to load the animals into trucks and bring the same meat back again after they've been butchered. This is a health hazard, as it increases the cost. There's been a 50% increase in cutbacks on top of all these problems. The manufacturer is looking for a slaughterhouse outside the province, and has cut all the way to Amasya. That's why illegal and unhealthy meat is even available. What's true is that there are three well-equipped slaughterhouses in the capital city, in the Ünye and Fatsa locations, and they're going to be built again in the designated centers above, and they're going to be cut down to a reasonable level. What are you going to do about it?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0282par0376	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0285par0377	Thank you, Mr. President. December 27, 1921, the salvation of Tarsus. The battle against the French by Khadija Ana and Molla Kerim. The city of religion, languages and civilizations intersected, the city of Danyal anti-hissemin, and the city of Ashrab and Saint Paul, the city of peace, love, and brotherhood is the largest district of Turkey, greater than 55 provinces of Turkey. I'm celebrating the day of our salvation. I wish mercy to our heroes who made this land our homeland. And my call to Mr. President. I demand that the Commission deliver this question to our President. Those who want to go on a pilgrimage have been in the lottery for about ten years, but there are people who haven't had a pilgrimage in ten years. Are we going on a pilgrimage after we're dead? Let us find a solution. They call it. Regarding this, I demand that our President come up with a solution, and I offer respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0286par0380	Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0287par0381	Those who practice professions such as lawyers, freelance accountants, financial advisors, doctors, architects, engineerings serve as bridges between public institutions and institutions and citizens. The VAT rate is 18%, such as the VAT, which is applied to luxury consumer products. The height of VAT rates encourages and promotes non-registered operations. Unregisteredness causes unfair competition among economic actors, but also significantly reduces taxes distributed over income. In particular, VATs from professions such as law enforcement, counseling, counseling should be reduced from 18 to 8 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0286par0382	Thank you. Dear Violet...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0288par0384	Thank you, Mr. President. When I wasn't on the General Assembly last week, Mr. Sarıaslan Nevşehir Koran expressed the problems of the Kozaklı beet makers. You can appreciate that every privatisation, there are little problems with the new system change, and we, as Nevşehir AK PARTY lawmakers, have not left our farmer alone for two months, and by the direction of our Minister of Agriculture, the problem that Mr. Sarıaslan said is now resolved. He just voiced another issue with the OSB. By the direction of our Minister of Energy, the Nevşehir OSB.'s natural gas problem will hopefully be resolved, and hopefully we'll try to resolve it before the elections.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0289par0388	Yes, for the answer, Mr. Commissioner, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0290par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I'd like to make some statements regarding the matter, starting with the questions asked by Mr. Special. Yes, when we look at the whole proposal, it's possible to say that there are important arrangements for different segments of our society. When we look at Article 1 of these, this is the substance related to the Police Ark. First of all, there have been some claims about the breach of the Constitution, which does not reflect the truth. Because there are also polls similar to the structure of POLSAN. What? There's room, there's first. There was an application made to the Constitutional Court of Afyonkarahisar concerning this mandatory membership. On January 3, 2018 and the Constitutional Court's Court of Appeal of November 29, 2017, published in the Official Gazette 30290 on January 3, 2018 and the Constitutional Court of Appeals on November 29, 2017, has been ruled that it is in accordance with the law and that it is not contrary to the Constitution. In this framework, there is no way to make a claim at the point of violation of the Constitutional Court when we look at this decision in the POLSAN, which has a similar structure. What's the point here? This Police Care and Help Ark, established on providing social and economic assistance to members of the Security Directorate in charge of public order and security, is a stronger structure. As of right now, he's got about 45,000 members, and all our members are about 288,000. As we look at it up to today, we see that 2018 puts in total 601 million lira pension aid for 5,300 people by December. The pension allowance is around $120,000, but it is estimated that after this mandatory membership has taken place, pension bonuses will rise to $200,000 after the building is stronger. Other than that, we've seen 830 law enforcement officers receive around $24 million in disability and death benefits from the chest to date. We also see that the 920 million-dollar crate is aiding the 66,000 law enforcement officers. Other than that, we also see that there is $4,800,000 in aid to the relatives of the martyrs, their families, and when we look at it this way, it's really important to strengthen the social rights of our law enforcement members, the retirement processes. When we look at the OYAK side, such as the death of a spouse in OYAK, they can continue their membership in OYAK if they desire it. So we're looking at the 2nd article, and it's really important, and here's something that concerns our farmers, our villagers. We reduce membership fees in agricultural rooms from 2 per cent to 1 per cent to 1 per cent for the support of our small farmers, whose land is scarce. This was applied at up to 60 acres -- 2 percent of the minimum wage -- and then after 60 acres, it was plus $1. And that, unfortunately, when you look at it in terms of big farmers, when you look at it in terms of big landowners, it's an advantage, but when you look at it in terms of small landowners, it's a serious disadvantage. That's why we're dropping this bill to 1 percent, which our farmer, our peasant, has paid over an acre. And again, one of the things that really mattered was that, you know, there was a huge increase in traffic tickets by the changes we made in October in Law 7148 and the Land Road Law. In 2019, an arrangement is being made to ensure that there is no increase in 2019 so as not to confront our citizens with a further increase in resumption. When we look at the 4th article again, we bring to life an arrangement about the zoning peace that we had previously made and about Sarıyer, which would allow our citizens to record their structures by protecting the Bosphorus and the coastline, in line with the arrangement we had made for the European Side. On the 5th article, we are making a provision for the pardon of punishments made from the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15th and Sultan Mehmet Bridge on different classrooms, which are not allowed to use these bridges. As we look up to this day, we see about 19 million, 922,000 liras being collected. We're making a pardoning arrangement for 19 million, 922 thousand liras that were collected to be paid back to the citizens by 29 March 2019, and to eliminate the fines imposed on the other 310 thousand plates. This is important in the sense that all of these vehicles have DGS, or HGS, but they are not allowed to use this bridge. They're using this bridge, and we forgive all the penalties for these transitions until November 2016, when the matter is in effect. The most important part of this is that let's say that in January it was cut in 2017, but there were no necessary notifications. The person doesn't know that it's forbidden to cross that bridge as long as it's an absorption. There are regressions, high sentences, and a painting that victimises our citizens comes from the UKOME decision. And with this arrangement for him, we're gonna get rid of these fines. After that, the Ministry of Transport will re-organise the arrangements for these transitions -- by UKOME. Gene, when we looked at what else was important, we had been converted into villages and villages, as you know, with Article 6360, and in regard to it, we had extended taxes, such as water, property taxes, garbage taxes, for about five years. Now, at the point that they are not paid by 31/12/2022, we are making an arrangement to comfort our citizens who live there. In the same way, there were some exemptions that we brought in to include our tradesman who kept the books in simple fashion. In the same way, we are implementing an arrangement that will allow these exemptions to continue. There are things that appeal to different parts of society. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0291par0401	Thank you. So the negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... will be passed on to the articles. Now, let's begin the interviews of section one. The first part covers the 1st to 6th article. Those who want to speak on chapter one: On behalf of the groups, Mersin MP Behic Çelik, Kayseri MP Mustafa Baki Ersoy on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Gökan Zeybek on behalf of the individuals, İzmir MP Murat Çepni. Now, first of all, Mersin MP Behic Çelik will speak on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0292par0411	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group over the first chapter of Law Proposal 38. I salute your high council. In addition to the 3201 Law on Police Services, the 1st amendment of this proposal envisions permanent partnership of officers who do not share the Police Care and Help Chest. The 2nd article envisions the change of 2 per cent of the Law on Agriculture Rooms and Agriculture Rooms to 1 per cent of the 2 per cent of the Law on Agriculture. The third article adds a temporary clause 2 and brings an arrangement to the Highway Traffic Law. According to this, the first clause of Article 3 of Article 3 of the sentence against the verbs of this Law does not apply in 2019. Article 4 of the 4th article contains a provision for the release of amnesty to the Bosporus coastline and presumption area, defined in Boğaziçi Law No. 2960. The 5th article adds a temporary clause for the Ministry of the General Directorate of Highway 6001 to the Law and thus regulates the removal of the fines related to crossing the bridges -- which were mentioned earlier -- and the extradition of the collections. The 6th article corrects the verdict in the temporary article of Law 6360, which is 31/12/2022. Thus, the first part of the proposed law can be summed up in the form of six articles. Dear friends, there are rules of law enforcement, especially in terms of constitutional law. When we take this text and take it to the bench of any law school in the 38th row, they say it can't happen when we take it to the constitutional law stand or to the administrative law bench. This arrangement is all palatial, disrupting the Turkish legal system, dissolving and dissolving the issues that have been faced with a day-to-day solution, but also ruining the law. It's not one, it's not two, it's not five, it's ten, it's a disgrace to Turkish constitutional law and administrative law. Many orators have also expressed it. Here you passed Law 6360 in 2012, which passed through Parliament. In violation of Article 127 of the Constitution, you have completely paralyzed Turkey's implementation between central administration and local governments, and you have eliminated the private administration of 30 counties while establishing urban municipalities in Turkey, and you have eliminated around 20,000 of the village's corporate personality and 51 districts. But in the Constitution, the province's private administrations, which are responsible for organizing and seeing the common needs of the province, are in 51 districts today, not 30 provinces. What does that mean? It shows that there is a corruption of governance in Turkey. After that, how do we close this gap? There are ideas about this and a new model of organisation under the name YICOB in 30 provinces to eliminate this gap. Central administration funds are being transferred to YIKOB, some investments, services and tenders are being made via YICOB. Now, what kind of system is that, guys? There is central administration in Turkey, the central administration has a rural organisation outside its central organisation; local governments have been designated as municipal private administrations, municipalities and villages. So after our traditional management model, a model that's been in place since 1864, we're dealing with disintegration. We do so with Law 6360, which was issued in 2012. What happens when we lift the villages with this law? And when thou liftest up the villages, the middle spoils of the village are gone, and the pastures and the pastures are gone. This whole place is getting ready to invade. The village administration, the chiefs, they're all being turned into neighborhoods. Towns are being lifted, towns are now in Turkey, which have been converted into 10,000 populations, 20,000 populations. So with this law, we can clearly see that there's been a major impact on the municipal system. Mr. President, good lawmakers, Turkey does not deserve an arrangement in the form of Law Proposal Number 38, such as this. By making such arrangements, it is not possible for us to move Turkey to a point where the outcome is taking place; it is not possible for us to further radicalize the state of law; it is not possible for us to radicalize our democracy. So what do we get out of this? The conclusion, unfortunately, is that we are increasingly moving towards a tribal state from the modern Turkish state, and since we have already moved to the one-man regime after the 16th April 2017 referendum, we will become a country ruled by the decision of a Parliament and a single man taking such palliative measures, which will be pushed under the foot of the judiciary, and the efficiency of the legislature will be broken, and Turkey will no longer be able to demonstrate its power and power. So that's what we're going through right now. What do we have to do for him? We have to redefine the general policy of the state. Depending on that, we have to improve local government policy. As we develop these policies, we must also remove the appropriate legal regulations, legal texts. It also makes sense that such a text was brought to the attention after Mr. Buli Yıldırım, the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, told the press about the bridge crossings. And I can't remind you that when traffic arrangements are being made, the Interior Ministry's Law, Law 3152, has already made the Ministry of Interior on traffic, but why do you go to the Plan and Budget Commission when these provisions are being discussed in the Turkish Parliament? In fact, isn't this supposed to go straight to the Internal Affairs Commission, to be taken? They don't exist. Besides, our people have big problems, and we want to draw attention to them, and they need to be resolved, and they need to be done about it. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0293par0426	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0292par0427	Today, you know, we're seeing a lot of problems in the agricultural sector, especially one that needs to be resolved. We don't get a day's notice so we don't get any complaints from our agricultural citizens. In particular, 60 percent of the lemon we consume in Turkey is produced in only one district, which is in Mersin Erdemli, but the price of lemons is unfortunately very low. They're supposed to be handled by the government, but they're able to bring such law proposals to the Supreme Assembly with a palliative measure. We can't possibly say that these are in harmony with the facts of our Turkey. Finally, with these feelings, I pay my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0294par0431	Yes, now on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Mustafa Baki Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0295par0435	Mr. President, I have made a commitment today to speak on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group in the first part of the First Section of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Highway 38, which we have begun to negotiate today. I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation who are watching us at the beginning of their screens. The proposed proposal contains important arrangements for the removal of some of our citizens' victims. Article 1 of the proposal was also mentioned in Article 2/1369 of the Charter and Budget Commission, which recently discussed in our Plan and Budget Commission (2/1369). It is an especially high-profile pension fund in the event of police officers participating in the Police Board of Police Services (Police Care and Help) for the saintly members of the police. In its current state, participation in this chest is optional. Under Article 18 of the Covenant, the partnership's dues amount to 5 per cent of the partners' gross salary or wages based on retirement, which can be increased to 10 per cent by the General Assembly's decision. 40 per cent of the net profit earned by the Police Care and Help Ark's activities and participation within a year is added to the sum of the sum of the funds of the polling partners. Partners are included in the reserve fund for pension, disability and death benefits, 10 per cent of net profits and 50 per cent as a fund of investment. On the other hand, there have been fluctuations in the number of staff members in the process. This has caused difficulties in the work of the Ark. As a result of recent disinfecting, the number of staff has dropped to 45,000, and there has been damage to the social rights of current members. POLSAN is clearly a vital function for members of law enforcement and their families, given that both the benefits of retirement and disability and death benefit. An arrangement made with the proposal is not especially provided with the current members of the Ark. These people will continue to be subject to whatever status you think they are when they become members again. However, it is intended to impose membership in the chest of those who have started working as members of the Police after the clause has become legal, and to establish a financially sustainable structure. Under Article 2 of the proposal, a reduction of the sub-responsibility limit, which is 2% of the minimum fee, was arranged to be changed to Article 20 of the Agricultural Chamber Act, 664 concerning the determination of agricultural chamber membership dues, to support small farmers whose land is scarce. Even if the upper limit of the fee is too high, the Union board has a wide capacity for discretion, there is an opportunity in practice to raise dues in the new period, keep them stable, even reduce them in need, but due to the lack of the minimum wage, this discretion cannot be used for small farmers, and this creates a situation against small farmers whose agricultural presence is less than 2 per cent of the amount of land. We support the arrangement in order to support small farmers whose land is scarce and to establish a lower amount of dues to be saved from this negativity. Again, as part of support for farmers, I would like to make a proposal to address the problem of the local farmers of the distinguished district of Kayseri, our constituency district, Bünyan. Bünyan is a county in which agriculture is at the forefront of economics. Unfortunately, four years in a row in this county, natural disasters have occurred, and our local farmer has been a victim. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry has announced that the debt of debtors can be postponed by 3.5 per cent of interest, but loans used by the Agriculture Loan Cooperative are covered by a high interest rate of up to 33 per cent. Some farmers were not included in the configuration on the grounds that they did not get agricultural insurance from the co-op. The Bünyan farmer's demand... that all farmers in agricultural areas that suffer from the natural disasters in order to repair their victims should be covered by a 3.5 per cent interest rate of their loans, and the recognition of the main loans will greatly benefit farmers in the region by 50 per cent, in order to be able to reproduce them so that the debt can be paid regularly. In Bünyan, our district, in the areas where agriculture is at the forefront of its economy, it is necessary to improve support for farmers, and we wish that necessary work be done in order to improve the material and spiritual loss of natural disasters. Dear lawmakers, the 3rd article of the proposal added temporary material to Highway 2918's Traffic Law. Article 2918 is envisioned to implement sentences for the verbs under Act 2918 without raising the rate of revaluement in 2019. As you know, absolute penalties for the violations of Highway 2918 have been increased in the previous year, in the beginning of each calendar year, by the provisions of the Tax Code for that year, by the determination and adjudication of the declaration. Traffic tickets must, of course, be deterrent. In this framework, a serious increase has been made in 24 different sentences by Law 7148, which has recently been issued by our Veteran Assembly. For example, an administrative fine imposed on mobile phone speakers for $108 has been raised to $235 TL. So I feel it's not right to go back to the increased sentence three months later, when the place has been increased by more than 100 per cent in the past October. Likewise, in 2020, these sentences will continue to be implemented by augmentation rate. Article 4 of the proposal aims to resolve a problem that has been accumulated for years. In this scope, the unmovable assets of the Bosporus Law No. 2960 are also required to benefit from a building registration document, particularly in the areas set in the area of the Bosporus predictorum, which is defined by the Bosporus Law No. 2960. Our only wish here as the National Movement Party is that there is no random abuse. It is a matter of utmost importance and precision that the coordinates organised under the zoning peace should be determined without compromising the protection of the Bosphorus coastline and the Bosphorus. I would also like to point out that the area between the coast road and the sea, which is closest to the Bosphorus, is not part of this arrangement, is also considered a sign of the arrangement to address the present problems. Article 5 of the proposal aims to resolve a problem stemming from a delay in notification. Some vehicles were banned from the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15 and from the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge to ease the traffic in Istanbul. The collection of administrative fines for passers-by-passers, which are forbidden to cross the bridges as of car classrooms, dates from 2 November 2016 to 1 January 2019. In addition, the rejection and extradition of our well-intentioned citizens until March 29, 2019, in the event that the fines collected on the basis of the appeals and the waiver of open cases have been filed against the interested ones until February 28, 2019. With this clause, I would like to say once again that as the National Movement Party, as promised in our election declaration, we will not withhold any support from the driver's shop, but we will always take care of our veteran brothers. An extension has been made to some exceptions given to villages whose legal personality has been removed as part of the Interim Article 15 of the Article 15 of the Act of the Law, under which changes have been made to the Constitutional Court of the Council of State and the Court of Law in 14 counties, known as the Metropolitan Law. In this scope, the property tax, which must be paid according to the Real Estate Tax Act, has been offered to extend the amount of wage for drinking and using water in these places until December 31, 2022. It is also extended until December 31, 2022, when the fee for drinking and using water in towns that have been transformed into one neighborhood by removing the corporate personality can not exceed 50 per cent of the current minimum rate. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs say that we support the proposal of the law as the National Movement Party, and I call upon the Lord God to bless our country and our nation, and salute our General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0296par0451	Thank you. Now on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Ali Kenanoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kenanoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0297par0455	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute the General Assembly. Today, I remind you of the 49th day of our Haqkari MP, Leyla Güven, who is on hunger strike, and the need to release Layla Güven, and to consider her request. Dear friends, on the other hand, I'd like to say once again that we condemn the sentences against Fox TV and Public TV. I'd like to say that my judgment on the media is going to get much deeper and that RTÜK is somehow involved. It's not something we're aiming for when there's a variety of arguments here -- whether it's on RTÜK or on law -- to be given old examples, so that in the past, they're said to be bad. So in the past, yes, there are many bad examples; many things can be said about the fact that he is not impartial in terms of judgment. However, it is not possible to defend today's situation by taking refuge in them. So bad practices in the past shouldn't make it the same thing that should continue today. We will criticize the evil of the past, and we will oppose the evil of the present. If our goal is right, law, and a democratic Turkey for justice, we need to present every argument to defend it. It's not the right thing to do because it's happening in the past. Congressmans, I have taken a pledge from our group on part one of the First Amendment to the Road Traffic Law and some Laws. Of course, our spokesman has also expressed that we are first critical of the logic of the bag law. So the lack of public discussion of a number of independent issues, not being handled by NGOs, not being handled by professional organisations, or being thrown into a bag by their peers, and being rushed to the commission, so we'd like to rephrase that this is not the right way to make a law. In this way, we feel the need to reiterate that there is no good in society for the sake of this law. These laws, which were brought immediately after the budget law talks, must, of course, be said to be an election preparation for us as well. Now, it's about item 1 of the proposal. It was stated that membership in the police box was not true; it was mentioned that it was contrary to the Constitution. The President of the Commission has given various examples of this earlier, but you have to say again: So examples of this do not indicate that this is in accordance with the law or the Constitution, which means that there is a problem with them, because there should be no such thing as the principle of necessity. Again, entry fees and dues for rooms are brought from 2% to 1%, but there is no change in the upper border. And it would be appropriate to have a change in that regard. On the other hand, Article 3 of the Highway Traffic Law... we see it as a law of choice. Mr. Bakili Yıldırım also gave the start of his candidacy in Istanbul, which is how you should read it. And after the good news of him, the bill came to our attention, and now it's likely to become law. So it's impossible to say that this is nothing more than an election start. On the other hand, the fourth article on zoning registration documents related to this Bosphorus makes sense that even the MHP spokesman, even the Alliance's partner, has expressed this routing warning from here. Yes, there is a serious concern about the runt, and everyone here carries that concern. That's one thing to say. Dear friends, there is one thing in Article 6 of this article: Of course, what is brought here is about the postponement of the Metropolitan Law to 2022. I'd like to point out another issue: There is a situation that has been particularly victimizing the removal of the village's corporate personality brought by this Metropolitan Law. The most important thing that makes a village independent is that it has the right to acquire property and save on local assets. In accordance with Law 6360 earlier brought in, an application was also launched to transfer these villages to the municipalities, to the treasure, or to a commission established there. Of course, it led to something like this, the most important problem of this was, for example, the Suryan churches and monasteries, for example, because in the villages, they belong to their corporate personalities, and after this law, for example, the church, the monastery, the cemetery, and the binding deeds in Mardinh, 110 of the properties, the non-moving properties, were transferred to the treasury in this way, where they were handed over to the President of Diyanet Works. Later, a number of feedbackal reactions in public were made about it, and 54 were returned to the relevant foundations, but not all of it has been corrected. It is necessary to state that the property of the Serbs is still in the treasury, or in the municipality, or in institutions that are not related to them, due to this law. In addition, another religious community that suffers from this is Alevi, because in the Alevi villages, the Cemevs are not in the institution or the foundation's possession, but mostly in the community's ownership, which is a common property of the village, the places of worship, and in the village of Alevi, where people are managing these decrees in accordance with the authenticity of their beliefs, where they perform their beliefs, their worship by their own means. In addition to the Metropolitan Law, the property of these cemevs has also been removed from its corporate personality, either to the municipality of the city, if it is based in the centre, or it has been transferred to the city municipality or to another institution with the commission here, and this is actually considered in public as a method of taking over the places of worship, because that's what its conclusion is. And that, of course, is an intervention in faith, so it is necessary to view it as an intervention in the originality of this belief and freedom of faith that the mosque that is led by the Alevi village there in its own religious framework should go into the adherment of the mayor of another faith, or that the assembly there should go into the pledge of the council. In this way, this law, in fact, had to be made up about this 6th article, which could have been put in this article, it wasn't put in there. I'd like to point out that this is where the real injury took place. There's also another issue in my constituency, in the third district of Istanbul, in Küçükçekmece. There was a harassment incident at Cadriye Moroglu High School, you know. A teacher molested the students at school, and there were complaints about it. We later learned with a new explanation that this case has been closed, and the teacher is currently serving in another school. I mean, that's not acceptable, guys. It is clear that he is a molester -- there is no discussion anymore -- that he is currently being assigned to another school by changing schools and continuing to teach students there. There's nothing acceptable about this, and there's nothing to condone. It's a teacher, and it's every day to deal with those students, the same students, with our children of the same age. Therefore, this is certainly not an acceptable situation, and this teacher must be terminated and subject to criminal action. I'd also like to point out today that the executives of the Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association and the voice of the Alevis, TV10 workers, have been held in Silivri Prison several times. Today in Silivri Prison, members of Pir Sultan Abdal Cultural Association and some Aleki institutions wanted to make a statement, but today this statement was not allowed. Because it was unfairly, unlawfully, to express that these people were being held here, to draw attention to it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0298par0471	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0297par0472	However, today in front of Silivri Prison, Alevi were not allowed to make a statement. Here from TV10, Veli Büşşahin, Veli Haydar Gülç, Kemal Demir, our friends are on trial and a legal scandal has been held in prison for a year. The indictment came in three or four times. So the indictment is being filed, the prosecutor gives it to the court, the judge returns it to the prosecutor, the prosecutor sends it back to the judge, the judge sends it back to the judge; the judge sends it back to the judge again; a superior court is looking at it, and he sends it back to the prosecutor because it's missing. There is still no trial -- a year passed -- and they have been held unfairly and unlawfully for over a year because of their inconsistencies and lack of evidence in the case. We demand that they be released as soon as possible. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0299par0476	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Gökan Zeybek. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0300par0480	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I'd like to start by saying that the silence campaign against FOX TV and People TV is a very serious attack against press freedom and democracy in Turkey. Mr. President, after crossing the bridge through the bridge -- the third drawbridge -- I have also brought up the agenda of the Plan and Budget Commission, the Plan and the Bayinishment, the Imar, Imar, Transport and Tourism Commission, on the day of the opening of the bridge in Istanbul from the day of the opening of the bridge. So I'd like to point out that I'm very happy that this is the way the arrangement is going. However, I would like to point out that the transition from bridges to bridges is a commercial activity, especially when small tonable vehicles are blocked from the second bridge, which means that the small tradesman, who will carry his load at a distance of 30 kilometers, 40 kilometers [30 km], has been brought to the point of carrying its load, due to the additional loads of cargo on cargo and transport, and that this arrangement has not solved the problems of the next process. Now, there's another arrangement about urban property and water prices related to villages and neighborhoods. Dear friends, it is true to extend the process regarding the exclusion of property taxes in the area of the village status, but even though its name is ίköy. My previous friends told me in Istanbul -- that large mansions worth millions of dollars, villas -- are free of taxes within the scope of the law, the continuation of municipal services and the payment of services in return. Therefore, it is not right to include villages 30 kilometers [30 km] into the city centre, 50 km [50 km], and some of the village status of Sarıyer and Beykoz, within the borders of the Istanbul Metropolitan City. Now, the law brings an arrangement to the Bosporus coast. There's a pamphlet distributed to our MPs, which has already been distributed in the Plan and Budget Commission, where thousands of coordinates have been delivered to us. Now, I'd really like to ask the lawmakers who have signed thousands of co-ordinate points, how our dear lawmakers, our friends who set up the law and prepared the bill through these coordinates. Of course -- we sat down -- and I want to show you here what this really means by going through these coordinates on a piece of paper. You are not shown at any point in the brochure, where the Bosphorus is covered, and where it is left out. The law says: "We left the insurgents out of bounds. " The Minister has an explanation for that. Friends, since when are first-class artifacts registered as cultural assets allowed to enter a zoning peace or zoning pardon? These are the cultural beings that the Ministry is already obliged to protect and protect directly, not only the owner of the deed on it, but the people who run this town, who rule Turkey, who should look at it as the light of the eye, and who have cultural assets, and how to approach them in such a form that it is clearly not very clear that they understand the law and cultural assets, the properties of the Bosphorus that need to be protected. Now, dear friends, in Bosphorus, of course, there's a predict area, there's a feedback area, there's an impact zone. Now, this bill does not solve the problem of our people living in the Bosphorus, my friends. In accordance with zoning pardon Act 2981, you will have to pay the price if you want to sit on both sides of the Bosphorus, the treasure, the municipality or the community, or the property issue of our citizens with a slum on university property to resolve the issue of property. This law, issued under the name "imar peace" is not the answer to anything but to scare the citizens, and they will cut off the electricity and water, and if you want to sit down, you will have to pay the price. The point here is clear. The Bosphorus is a special law, which is actually protected by Law 2960 and the Bosphorus. However, how is it that the illegal construction of the Bosphorus, which has not been under the control and authority of the district municipalities, has been raised so much by the city's Democratic Directorate of Bosporus, which he has protected and maintained for years, and we are now trying to legalise these illegal structures with zoning peace? The bottom line of the arrangement here is that there are definitely friends with our citizens who are built on public land in the area of the throat's appearance and impact, and there's also a list of universities involved, there are legal agreements, there are unanimous decisions made in the municipal councils. According to Law 2981, there is no other solution but to establish property on behalf of the citizens through street rail costs, which are used by our citizens from the city council to 400 square metres of land, as it has certainly passed through the municipal councils of the slums and right-owners of 1983 and prior to 1983. What will bring this zoning peace? Obviously, no one knows, so when a citizen who's applying for zoning peace gets the building registration document, in what way will this document bring him legal assurance? Look, he doesn't have the authority to plan in the areas of my vision. The Law No. 2960 on the region of vision, the rearview zones, is clearly clear... there are decisions made by the State of Emergency and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization that have cancelled all of the plans for urban transformation and development of these regions. The ability to plan at the Bosphorus is 1/5. One / one of the plans of the city's largest city municipality. It is located in the municipality of the municipality on the plans of 000. There's a debate here about the chosen and appointed. Dear friends, the authority to plan belongs to the chosen; the authority to plan belongs to parliaments chosen for the people. All the structures that the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism had done when the earthquake hit Turkey, all the buildings he had supervised, were destroyed, now we don't recognize the authority of the former Ministry of Public Works, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism to make plans, it's not democratic. You can't plan on Turkey's cities by sitting in Ankara, and you can't do it in Bosphorus, and you can't do it anywhere. We must also defend this as lawmakers who have the greatest advantage of being elected in parliaments elected by the people's votes. [[Applause from CHP rows]] See, Law 2981 is a zoning law and it has passed through the House. Now, look, we're discussing a law, a law in which the Bosphorus of Istanbul is in place, in a bag of laws. Another arrangement for the Bosphorus came in the past, and the bag was in the law again. Friends, there is the Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This Commission's main task is to discuss issues related to zoning, planning, transport issues. Here comes the land routes, the Plan and Budget Commission, the zoning issue, the Plan and Budget Commission. So you need to see some serious problems with the functioning of this Assembly, with the working systems and the functioning of these commissions, and you should never take away the authority to plan and ratify those elected by the vote of the people, the most fundamental institution of democracy, the parliaments. Dear friends, the Strait of Istanbul is the most important cultural presence of the world, not only of those living in Besikoz, but of those living in Istanbul, not of those living in Turkey. We are not to guard the Bosphorus, which is entrusted to us; but we must look after the trust of the generations after us. So there is no other solution, of course, in the 1940s, in the 1950s, in the 1950s, on the housing issue of those who had come to Sarıyer, Beykoz, who had made the slums, on the basis of the transfer and property issue, on the basis of the deed allocation documents -- I repeat -- there is no other solution but to establish the citizen's right to property through the price of street rails. I'd like to point that out from here. Now, I'd like to bring another matter to the knowledge of our House. Dear friends, the Sariyer City Council voted in 2015 to build the zoning plans for 13 neighborhoods of Sarıyer Province; the zoning reform plans were a stage for the establishment of property, and the authority for the municipal council to make these plans was made. However, a unanimous proposal passed by the City Council was returned by the Metropolitan Municipality.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0301par0495	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0300par0496	Tens of thousands of our citizens who lived in Bosphorus have filed a lawsuit. Courts have decided that zoning plans made in the municipality are in accordance with the law, and now the zoning plans are back in the Metropolitan City Council. And since Act 2960 has given absolute authority to the local and major city councils to plan, I would like to point out from here today that we are going to follow this process. The Bosphorus is not only an area where capital changes hands by rich people of every era; the Bosphorus is also a place where our citizens live in the slum; the Bosphorus, Besiktaş, Sarıyer, Beykoz, and Baseküdar; hundreds of thousands of poor and workers are protected by the FSM, just like Baltaliman, Reşitpaşa, just like Mesudiye, like Kirazlitepe, and when they are spoken and spoken of, they are protected by the Bosphorus. If you take the people of the straits, there will be nothing left, and I will complete my words. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0301par0499	Izmir MP Murat Çepni is now on behalf of him. Here you go, Mr. Chepni. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0302par0503	The President, the General Assembly, our dear people, I have made a promise of the 6th Amendment regarding cooperatives. However, we need to say a few words about both the budget process and the discussions that are being held throughout the day today. Now, we have a family elder, who said, "Don't make me do what he doesn't want to be very involved in." Now, really, the AKP lines are forcing us to do it. Now, one of the things we've heard the most about is that these people vote for us. Now, we call it theft, but these people vote for us. We call it kissimara, these people vote for us. They say, "We've been budgeting for 17 years." It's called war, it's called fucking HDP! It's called peace, it's called fucking HDP! The working class is dying. We say, "But we're growing, we're growing. It's trying. It's called geography, which has become uninhabitable. It's called growing. It's called hospital tourism, it's called natural tourism. Now, no matter what we say, the AKP has a spot line, but even if you look at the numbers that the YSK has explained, if you look at the election results, 50 percent of this society does not agree with the AKP's policies. Now, here we are, convincing the AKP, of course, not an officer. Now, for example, there are Black Sea MPs here, and there are Black Sea MPs in the AKP. So there's no way they can't see the Black Sea turning into a dumpster, turning it into a HES dumpster, wrecking the plateaus, attracting capital under the name of tourism. Therefore, there is a clear choice. That's why we're telling the AKP that it's the power of 1 percent. The AKP is the power of capital; the AKP is the power of rank. So it's more accurate to say that it's a Rant alliance, a Rant coalition, a war coalition. Therefore, there is a direct choice, regardless of one's intent. So there is no decision in favour of the working class. When I say there is no law in favour of the workers, the AKP is taking a stand for capital by making its choice for the resources it feeds. So the reason why the AKP is saying that we get votes is because they do not confirm AKP's policies; on the contrary, the AKP is allowing people to show death and consent to malaria. Democracy, change, they came with the speech of the European Union, they backed up our people, but as they became states, they turned against them; this is what happened, and today the AKP will become chaos without its own reality. If I go, the bombs will continue to explode. Without me, the mothers will continue to cry. So here's what we're doing: let's go to the polls with an election control model that we have in common -- it could be international, it could be national. Everyone can speak equally, everyone can do equal propaganda, everyone can evaluate the election process equally. Today, those who are not from the AKP have no right to speak, those who are not members of the AKP. We're talking about the press today, we're talking about artists, so don't you realize that? Of course you do. The politics that you're basically walking on are the politics of making enemies of those who aren't. So in these conditions, the masses have to choose over the politics of fear that you create. So if there's no democracy in a country... So when we're elected co-chairs, you're saying, "God damn it, HDP," you're saying, "terrorist collaborators." You're saying the same thing when we say the A.E.A.R. decisions. When we say hungry strikes, you say nothing but war again. We are feeding on war. When we say, "This budget is a war budget." That's exactly what we meant by that. Now, long live my padishah. You don't want to hear any more voices but your voices. But as HDP, we will continue to say that the king is naked as the revolutionaries, democrats, socialists of this country. Now, there's nothing in the budget of the AKP to benefit the people, and that's exactly what this cooperative thing is about. Cooperatives are the unity of the people to protect their own efforts against the merchant, against the capital. But today we are going to run this country like a company. In accordance with AKP President's statement, these institutions are being taken from the public initiative and are being tried to be run as an anonymous company. In fact, a small-scale production tool for the public, like the closure of the milk co-op in Tonya, like the firing of Tarish workers in Izmir. I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0303par0515	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0302par0516	From here, I salute the Tarish workers in Izmir. I declare once again that we will take care of their resistance. As a result, this power is a power that feeds on fear. Fear comes from cruelty. That's why you're so scared. That's why we're being attacked when we say "go away." That is why you fear the journey. Thus, the people will fight, fight, defend the truth against the lie, which will be held against this rule of persecution. We believe in it from the heart, we'll be in it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0520	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0305par0521	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0524	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've just heard the preacher, we'll fix what in a minute, but I'm returning everything to you in the shortest possible way; one. We live in a republic, not in a reign. We live in a democratic country. We are all living together in the elections of all international election observers, including the OSCE, where the world's most democratic elections and the highest turnout rates are held in public.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0306par0526	Yeah, even you don't believe that. Really, really boo!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0527	As a result, it is the power of justice and the people, not persecution.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0306par0528	I swear to God, even you don't believe it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0529	Justice, not oppression, is the power of development, not poverty.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0306par0531	You didn't leave the truth behind, you just created the obedient!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0532	That's how it's supposed to be known to everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0306par0534	You didn't leave any rights.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0304par0535	I'm packing it up, sir. I'm packing it up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0307par0536	Metin Akpınar couldn't make a joke like that!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0306par0537	I mean, I really didn't want to laugh, I didn't want to laugh!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0308par0538	Here you go. Second minute...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0309par0540	There should be no need to rely on slander in this place, in which the people's will is expressed, in which the truth is made public, in an atmosphere, in a platform, in which the truth is made public, in which the truth is made known, in the way of truth, in the way of their ears, their minds, their hearts, their eyes, and those who have closed their eyes and closed it, in the face of the truth.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0310par0541	You're the one who closed your eyes, you're the one who blocked your ears! The entire Turkish community knows that very well.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0309par0542	Our nation considers these slanders in the chest and makes the most of them, distinguishing the truth from the lie, the service from the slander, and in each election, the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY, the AK PARTY.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0310par0544	Your reign won't last long now, don't worry!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0309par0545	It begs to be seen and known, my respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0311par0549	Now, on behalf of him, Düzce MP Ayşe Kşar. Here you go, Mr. Kestir. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0312par0553	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Law on Road Traffic and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. Before I speak, I celebrate the 99th anniversary of the arrival of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, 27 December. I also remember Mehmet Akif Ersoy, our author in the 82nd year of his death, with gratitude, gratitude and mercy on behalf of the great Turkish nation. Dear MPs, the AK PARTY is the party of the people. AK PARTY is the farmer's party. The AK PARTY is a party of women, young people, workers, tradesmen, children who live in every square mile of 744,000 square miles. AK PARTY is the party of everyone who feels that they belong to this country, this country. (AK PARTY) The AK PARTY is the party of hope, the party of democracy, the party of the future. AK PARTY is a public and service-oriented party. Under the demands and new needs of our citizens, it is our party's priorities that need to be arranged on various issues. In this framework, Mr. Mehmet Mush, our Deputy Group President, and 25 MPs, including my signature, includes regulations in the Traffic Law, Development Law, Capital Market Law, Tax Law, Higher Election Board Service Act, Agriculture Chamber, Security Service Law and other laws. The relevant proposal is intended to give up the collection of administrative fines given to car owners who pass through the Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge on July 15th, although it is forbidden to pass through car classrooms during the specified time period. It is also stated that the fines collected under these sentences should be extradited to the parties. When using midibuse bridges with 3350 accents, it is unable to use new bridges capable of 8+1 passengers with 3400 chords. A new UKOME decision on bridge crossings is also required after this arrangement over related penalties. The proposal also provides a new arrangement for those who have not been able to pay their debts regularly. An arrangement is envisioned to allow those who have lost their rights to pay their debts. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, as it is known, administrative fines are increased by the amount of redecorating and redecorating declared under the provisions of the Tax Usul Law, which are valid at the beginning of the calendar each year. The penalties for the verbs involved in the Highway Traffic Law were recently redacted, as you know. The proposal states that the tariff set in this arrangement should continue to be implemented in 2019 without raising the rate of revaluement. Congressmans, my city is a city of agriculture in Düzce. To support small farmers with land assets, the lower limit of the agricultural chamber's fee, which is 2 per cent of the minimum wage, has been reduced to 1 per cent. Dear lawmakers, the duration of the application period for drinking and using water in these places, with the exception period for taxes, tuition and participation, which must be paid under the municipal IRS Act, as well as the property tax that should be taxed in the villages whose legal personality has been removed, is again offered for six to eight years, not to exceed 25 per cent of the lowest tariff. However, it is also intended to extend the sentence to 31/12/2022 that the cost of drinking and using water in the cities that have been removed from its corporate personality and turned into a single neighborhood will not exceed 50 per cent of the current minimum rate. The provision for election times of members of the Supreme Election Board is still in this proposal, since it is not beneficial for the management of the elections and the use of the information and experience of the current members, which are highlighted in Article 79 of the Constitution. Members of parliament, as needs change, as new needs arise, it is part of Parliament's basic duties to make the legal arrangements needed to ensure community order. I'd like to thank all the MPs who've been involved in this arrangement's commission work. As I put an end to my words, the law wishes that our offer be a blessing, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0313par0566	Dear friends, conversation is complete on chapter one. Now, for 15 minutes, I'm going to do the QA -- questions first. Mr. Aygun, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0314par0569	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Interior's article, dated 6/1/2017, has been announced that an agreement between the Ministry of Interior and the General Directorate for Population and Citizenship and ASELSAN AŞ covering 2016-2018 will be signed in 76 districts -- which are not integrated into the Local Address Recording System -- including our Tekirdağ province. Postmarks of street, street and building outside doors will be installed by municipalities. When will this work be completed? Urgently, ALO 112, 155 and 110 important addresses have been difficult to intervene on the order of phone calls. We're waiting for the proper work to be done.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0313par0571	Mr. Aydın... no. Mr. Rock... no. Mr. Sun... no. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0315par0575	I'm asking the Ministry of Industry and Technology: 1) The economic model of your power is based on consumption, debt, import and construction. This increases our foreign trade deficits more and more. Importing intermediary goods also represents an important number in this open area. Do you plan to encourage any investment or other measures as the Ministry to cover our foreign trade deficit? 2) You argue that our economy has been exposed to external attacks. Foreign attacks don't exist today, they always do. If we have an economy that's affected by external attacks so quickly, isn't it because of your power? Why have you made the economy so vulnerable? 3) What measures do you intend to take to avoid this long-term crisis that affects input costs and production inflation as a ministry? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0316par0580	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0317par0581	Thank you, Mr. President. Einstein's science changed many things, but our thinking remained the same. This leads us to an unprecedented disaster. Man is in need of the truth. It's the mind and the mind that makes man different and great in the universe. Like Descartes, Pascal said that people who don't think can't be human. All negativity arises from misinterpretation of the purpose of life, while love flourishes. One must know that the material things that are necessary in life are not life itself. When you know the purpose of life, you get stronger, with that power, you don't look at things for your own benefit anymore, you're on the side of goodness, you're on the side of virtue, you're on the balance. He is now free of pride and vanity, as Veysel the Lover says, a traveler on the planet Earth. He is a traveler of the path of humanity, peace, equality, justice, and brotherhood.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0316par0583	Mr. Self-Subject...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0318par0584	Thank you, Mr. President. I honor and cherish our poet Mehmet Akif Ersoy on the anniversary of his death. Electricity blackouts in Şanlıurfa are affecting our people's daily lives and causing great tribulations. This persecution in all the districts and neighborhoods of Şanlıurfa is required to end immediately. Every time this issue comes up, the matter of illegal electricity is dismissed as an excuse. If it's the institution's job to detect illegal electricity, why are our citizens being punished for not using it? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0319par0588	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0320par0589	Thank you, dear President. Mr. Chairman of Plans and Budget Commission said: "This mandatory dues regarding the police, sir, when they retire, they're paid with a great deal of moisture, like OYAK. There are two options in the OYAK. One: you can either get the money back with what it's worth or you can continue, and you can also get a pension. Is that possible here? Two: In OYAK, citizens are given very low loans. There is only as low a loan as the money he has invested, otherwise it is given in the form of a loan that the citizen receives from the market. How do you feel about that? Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0321par0594	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0322par0595	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're expanding the zoning pardon law with this bag of legislation, and you know it's December 26th. Mr. President, if Parliament agrees today, the President's approval will likely be published in the Official Gazette. I saw a commercial on TV today, and it says to ask for a pardon, the last application date is December 31st. So, once the law is in effect, it'll be one day for the application. I also asked Mr. Commissioner and Mehmet Mush, during the Commission. Friend, you've brought this bag, so you'll have to extend the application accordingly. I said, can you confirm this extension information for us? Mr. President and Mr. Mehmet Mush, despite several phone calls from the Minister, Mr. Secretary has not returned, they said: "We will inform the General Assembly." Mr. President, do you have this information? Will the zoning pardon law be extended? Mr. Commissioner, do you have it? If so, why are you hiding this information from the House, hiding it from our citizens? Or if we can't get this information without the execution, why are we making this law, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0323par0599	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0324par0600	Thank you, Mr. President. At the end of October, it rained heavily, and it damaged the garden of the citrus in Hatay, and the fruits were torn to pieces. Erzin was harmed by a narc in a land of 40,000 acres, and by a place of 10,000 acres. The area where the citrus was 100% damaged is 20,000 acres. The only thing that was done in the face of this natural disaster was a year's delay in the farmer's debt to the Agriculture Bank. However, with this damage, the farmer could not pay his debts, make a living, and he could not care for 2019 citruses. To compensate for the damage caused by the farmer's hail, the region must be declared a disaster zone, and the farmer must be given compensation or an additional loan in two years. An additional loan is required to maintain the TARSIM insured next year. The amount of subsidies-based agricultural loans must be increased, from an acre-based loan to 4,000. Otherwise, the year 2019 will be a nightmare for the citrus manufacturer. The government needs to support and encourage our farmer as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0325par0603	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0326par0604	I'm asking the Home Office: 1) How many police personnel do you have in your ministry? When will you start implementing the 3,600 additional indicators that are supposed to be given to the police? 2) What are the number of bodyguards working within your ministry? What is the number of police assigned to the president? What's the number of guards working at the House right now? 3) I've asked your ministry before, I still haven't heard back, so I'm asking again: What is the number of cults operating in Turkey? Where are the centers of these? How many branches do they have? Who are their presidents? Where do they get their income from? What are the membership numbers? Can you explain what areas they operate in? 4) What is the number of vehicles used in your ministry? How many of these cars are rented? Do you rent buildings as a ministry? How many are there? How much do you pay rent a year for rental buildings and vehicles? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0327par0610	Now, I promise to answer our Commissioner. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0612	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to start with this POLSAN. Our orator friend spoke in his speech, Mr. President made a statement, but he said it wasn't convincing, so let's just say that Mr. Tanal has questions, too. The reason why I gave you this Supreme Court ruling and examples of First and OYAK was because of mandatory membership. And when you look at both of them, you see that you have a mandatory membership. This decision is also a decision on the basis of the first decision. It is this: The Constitutional Court's decision issued on January 3, 2018 by the Afyonkarahisar Court on the application to the Constitutional Court for mandatory membership in the first place is this: İNSAN is a legal entity established by law to operate under the Ministry of National Education, with administrative guardianship of the Ministry of Education on its assets and the priorities of its owners and its creditors due to those properties. In addition, when it is considered that elementary school teachers who receive a salary from the Ministry of National Education are a public servant who is subject to status law, and FIRSTSAN is a public institution established to protect the social and economic interests of their members and to promote solidarity among their members, the relationship between its members is not a contract, but it is subject to the principles and rules of public law. As it is not possible to talk about the freedom of will and therefore the existence of the freedom of contract, it has decided that the decision is not contrary to the 13th and 48th Articles of the Constitution, on grounds that it cannot be said that the mandatory basis for membership is contrary to the freedom of contract. OYAK, FIRST and POLSAN are social welfare agencies with the same legal status. The proposal also aims to protect the rights of the existing personnel, especially after the law is in effect, by providing mandatory membership to the law enforcement agencies. Other than that, the time in this zoning peace...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0329par0618	That doesn't answer my question.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0619	The answer to your question is this: I have given an answer to the Constitution, to its legal status. Other than that, what concerns me about its content is whether or not it is contrary to the Constitution as the President of the Commission.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0329par0620	I asked the difference, that's not what I asked.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0621	That's what I'm saying. I'm thinking how it's going to work, how it's going to be done, and since the verbal question motions have already been eliminated, you might want to submit it to the Ministry with a written question motion.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0330par0622	They won't answer that either.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0329par0623	Why are you sitting there, Mr. President, to answer questions?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0624	Moving on, Mr. President. It's about the configuration...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0331par0626	You were going to do the zoning pardon. Don't jump, don't jump.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0627	First of all, Mr. Tanal's zoning pardon was left behind when Mr. Tanal stepped in. The issue of this extension -- you know, in the law that you passed in May, when you made this arrangement, the President, or rather, the Council of Ministers on that day -- was then replaced as President -- was authorized to extend their application and payments until a year later. The arrangement we're making here is the inclusion of a missing area into zoning peace.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0331par0629	Two days.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0630	What you're saying is true, and if we pass this arrangement by the will of the House, I think the administration will make an assessment in that direction.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0331par0631	Well, come on, how are we gonna get it out of here without that information, Mr. President? Can you get this stuff through without that information?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0332par0632	I mean, how's he gonna assess the law in effect?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0328par0633	I predict that there will be extensions of applications on this new situation, but those who have applied for payment will not be extended and they will be paid by December 31st. We also make an arrangement for this configuration -- which is included in Article 10 -- on May 11, 2018 -- to benefit from Law 7143, which was adopted by our Parliament, and to allow our citizens to benefit from this right again because they failed to pay the first two installments, which were necessary. If they pay these first two installments by the end of February, by the end of the month -- along with the delay hikes -- they will be neglected to restructure, and they will be able to maintain their configuration as they benefit from 7143. Other than that, yes, there was also a question from Mr. Aygun. It was about the MAKS system. I got information from my friends, and I want to share it. Friends have informed us that this Mechanistic Address Registering System is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2020. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0333par0637	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0334par0638	Mr. President, there's time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0333par0639	Yeah. Mr. Karaman...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0335par0641	Mr. President, I have made a promise in 1939 to mark the anniversary of the earthquake that took place in Erzincan, which had not left a stone on the stone, which connected 26 December to 27 December. Thank you. At the beginning of my speech, I ask God's mercy for our citizens who died in the Erzincan earthquake. May God never cause our nation such great suffering again. It's 2:00 on the night of December 27, 1939. According to official records of Erzincan's earthquake, 32,962 of our citizens lost their lives, 100,000 were injured, there were no stones left, including public buildings, and 117,000 buildings were destroyed. After an earthquake of eight, Erzincan, with the counties, returned to a ruined city. Erzincan, who had seen many wars and disasters in his history, had never been destroyed or destroyed as much as the earthquake in 1939. The temperature was below negative 10 degrees, after the earthquake, after the cold, without adequate interference, with serious casualties. Today is the anniversary of that day.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0333par0644	Thank you. Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0336par0646	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we're making warnings about zoning peace, but unfortunately, our warnings aren't taken very seriously. The most important criteria for zoning peace are people's deeds or not? While people here have been given the right to apply for zoning peace, unfortunately the deed is not considered. At least when these are being evaluated in commissions or while environmental and urban administrations assess this, they must include officers inside the commission, from municipalities and national real estate managers, from bookkeeping. Otherwise, illegal construction has been made in many parts of Turkey, even inside zoning sites, which are truly Rant-valued. Opportunists tried to take advantage of it. Here the poor poor, strange gureba can be tolerated if he built a house in the village or in the middle of a mountain, but in Bosporus, Antalya, Mersin, in the places on the coast where there is Rant value, there should be no permit. There must be a blockage about it. While reviewing the zoning peace criteria, these must be taken care of, and the state must claim the land of the state. That's our job. So he shouldn't take people's property by putting a prefab inside three awakes, building a building, building a dwelling. They must be taken care of. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0337par0649	Thank you, Mr. Lightning. Dear friends, negotiations on chapter one are complete. Now, I'm going to submit the clauses in section one to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on Article 1, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 1 of the First Amendment be removed from the bidding text of the 38th Amendment to Highway Law and some Laws. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan Mahmut Tanal Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0338par0661	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0337par0662	İstanbul MP Mahmut Tanal to discuss the motion. Here you go, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0339par0665	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. This existing law, along with the application clause, is 12 articles, along with the executive clause. Only when we remove these two substances will we have 10 items. There are eight different laws on the 10th. There are eight different laws, but I've been wondering here, whether it's from the Commissioner or the Deputy Speaker of Parliament... in the title of this law, the Highways are referred to as the Traffic Act and some of the Laws. Now, there's a 1-point change in the Highway Traffic Law, there's a 2-point change in the Capital Market Law, there's one in other laws. Now I look at the order of letters, and the highways don't come; and I look at the number of the law, and it doesn't come to this. Now, why was this Law on Highways titled, but not the Capital Market Act, not the Supreme Election Board Act, so there was no bridge pardon, no zoning peace? So, for God's sake, if anyone knows about this, let me know, or is it the devil's work, or maybe it's the trick? The Law on Highways is more elegant, more pleasant. Is it just because you needed members of the Supreme Election Board... who were the main wire in the Supreme Election Board? I'd be happy if a servant of God or a member of parliament, signed the proposal or announced it as President or Speaker of Parliament, and I'd be brushing up on my legal knowledge. About this clause... Mr. President said: "If you want to regulate the social and economic conditions of the law enforcement officers... you want to adjust the economic conditions and social conditions of the police, I ask you to do what needs to be done: One: 3,600 additional indicators. Two: They're working 12 hours under current conditions, so we need to get this down to eight hours. Three: Are the police present in the House any different from me, you, or our colleagues? No. We walk through the same door, we work in the same place. Our working officer friends -- according to the information I've been given -- are eating for $2 -- while the police are eating between $10 and $12. What's equal in that, what's justice in that? Public servants work 40 hours a week, those people work 45 hours a week, day comes, day goes, 60 hours a day. Well, he doesn't have a shift. Sir, you compared it to OYAK, Mr. President -- I don't know if you're listening -- but look, what's OYAK doing? He tells the members of the OYAK: "My brother, the money you've invested in me with very high interest rates. " Here, the police are paying three times the amount of money they're paying, or four times the amount of money they're paying. He's also giving credit. He's trying. He's giving the loan as much as the police have saved up there. If he gives more, the bank is given equal interest. Likewise, they started a Citroen car campaign last year. The same discount they gave to their members for those Citroen cars is being given to those who don't belong to them outside. The police say: "Friend, you are bringing this to us, yes, but on one condition: Keep the same conditions in the OYAK, and it will benefit us. Otherwise, it's not in our best interest, not ours. lf we really... I don't have special protection. I've received death threats, yes, they've given me the police force from the police, but I've never asked for help in that sense. It's being renovated every year, and God is just as complete as he is, so I'm very comfortable and free in that sense. Do cops buy bullets with their own money or do the government pay for them? If we're really thinking about the economic and social conditions of the police... we have friends who have been in the ministry here, and we still have friends who are protected, and we have police friends who are out there, and we need you to protect them, to protect us, to protect the country, to fight the criminals, to fight terror, they're taking the bullets out of their own pockets, friends. What kind of community service is that? What kind of a government is that? It pays for the bullet they used to train only and only for the shooting.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0340par0674	Let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0339par0675	Thank you. Friends, I mean, if we're really going to support the police financially and socially, what needs to be done is: One, give me the cop's bullet for free. Two: Pay overtime for all work on 40 hours a week. Three: it's clear, give me 3600 additional indicators. Four: The same is the price of what officers eat here, dear friends, for the same price as the police in Congress. Five: The clothes they're wearing there, the boots they're worn out, they're not enough, they need to improve those conditions, and here, I really -- I'm asking the President of the Plan and Budget Commission, if you're asking you to arrange economic conditions -- I'd like to take that in comparison to what I'm saying. Of course, you're nodding at all, but you're not. And you told me about the question I asked: "Sir, ask the Ministry." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Well, if we're going to ask the Ministry, Mr. President -- I respect you, but -- then why are you sitting there? Get up, I'll sit there and say yes or no, dear friends. Thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0341par0687	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0342par0688	Mr. President, I have a request as a commission, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0341par0689	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0342par0690	Thank you. Mr. President, the most valuable lawmakers, in fact, the third article, when referred to our proposal commission, was the 1st article, and that's why the name of the law begins with the road. The other 2 articles have been moved to the third place since the first 2 clauses were added to our Commission and we identified the substances according to the matter numbers. Oh, the name could have been changed, but at that point, we didn't save any money as a commission. I wanted to share this with you for information.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0343par0693	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0344par0694	Mr. President, that's not true. Why? Article 1, Article 3201.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0345par0695	Yeah, that's what he's saying.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0344par0696	If there was a line number, it'd be pretty easy here. Traffic Act 2918. Then why did you write Safety on Article 1? I mean, please...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0346par0697	Mr. President, we've sorted it out by date. I mean, let them know.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0347par0698	I'm now processing the other motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 1st amendment of the 1st Article of the Law shall be changed in the following way. "UNDE 1-4/6/1937 and the following joke was added after the second joke in Article 90 of Police Law 3201. "After the time this joke is in effect, the officers who took office in the Police Department are permanent partners in the Ark during their duties. The price of participation in the Ark is paid by the Treasury. Ayhan Erel Yavuz Yüyalioğlu İsmail Konçuk Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0348par0708	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0347par0709	To talk about the motion, Iconian MP Fahrettin Yoyş. Here you go, Mr. Hill.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0349par0712	Mr. President, I don't feel right about the fines that RTÜKIK gave FOX TV and People's TV today. These punishments are actually a new dagger in Turkish democracy. It's not a good thing to go. Turkey is slowly evolving towards the party state. This isn't helping anyone. Who's next, for God's sake, after we shut down the media that's already low? The answer to that question is that everyone under this roof should think about it, ask himself. That's why I resent it, I don't think it's right. You don't punish by instruction. My dear President, the precious MPs, you brought in the Police Ark. By the way, over 300,000 police officers are all out of trouble, these Policemen, these workers, they're walking around in prosperity, they're walking around, they're surprised where they're going to spend their money, they're stuck in that crate. Forty-five thousand of us are members, 250 grand are not there yet. That's what we thought we'd get. They're calling it! Is that what they're asking? Who did you ask? Which cop did you ask? Why are you bringing this? What this means is that each of you is already short of a living, you're already drowning in working conditions; you're already unhappy, you're restless; you work 14 hours, 16 hours; no one cares about you. They took it out, and they said, "Ya, we're going to start with the police. They forgot again. They're bringing it to the teacher, there's a teacher on the second-century schedule, the police are gone again. They say: "But we must pay you, your wages, at least 250 liras to $400, according to your current situation." Is it legal? No, we'll make it up. Sir, it's the first one. Is it the same bylaws as the first bylaws? Is there a democracy in the Police Ark Charter? A crate where only first-class police chiefs are managers, no one can run, no one can take over... for God's sake, let's not try to fool each other in the House. Is that even possible? Police officers are victims, police officers are restless; more than 50 people commit suicide, slaughtering their children every year; they can't take a day off, they don't have a holiday, they don't have a day off, they don't have a day off. He has a discipline that still operates in 1979, and I'm going to argue from here on out that the largest mobbingin of public enterprises, the largest human rights violation, is the Police Department, the Police Department. Especially there are civil servants, mostly orphaned children, most of whom are referred to as domestic children. They don't have names; they don't have job descriptions; they're people who are rushed into everything in that institution; they're chewed on everything; they're like police officers. For God's sake, tell me, there are people over there who have been in the Police Department, who have been in the ministry. Why don't my police work eight hours a day on European standards? Why can't there be a holiday? Why can't these reach the price of human life? Why is he pushed around? Why is it stuck between the top brass and the bottom? Why these discriminations? Turn around and take a look, for God's sake. Instead of bringing in the crate, bring in the cops and we'll talk, we'll argue, we'll get results, they'll get some peace. They're not at peace, they're restless, they're unhappy. It's impossible for an unhappy police force, an uneasy police force to bring peace to this nation.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0350par0718	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0349par0719	Gentlemen, for God's sake, for God's sake, let's take care of each and every one of our police departments, give them what they deserve, give them the credit they deserve, and give them all the respect they deserve.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0350par0721	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the 1st article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 1st article is accepted. There are two motions on the 2nd article, which I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Law Proposal for the amendment to Highway 38 and some Laws in the following way. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Orhan Sarıbal Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan In the article 2-1-5/5/57, two hundredths of which were found in the third joke of Article 20 of the Agriculture Rooms and Agriculture Rooms Act 6964, have been changed in the form of one hundredth. The signatures of the other motion are: Yavuz Zekialioğlu Ayhan Erel Behic Çelik Dursun Atash İsmail Konçuk Fahrettin Yoş Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0351par0740	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0350par0741	Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal wants a word on the same proposals. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0744	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's good to lower the entry fees in the agricultural chambers. Whoever you call useful, it's no use to anyone, just an opening to improve the situation. Actually, there's a lot of work to be done, but we don't. It's a valuable thing for a small farmer to be a member of the room, but today, everyone talks about farming a lot, this Parliament talks the most, agriculture sinks, but before that there is one thing: if there is no democracy in a country and there is no justice in it to build democracy -- it smells of salt. They say it smells of salt. The country smells of salt, of course, of course the country smells of smell. There's an AKP government that surrounds the press completely, doesn't give the farmer money, doesn't want to save the farmer from the difficult situation, the Agriculture Bank, the Foundation Bank, trying to surround the media organs, and there's a court regime. The FOX is offering something to everyone on the street, not enough, 2019, and for the future: stick, beating, violence, prison, arrest. You say: "There is no fascism in this country. Let one of you come out here, tell us about fascism in the history of the world, and see that you have nothing to do with fascism." How come it's not Fascism? You're going to lock up all media organs, you're going to hegemony all press releases, you're going to silence the speakers; you're going to make a budget; you're going to take 228 new prisons, 137 thousand people back in; all over the country -- walking around the street, watching TV -- working at home -- the jurisprudence, snitching, complaining on each other -- that secret agents are guilty of...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0353par0747	This is Turkey...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0748	Are we talking about a Republic of Turkey, which began as a congregation, then became a stable structure, and then was awarded and raised by you and later turned into a terrorist organization, which required all sorts of rankings in the public? This is not the Republic of Turkey, of course. It's a new mechanism, a new form of governance that the palace has created for itself, at the very least. And in this form of governance, more or less so, when you look at history, when you look at the dates where fascism dominates, but you know, fascism is like this: Fascism does first through imperialism and manipulism, and then creates enemies and destroys them, and then it becomes its own time when you don't find enemies. So, more or less, everyone sees who's next. If we recall that Hitler era, a German general says: "The Russian people are not yet aware of the danger of fascism and itself, because there is no blood on the threshold of every Russian citizen. " Therefore, fascism eats its enemy first, and then it turns to itself. We'll wait, we'll see, we'll see, but you have a chance. Do you know who your chances are?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0354par0751	Recep Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0752	Your luck is with the patriots of this country; the patriots you want to arrest; the leftists, socialists, democrats you want to arrest; the Kurds you want to arrest; the Alevis, the Armenians you're exploiting all kinds of beliefs; the oppressed peoples of this country; the democrats of this country, the intellectuals of this country. They're protecting you. If it wasn't for us, under that palace hegemony, of course, you'll be silenced, and of course fascism will come to your doorstep. [[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Of course, I have so much to say, so much to say. The peasant says... the peasant is finished. I don't have ministers on my right, but the people on the minister's side and you AKP people on duty, be honest and just say, "We're not going to farm on this country's land." We ignore the farmer of this country.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0355par0755	There's no such thing. You're dreaming.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0756	In this country, we have left agriculture, food, food sovereignty, and food security to foreign companies, our own subcontractors, and our import groups. You know why? Why? Because look, what you want to give this farmer, what is actually the farmer's right, but you don't, I'd like to share with you a few numbers, not a lot. One: the farmer uses 3 billion litres of diesel a year, friends, 3 billion litres. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give me a minute?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0356par0759	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0760	Three billion litres of mazota is paying $18 billion, 18 billion. That's almost 11 to 12 billion in taxes. The total money you're spending on the farmer from your budget is 16.1 billion, which is 16.1 billion, we're going to give the farmer what's rightfully his. You're going to take 11 billion out of the diesel and put it in your side pocket. You don't give the farmer anything when you put the pesticides, the fertilizer, all the other fields on top of each other, but what do you do? So you did $190 billion in agricultural exports, but I'll tell you one thing: there's nothing here for the farmer again, you know? Why not? We import 75 billion dollars of raw materials as raw materials -- wheat, barley, oatmeal, rye, corn -- you have $12 billion in exports.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0357par0761	You don't get it, you don't get it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0762	There's a $65 billion shortage of raw materials in this land, the farmer's 64 billion. But it works for you. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You're making the palace and its surroundings rich through imports. I'm asking: what companies did you buy the meat with? No. What companies did you buy the wheat with? No. What companies do you buy fertilizer with? No. No names, nothing. The minister says: I brought 300 trucks of meat. What happened, did he go down my throat? We don't know if 300 trucks went down your throat or not, but we know this: a grain of flesh doesn't go down the mouth of the poor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0358par0766	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0359par0767	Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0768	So I'm simply saying that fascism and dictatorial structures eventually disappear.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0358par0769	Let the dictator be struck by a stone as high as the Dictator!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0770	But the struggle of workers, democrats, intellectuals continues, and one day, of course, you will be on the dusty pages of this date. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0360par0773	You're full of shit.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0774	Come, I'll teach you, come, I'll teach you who tells the lie, number!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0361par0775	There's a problem with your numbers!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0352par0776	Go out, one of you say: "This number is wrong." One, one... you don't know how to count the number.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0362par0777	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0363par0778	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0362par0779	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0363par0782	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've all listened to the unreal talk of the character who just spoke on the stand. What is the truth? The truth has been transferred into the agricultural sector for $16.1 billion, $5.1 billion for agricultural investments, 5.3 billion for other supports, at $26.5 billion. With his hypothetical approaches in his imagination, the truth is very different. It is a Goebbels tactic to address his fascist ideas as a subconscious discharge, the tactic of Hitler's Minister Goebbels. The truth has always made itself true: Lies never become reality by repeating. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0364par0787	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0365par0788	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0366par0789	Mr. Bachelor...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0364par0790	He made some heavy insults.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0367par0791	No insults, just returned it, that's all. No insults, no explanations.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0368par0792	There's bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0364par0793	He picked on me, said the Goebbels tactic.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0369par0794	Wait a minute... when you two talk together, I don't understand.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0368par0795	I'm being bullied, and I'm willing to take the fall for it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0370par0796	No teasing, no teasing, no explanation.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0369par0797	Guys, let's hear it, just a minute. Mr. Saribal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0371par0799	Sir, he teased me by calling me a fascist thinker and claiming that I was lying, that the numbers were wrong. I want to talk to you about bullying according to Article 60.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0372par0800	He accused me of lying.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0369par0801	So you accept the fascist thought as a taunt?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0371par0802	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0369par0803	You told the band. So you picked on him on purpose.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0371par0804	He also said, "You're lying with numbers." I have to say, Mr. President, I'm not lying with numbers.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0369par0805	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0371par0806	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0373par0807	Those who believe in their own lies think the truth is lies.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0374par0808	You call us fascists, we don't say anything.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0375par0809	Let's not cause any more bullying, fellas.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0376par0812	Mr. President, in 2006, your power passed a law, the Law of Agriculture. The 21st article of the Agricultural Law says that agriculture is directly supported, not less than 1 per cent of the GDP. I repeat: agriculture is given direct support, provided it is not less than 1%. It says it's not going to be less than 1%, you can do 2, you can do 3, and you can support the farmer directly at the moment of production. I just want to say that from 2006 to today, the money you're going to have to pay -- unfortunately -- is 275 billion dollars -- including the 2019 budget. However, you -- including 2019, I say -- will have a total of 122 billion dollars. The deficit is 154 billion. You just don't give the farmer the right to take from the budget.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0374par0813	Look at the sum.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0377par0814	Look at the sum.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0376par0815	No, we gave it to the tractor, no, we gave it to this, no, we gave it to this... the law is clear. The law says you're going to direct production, direct production. There's a name for it, very clear, very clear. Either you didn't know when you made the law, you raised your hand without knowing it, or you regretted it, how did we make this mistake? Why should we give all this money to these men? You're in a complaint.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0378par0816	When you can give to the side...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0376par0817	That's why you're taking such an attitude. And finally, I just wanted to say that there was a minimum wage issue here. I'll give you two examples. In 2002, when you came to power, with a minimum wage, today's figures would buy 370 litres of gasoline. Now, with your minimum salary of $1,604 that you're very proud of, you're only getting 256-260 litres of gasoline. So wherever you look at it, the numbers that you actually give to your minimum wage are rotten. The last example is this 50 lira story on the street, you know? I always get $50, no matter how much gas or gas I buy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In 2002, you used 50 liras to buy 31 liters of gasoline, so at 50 liras, you buy 8 liters of diesel, you get gas. Anyone who doesn't know is heard.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0379par0822	What happened, Fascist?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0376par0823	Take those accounts, see who lies with the numbers... look at yourselves.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0379par0824	You made a promise about the fascist, you never spoke!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0376par0825	You'll see fascism when you look in the mirror. No need to answer fascism. It's not me, I'm offended, you're offended.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0380par0826	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0381par0827	Yes, I've been promised only to file a report, my dear President. It's like this: Dear friends, after all, $26.5 billion is divided into the agricultural sector. The figures are available, no comment has been made, and in 2002, the minimum wage amounting to $1382, given the amount of dollars.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0382par0829	That's the wrong math! That account is wrong, don't you get it?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0381par0830	And this is literally the best expression of the rise in power of a massive purchase parity over two times the size of three. That's the truth. The lie is one thing, the truth is another. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0383par0836	On similar proposals, Samsun MP Bedri Yaşar. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0384par0839	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 38th Amendment to Highway Traffic Law and the 2nd Amendment to Some Laws. Before I begin my words, I would like to begin by asking God's mercy to those who died in the Erzincan earthquake in 1939 and to those who died in the 104th year of Operation Yellowkamis. The entry fee for the agricultural chambers was taken from 2% of the gross minimum wage, and now it has been reduced to 1%. Here's the bottom line: $51 went down to $26 today. So, the bag came out of the law, the bag that you know by the highway, and today it's a $26 exemption to the farmer. The sum of it is that today, in the new year, about one third of our farmers face foreclosure. Today in Samsun, we met with our heads of the Chamber of Agriculture. As of the end of the month, by the 31st month of the 12th, believe me, 30 percent of our farmer's files are being filed, foreclosed. They're interviewing Agriculture Credit Co-operatives in 2017 because of debts he couldn't pay, which can only be paid by 3 installments. So today, we have no objection to one percent, okay, but at least the farmer expects an offer to postpone his debts, and he expects an offer to be supported in the same way. The President of the Commission says that there was a huge increase in traffic numbers, and we stopped it. But who made these increases? Just two months ago, Mr. President, you made these increases. Today, you give the citizens the good news that you will not apply these increases in 2019. By the way, isn't there an oxymoron? The same way we watch TV, the electricity and the rise in natural gas are taken back 10%. So, why did you do it? Who gave you these raises? I mean, where were you when these raises were going on, and why are you pulling back 10% now? In the same way, the number of dollars has dropped from seven to five digits, you say. All right, come on, bring the fertilizer down at the same rate.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0385par0844	We'll do it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0384par0845	Ma'am, you're warming up next door, so I hope you'll stop warming up and get on the stand and answer. So we're going to go on, we're going to say, guys, look, we're going to have to offer solutions here, in this House, where there's gonna be ointment for people's wounds. The minister has just expressed that one percent of the ministry's budget must be separated as support. How much did it have to be in 2017, and how much did it take? The support provided should be 31 billion in 2017, while 12.8. 37 billion in 2018 should be given back-up 14. In 2019, you need 44 billion back-up in your budget, 16 billion. So between 2017 and 2019, we need 113 billion support, 43 billion support. Now, as a result, as of today's situation in the country, is there anyone who says that agriculture is good, that everything is good, that I don't know, that the country's agriculture is really good, and we don't know that? So, if it's so good, why are we importing $9 billion and exporting 5 billion 700 million? So why is our imports higher than our exports in the agricultural country of Turkey? Please, step out and explain this on this stand. Why? Let me give you an example of Samsun. Look, today, about 50 percent of Samsun's population live on agriculture. We have Samsun MPs here, and they know it. Some 180,000 can be added, but there are no additional 10,000 per cent today, and 17,000 per cent are left to negligible. Why? Because people don't plant anymore because it doesn't save the costs, so the hikes in the diesel, the hikes in the fertilizer. Look, it's said there's been a raise today -- let's not mispronounce -- on the fertilizer that's $2.960. He says if you invest that number by New Year's, he won't give me a raise. I mean, friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0386par0851	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0384par0852	Therefore, there is no country that does not support its agriculture. All over the world, agriculture is strategic and supported. Likewise, tobacco, for example. Before it was privatised in Samsun, tobacco was produced in about 40,000 acres, under 10,000 today. Well, if we don't support the manufacturer, the people today... believe that the population in the villages has a high average of age; you all see that because people, our farmers, they don't see a future, they migrate. All of the young today are applying for jobs in large cities, for minimum wage, for a staff of 50 people, 100 people, 1,200 people, 1,500 people. So agriculture definitely needs to be supported. Agriculture is a strategic sector, as strategic as the defence industry, it needs to be supported. We hope that in the new year, our government will support agriculture, take measures to support it. He says he'll have a little bit of a smile on his face, so I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0386par0855	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to you the 2nd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 2nd article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 3 that I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Change in Some Laws by Highways 38, which are currently in session. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Özkan Yılim Faruk Sarıaslan MADDE 3-13/10/1983 and Highway 2918 added the following temporary clause to the traffic law. "Second Article 25 - Article 3 of Article 1 of Article 3 of the sentence against the penalties imposed on the verbs of this Law does not apply in 2019. The signatures of the other motion are: Yavuz Yekalioğlu Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşış Behic Çelik Metin Ergun İsmail Konçuk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0387par0873	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0386par0874	On the same grounds, Congressman Ozkan Yım. Here you go, Mr. Yum.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0388par0877	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to talk about the amendments to the Highway Traffic Law. Dear friends, first of all, I'd like to stress that we support some particular issues in the matter. For example, I am recaping the use of the necessary measures to change multiple lanes, to take a one-way route, to drive in the opposite direction, especially to throw in the opposite direction, to punish them more severely, especially to get the driver's license, as in Europe. On the other hand, you all know that when many of our citizens go to Europe, they see a pedestrian crossing, and if the vehicle is on the move, the vehicle stops and allows the pedestrian to pass safely. We're fully supportive of them. But let's get to the thing about forgiveness for the punishment on the bridge. And indeed, we are supporters of forgiveness, and there is no harm in him. You know, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, the Minister of Transport, even before this, is currently the candidate for the future Istanbul Mayor of the EC PARTY. So, at his request, a possible fear is a change in a substance that's at risk of losing in a possible election. Dear friends, as you know, because of its travel of about 40 miles [65 km], many citizens were fined for not crossing the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, but also for crossing the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge, and for passing the Bosporus Bridge. And I'll give you a little bit of numbers on these fines. By the end of 2017, dear friends, the fine of $26,744 or the firm was fined $19,922,000; the total sentence is 310. Well, in 2018, only two months will be given to those who object within two months. I say, Mr. Minister of Transport, especially Mr. President of the Commission, let's return the two-month process, the receipt paid by the citizen again, etc., away from these formalities: whoever pays the fine, the figures are obvious, the person's due, the fine is written; let's automatically return these sentences to all their accounts, without stressing our citizens. On the other hand, you know, we have a Mad Dumrul Bridge; Osman Gazi Bridge. Dear friends pay $92 to drive a car through the Osman Gazi Bridge. After passing, Yalova entered the Anatolian Side, exited the European side by Izmit; after crossing, especially in HGS, etc., if there's no money, you know, he has to pay in a week. However, the companies involved are very alert; the private firm OTOYOL -- Mr. Deputy Director of the Group -- I believe that what you have done, what your government has done, what your government has done, what your government has done, is very wrong, I think, because of this agreement that the people have paid taxes, that they have been dealt with, and that they are being pursued by the following companies -- is 10 times the punishment from Osman Gazi Bridge. More than 10 times the fine, look, the lawyer's money, et cetera, believe me, it's coming back at $34,000. I specifically ask you, Mr. Chairman of the Commission and the Minister of Transport: You forgive those who pass through the Conqueror Sultan Mehmet Bridge and Bosporus Bridge. Okay, we are supporters. Why don't you forgive the pending punishments, which the citizens of Osman Gazi Bridge also ate? That's what we specifically demand. Again, I underline that this bill was made at the request of Binali Yıldırım, which should also be forgiven. On the other hand, you know, we have Eurasia Tunnel. The Eurasian Tunnel is a tunnel run by private companies and a tunnel built within the scope of guarantees. Our citizens who pass through this tunnel have punishments waiting the same way. Therefore, we ask that you be pardoned in the same way as the Mad Dumrul Bridge and all the punishments that have not been paid or paid by the Eurasian Tunnel, both by Osman Gazi Bridge and by the Eurasia Tunnel. I'm passing this message from here, especially to Mr. Bali Yıldırım. On the other hand, dear friends, I would especially like to warn our citizens that after crossing the Osman Gazi Bridge, there was no money in your HGS, or, I don't know, don't worry about it because the OTOYOL company is a huge lion with its mouth wide open. In your HGS, if you don't have enough, $90, I'm talking about a small vehicle, which, God forbid, they pay $230 if a truck passes by. You passed, if your HGS is worth $30 instead of $90... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0389par0889	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0390par0890	Özkan, you're going to be there from now on.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0391par0891	He's the one who uses the most.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0392par0892	You'll get the same punishment when you pass, you can be sure of that. If you have only $60, $70 in your HGS instead of $92 at the exit of the Osman Gazi Bridge, then you'll be damned if you can't pay! So, get 10 times the fine, plus the legal fees ready once. I share it with you, especially with all our citizens, and with the owners, who have a small vehicle or a large vehicle. As you pass through the Osman Gazi Bridge, remove your HGS, remove your money from your pockets at the exit of the bridge, and pay in cash. So you can get rid of the OTOYOL company, the lion's teeth that opened his mouth, and there's no other way out. I especially recommend this to you. Pay up front, get out of the ticket, because you're being fed, our citizen's being fed, because of the operating system of this bridge given to the subsidiary firms. I offer my respect and love to our great nation, and I'm already celebrating 2019. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0393par0898	Müğla MP Metin Ergun will speak on the same proposals. Here you go, Mr. Ergun.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0394par0901	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers regarding the Law on Road Traffic, and the motion on Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. First of all, I'd like to start by condemning unjust and arbitrary punishments against Fox TV and Public TV. We're basically supporting this underlying clause of the proposal, and we want to say that we support it. On this occasion, we would rather talk about our truckers who say, "The roads are over, the troubles are over." We want to talk about our truckers who are trying to make ends meet in difficult commercial conditions. Our trucker trader, who works for almost a profit at high diesel prices, who stays long away from his family and loved ones to earn his bread, who is trying to continue his trade at constant risk of sacrifice, can now buy one tire for about two thousand liras, which is a minimum wage. On the other hand, high gas prices, transit fees, and traffic tickets are at a dead end, and they've reached the point where they're about to unload their bread boat. It is our primary desire and duty to relieve our brothers and sisters of these burdens. So we are fully supportive of this item that we're discussing as a good PARTY group. Members of the law, our trucker shop also has a huge problem with shipping fees in business relations with large companies. Our truckers' contracts with the big firms are low on shipping fees, and our truckers and truck companies are starting to bend their backs. Leaving shipping prices on the market means leaving our truckers at the mercy of big corporations. Low wages also disrupt the financial structure of co-ops. Like trucker co-operators, insurance premiums and tax obligations to the Finance Ministry, he is having serious problems paying. Therefore, we must find a solution to this matter. Low shipping fees, which make it difficult for our truckers who do business with big companies, need to be paid a lower limit. Let's make an arrangement so that the big firms can't force our trucker shop to pay less shipping fees than this price limit, so that our truckers don't lose their efforts. In this way, we protect both our individual little truckers and our general truckers and our cooperatives. Our trucker shop also has problems with digital tacograph editing. In this arrangement to increase traffic and driver's safety, he is victimizing our truckers because his time of rest is too long. At this rate, their driving and rest time increases the costs of our truckers. Therefore, their demands are to reduce the rest of our truckers to a reasonable level, provided the rate of continuous driving remains constant. Dear lawmakers, the importance of competition in logistical activities in the world is increasing day by day. The cost of transportation in these activities has significantly affected the country's competitiveness in exports. The logistics industry still holds the importance of road transport. Turkey is one of the highest fuel prices in the world because of the tax load, and it has a very negative impact on road transport. For this reason, it is possible for those in the air and sea transport operation to be supplied with non-OTV fuel. With similar practice, we need to provide taxis that provide trucks and public transport services, even if they are not as much for domestic transportation as for shipping and air travel, we need to be able to reduce entry costs by applying various tax reductions. As I stop speaking with these feelings and thoughts, I wish that 2019 would bring blessings to our country, to our nation, and to all mankind.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit03spe0395par0910	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the third article is accepted. I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0395par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 41st Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 38. The commission is in place. There are three motions on the 4th article, and I will proceed according to the order of violation of the motions. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 4 of the Law Proposal 38 be removed from the proposal of the law. Kemal Peköz Nuran İmir Şevin Coşkun Murat Çepni Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0396par0012	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0395par0013	Bitlis MP Mahmut Caladet Gaydal to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bagpipe.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0397par0016	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Another bag of law, another looting policy, another pro-capital approach. The idea of the AKP mentality has become such a dimension that the law is now passed that it makes the existing law impossible. With the 4th article in question, Bosphorus Law 2960 will become a tyrant. The structures in the area of the Bosporus are based on these laws and zoning plans, and the contrary will be destroyed or destroyed immediately. Now, with the law to be made, the coastal areas are transferred to capital, where they need to be destroyed immediately are pardoned by law. What kind of economic crisis spiral are you in so that you can make such a law? Again, the Bosphorus Law states that the coastal area of the Bosphorus is used only for public use. What's to be done with the law now? The history, culture, destruction of nature of construction companies will be legalized by law. It will legalise all buildings and facilities in the Boğaziçi district and all illegal structures. Where's the public interest in that? Dear lawmakers, similar destructions and lootings were the demand of capital in past-day bag laws. In this parliament, unfortunately, because of AKP's plundering understanding, we have witnessed dozens of changes that bring with them ecological destruction, such as the Law on the Coast, the Law on Mera, the Law on Forestry Law, the Law on Protection of Nature. This arrangement is similar to those practices in the past. In short, there is no protection law in this country. There are laws in this country to protect the interests of capital and we witness a new one every day. There's an executive body right now that doesn't do anything important except prepare a unique law for individuals. It is now the highest level of AKP's lawlessness that has been sought to violate laws that have been broken in the past or in the past years, which have been intended to be protected. The sad thing is, there's not a judge or a prosecutor who can stop it. Dear lawmakers, this is not a clause that was prepared yesterday. When similar rumors of law began in 2012, then Minister of Environment and Urbanism Erdogan Bayraktar said that we had no work to do with the construction of Istanbul Boğaziçi, there were only demands. Now, it's time for the demands to be met. This demand is not the demands of a citizen whose minimum wage is 2.020 lira, but of the businessmen who have pardoned hundreds of millions of dollars in tax debt, who have blasphemed against the nation and co-founded investors. Dear lawmakers are now accepted by everyone that there is a weakness of control in Turkey. We know it from the mines, we know it from the hospitals, we know it from the train accidents, we know it from the Adana Aladağ House, we know it from the schools, we know it from the trustees. If you look at the laws regarding these situations, there are dozens of laws, including the way they control them, and they have everything on how to do it. Laws with everything in them but no application. It is now said that the building structures built before 2018 will benefit from the zoning peace. • The government, which has decided to fight where peace is needed, is making peace, which is exactly the opposite where it should fight. Of course, both decisions have short-term interest accounts. Even if these decisions are predicted to benefit your power for a short period of time, in the long run, they will certainly do a great deal of damage to society. We know that you will not be able to control it, or rather, you will not. People threw a container into the treasury and took advantage of the zoning peace. Is there any guarantee that a man who built a prefabricated structure on the treasury today would not receive a building registration document until December 31st, when the zoning peace ends? No. Building peace has become a result of your election populism and a means of abuse that does not involve public benefit.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0398par0027	Here, let's finish.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0397par0028	As a society, unfortunately, we didn't learn urban planning and urbanization, and we didn't apply it. As a result, the change in the Bosphorus Law will pave the way for the plundering of the Bosphorus, which should be protected. This will be the continuation of the AKP's damage to its natural beauty, its nature, since the past. The election populism has betrayed Istanbul. Those who say "Istanbulum" are bringing such arrangements to continue a betrayal today. This arrangement must be withdrawn immediately and no more betrayal of the country. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0399par0032	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change in Article 4 of the Law Proposal for the amendment to Highway 38 and some Laws. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan The fourth statement of Article 3194, dated 4-3/5/1985, of article 3194, "in addition to the declaration of this Law, 2960, and the border and coordinate list of borders and coordinates, which have been added to Article 2960 and are defined in Boğaziçi Law No. 2960, has been changed in addition. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0400par0043	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0399par0044	İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu to discuss the motion. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0401par0047	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. Were you referring to the zoning pardon - or to the peace of the Bosporus Law? - two things were missing about the substance that brought it in, as we were talking about the general issue. One of them was, in 1983, a law that was well-organized, a law that could protect Boğaziçi, but it was abused, not implemented; from right, from left, with different comments, especially from the administration's mistakes. And now the Supreme Co-ordination Council on that law, the High Co-ordination Board on the issue of that law, was lifted by the Supreme Council of 703, and then all of this was handed over to the presidency by the Presidential decree. It's all in one place, in the center, if you'll be careful.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0402par0049	Mr. Board, the board's name has been changed.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0401par0050	But the previous board was set up independently, my dear friends; they were formed with academics, NGOs. That's what you've done with all the boards. This board consists only of people appointed by the President. So that doesn't count as a board. I want to underline that. Second important thing: I've come as Aday to Istanbul, where I've come to do a lot of work, the law is in my pocket. Here, I pardoned the bridge passes, got the traffic tickets suspended. And here I am at Boğaziçi with a pardon for the zoning. So I made it easy. Pick me, and I'll make it easy from now on. Look, you know, this law actually came to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in May, and it was accepted, so it came to be what you call a pardon or what you call a peace treaty, and then it was accepted. I'd like to read a paragraph from the law there. Is it really zoning peace, is it really solving the problems of people who have a problem with zoning, or not? See, the Computational Recording Document -- you're giving me a building registration document -- is valid until the reconstruction of the structure or the implementation of urban transformation. In the event of renovation of structures organised by the Building Register Document, zoning legislation laws are implemented. The structure is responsible for its earthquake endurance. My dear friends, in the Plan and Budget Commission, there are one or two sentences that the Özhaseki (now your Ankara President) has said when we're talking about the removal of the law, the extravagance of it, and I'd like to read it to you, Mr. Özhaseki told us that there are one or two exceptions, and I'm going to offer it now, but I'm going to offer it to the Commission here. We have no exceptions at the moment. I mean, we didn't make exceptions to the decision of the commission, we didn't bring them. Here, electricity, water, natural gas can be connected when this building registration document is issued. The mayors get out of prison, of course, and the citizen gets out of jail, gets out of the neighborhood, gets out of the fight, gets out of trouble; the demolition decisions stop, the administrative fines drop. We wrote here in particular, highlighting a few issues. This doesn't create an acquish in any way. I mean, there's six floors in the building where the citizen is already sitting, but he added one floor, seven floors. When he destroys it, he doesn't get that seven-story right. He goes to his municipality, he does what's in the law. We're just recording it. That's all. So we've made a concession. All of the things you call peace are perceptions, and you're not doing that. You're also collecting money from the community -- I don't know how much it's worth, how much it's gathered -- there's no pardon for the development. On the contrary, a lot of people are taking advantage of our friends here as mayors, but now the poor don't make a place to turn and make a place for themselves anymore, and those who really know about it, the wolves, the professionals, are organizing this business, and they're making changes that are going to cause serious problems in Boğaziçi. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me add another sentence. Dear friends, the people who live around the Bosphorus know very well that there are things that, I mean, I've said, on the one hand, the poor people have built a place to put their heads, but on the other hand, there are big rants. Look, I know, and you've heard a lot; he comes in, brings a picture, and this photo was taken by a Romanian captain who passed by ship in 1932. Look, the place at this point is ours -- it's actually its own thing -- we have a big house there, it says. Based on that, he's taken it, he's done it, he's claimed it, he's filed it, he's been in court, and now all these courts are falling, and you're giving it to him. When you say you're giving it to him, he's got a big runt, he's got a million dollars, and there's nothing for him here, you're cheating the poor guy like you always do. I'm not saying you're lying because when we lie, it's about compensation. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0403par0061	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to submit and propose to replace the original 2/1491 Roads Traffic Law and the amendment of some Laws with the amendment to Article 4 of Law Proposal, which is included in Article 4/1. Ayhan Erel Yavuz Yüyalioğlu İsmail Konçuk Zeki Hakan Sıdalı Behic Çelik Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0404par0072	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0403par0073	To discuss the motion, Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sedali... Here you go, Mr. Sedal.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0405par0076	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Another example of a bag of legislation, which has been traditionalized by the EC PARTY, but has not been seen in advanced democracies, has come to the General Assembly. The law must be prepared in detail, permanent, and in preparation, public opinion must be received. This kind of order reduces the public's confidence in Parliament and politicians. In a hurry, like running a company, you can't run a government by day-to-day plans. As part of the bill, the illegal structures in Boğaziçi will also be in zoning peace and its owners will be exempted from punishment. They're going to have a building registration, and then it's not clear. Congressmans, the Bosphorus is one of the rare natural and cultural beautys of the world, not just our country. So in 1983, the Bosphorus Law was issued to protect and transport the present tissue into the future. In Article 1 of this law, the purpose was to preserve the natural, cultural and historical values of Boğaziçi, and to limit the configuration that would increase the population. And what we're talking about right now is the law proposal, unfortunately, to look in the opposite direction of this clause. Mr. President, yes, I confess, and I also betrayed my party's executive friends, Istanbul. What did he mean by his confession, does that include this confession, and I leave it to your consciences. All Istanbulians are aware that the Bosphorus Law was issued with the special interest of our late President, Turgut Özal, in order to give the world's pearl of the Bosphorus as the greatest legacy to future generations. I hereby bless Mr. Turgut Ozal. Every year, we can see the benefits of the law that has been in effect for 35 years by looking at the Bosphorus view maps. So in the last 35 years, we see that despite the law that protects the Boğaziçi, thousands of illegal structures have been given indirectly. In this context, I can't help but think that the fourth article, which the public perceives as the Bosphorus zoning pardon that we put in this bag of legislation, is a new move to betray Istanbul. What's the point? When we slaughtered Istanbul. You seem to be leading the way for the massacre in the city where you've ruled the last 24 years. Dear lawmakers emphasised that the third article of the law could not be built into the Bosporus coastline and presumption area, and that these areas would only be used for public benefit. But now we see that the public interest has been left to initiatives that have replaced the range, and in the last 30 years, 9.616 illegal buildings have been built in Boğaziçi. According to the Bosporus Development Directorate, there are 28,873 buildings in my Bosphorus vision alone, and one of the three buildings here are fugitives, and 3,000 of them are immediately doomed to destruction. But you say, let's forget all this. Okay, let's forget it. What or what is the use of these forgetfulnesss to our Istanbul? Is Istanbul supposed to digest this betrayal? If we reverse empathy, put yourself in the place of our citizens who honor their state and nation, who follow their laws unconditionally; the neighbor next door changes, renews, grows as he pleases, adds, and when you remind them of the existing law, it works that way in Turkey. Don't we, the legislator of the Great National Assembly of Turkey, which is more than anything, contradicts itself, so even if I make the law, don't obey it. Does it mean that you shouldn't? The law of the government is to be breached. Who is responsible when its perception becomes public? Where do we stand under this roof? What about the Istanbulians who followed the law in this context, the Istanbulians who made it their way to ignore the law? Our Istanbul, which has thousands of years of civilization, of course, is more valuable than your local election concerns and your rant revenues. Members of parliament, İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality has launched demolition operations in August of the past month, waging war on illegal buildings in Boğaziçi. Now the lawmakers are telling us how necessary this new pardon is. I ask: What has changed in four months?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0406par0087	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0405par0088	I'm completing it. Despite its direct interest in Publicity, Development, Transport and Tourism Commission, this law clause has not even been taken into consideration as a subcommittee, let alone a transfer to the Commission before it comes to the General Assembly. I did it again, I did it. We're dealing with understanding. Those of us who wish to leave a beautiful Istanbul for future generations cannot confirm this clause, which will be the death sentence of Boğaziçi. Once this door is opened, there's a tradition behind it, and the last regret won't help. I invite you all to the mind. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0407par0092	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 4th article is accepted. There are three motions on the 5th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 5 of the Law Proposal for the amendment to Highway 38 and some Laws in the following way. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Faruk Sarıaslan Ahmet Kaya Emine Gülizar Emecan The following temporary clause is added to the Law on the Services of Highways No. 6001, dated 5-25/6/2010. "The administrative fine shall not be issued under Article 30 under the second joke of Article 30, since it is banned from using the Bridge of Martyrs on July 15 and the Bridge of Fatih Sultan Mehmet, from 2/11/2016, until the date of which this clause is in effect. Those who have been served shall not be notified, they shall be waived from the collection of those who have been served, if there is any objections and the waivers of open cases. As part of these sentences, the collections made prior to the date of this clause entered into force will be rejected and extradited until 31/12/12019 if applied until 30/6/2019. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0408par0105	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0407par0106	About the motion, Congressman Ahmet Kaya... Here you go, Mr. Rock.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge from Highway 38 to Traffic Law and Article 5 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. I salute our General Assembly. Honourable MPs are hereby waived the collection of administrative fines for vehicles passing through the Bosporus Bridge and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridge, if there are any objections and lawsuits filed against them. It also opens the door for extradition of collectable sentences. Basically, we have to explore and consider why these vehicles pass through these bridges without permission to cross this bridge and the circumstances that compel them to do so. The high cost of crossing the third bridge is one of the main factors that creates this situation. Therefore, we believe that the right price must be determined by reviewing the bridge fees, considering which vehicles are using the bridges mentioned first. It is necessary not only to deal with false transit sentences on the bridges mentioned, but also to address the punishments on the Ottomangazi Bridge, Eurasia Tunnel, and on the crossing points of all highways as part of this arrangement. Another issue is the way this arrangement is shared with the public. This arrangement was shared publicly by our Parliament Speaker Mr. Buli Yıldırım before it even came to the Commission, and was presented to the citizens as a sort of good news. The right thing to do is to resign from the Parliamentary Presidency first and then run for Istanbul. Dear friends, this clause appears to be one of AKP's campaign investment pencils, and its necessity is to violate financial discipline once again. What do we need the most? The AKP officials, who thought, wanted to make this arrangement because they preferred the vote in the dilemma, whether it was a vote or an economic collapse. However, we support this arrangement and say that we find it inadequate. Since you're planning on making such gestures to the nation and the country during the election, let's talk about the problems of the pensioners in this country, the problems of the young unemployed, the problems of the pensioners, the problems of the Joker workers, the problems of the unassigned teachers, the problems of the engineers, and let's talk about them and give them solutions. Look, there's been an increase in minimum wage. The Republican People's Party's proposal was $2,200, and you know it, the AKP government made $2,020. These figures didn't meet expectations, they were disappointing. In 16 years of AKP power, labour and sweat have failed to see the value it deserves again. Our workers have been sacrificed to the economic crisis and poverty due to the hikes. As of January 1, 2019, the Republican People's Party has announced to the Turkish nation that we will make a minimum wage of $2,200 net in the Republican People's Party municipalities. We will give labor and labor the value it deserves, and we will pioneer it in our municipalities. Of course, you guys don't have that problem; it's a minimum wage, it's a living, and none of you have a problem with that; we know that. Because in this country, we know that your children -- your relatives -- in particular, I'm calling on AKP MP friends -- have no doubts, no doubt -- that they would call it a living.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0410par0116	Do you?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0117	None of your kids have any problems with living, no problems with work, and no problems with your relatives. Because, as with all your work, when you evaluate job applications, your priority is to be close to you, to be supportive, and to be loyal to you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0411par0118	Do you have a living? Let's raise money, if you have it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0119	We think you've earned your right here, earned your rights for doing your evaluation accordingly. Before you, those who deserved a job in this country, those who are now close to the AKP, those who are close to you, are hired. Now, I'm here to appeal to your consciences, and I'd like to ask you a question: Is it lawful to pay a person who doesn't deserve it? (CHP clapping in rows) To your consciences, is it lawful to pay a person who has no right to take a job by pulling strings? Tonight, please, before you go to bed, please ask yourself this question and answer it in your conscience.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0412par0121	Prohibited is he who transgresses. Prohibited are those who lie, and forbidden are those who work.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0122	Dear MPs, the RTÜK has issued fines for People's TV and Fox TV at an unprecedented speed.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0413par0123	And thou hast entered into every place, and thou hast entered into every place, and thou hast come into it, and thou hast gone into FOX, and unto the people.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0124	With these jet-fast sentences, Fox TV has been sentenced to 5 broadcasts and fines.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0414par0125	Check the CHP municipalities.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0409par0126	I'm asking you again what to do. Is RTÜK an institution to silence those who speak to the AKP? It's a disgrace.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0414par0128	One more minute, one more minute of your lies!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0415par0129	He calls on the coup, not to speak to the AKP.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0416par0130	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0417par0131	You've made the country so difficult that those who talk to Erdogan find themselves in courts and are punished by the opposition broadcasters of RTÜK. What are you trying to do, what are you trying to do, and frankly, please question this seriously in your own inner world.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0418par0132	Ask your member in RTÜK.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0417par0133	We didn't find this country on the road, friends. Everyone has to watch their step. Don't be afraid of art and artists, don't be afraid of criticism, don't be afraid of people who produce.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0419par0134	Don't be afraid of us, and don't be afraid of us.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0417par0135	Be afraid to sell; fear artists, journalists, intellectuals, and innocent people, and be afraid to put them in jail. In 2019, I bring freedom, democracy, justice, peace, prosperity, and peace to our country and to the world, celebrating the new year of all our citizens, hoping to consolidate our brotherhood.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0420par0137	How is this going to be a brotherly conversation?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0421par0138	You think lying, slandering, politics.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0420par0139	Is it a brotherhood with insults?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0422par0140	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main number (2/1491) of the main highways is the traffic law and the amendment to some laws. Yavuz Yekalioğlu Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşış Behic Çelik Konçı Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0423par0149	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0422par0150	Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu to talk about the motion. Here you are, Mr. Çulhaoğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0424par0153	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to express my opinion on the motion that I have submitted on Article 5 of the Law Against the Law on Road Traffic Law and on the Amendment to Some Laws. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, on 16/8/2016, the decision of İstanbul UKOME on July 15th to restrict vehicle crossings from Martyrs and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridges. Look, when was the decision made? Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge was taken eight days before its official opening. The main reason is that the condition of Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge guarantees the passage of 49,275 thousand vehicles per year. This decision caused our citizens to suffer high-profile sentences at bridge crossings because of the class difference, and in this law, citizens are being victimised by large sums of money due to the loss of our citizens on December 15th, 2018, when I made a request on behalf of the ICI PART Group that the collection was made due to non-responsibility fees, not being known by which means of the collection was made, as a result of which vehicle. I am pleased to point out that I find the 5th article positive, which allows us to remove our citizens' punishments and take back the amount they paid for their fines. As a suggestion, I demand the removal of OGS and HGS sentences during the crossings of the Eurasian Tunnel through the roads of the Osmangazi Bridge, highways and bridges and bridges, and the reevaluating of the UKOME resolution, the van, the panelvan, the N1 class, the cars with RVs on the license, will be made to pass through all three bridges. Another cause of injury is the height of car insurance prices. Therefore, I would like to ask the authorities, especially immediately, to focus on this issue and to go to an arrangement here and to address the victims of the owners of the vehicle. Dear lawmakers, we, the good PARTI Group, have become the voice of our citizen, and we will continue to be. Our chairman, Mr. Coral Akshener, expressed our citizens' complaints and victims at our party's group meetings, not only that, he also showed the government the solutions. I'd like to give you a few important current examples that concern our citizens closely. On October 23, 2018, Mr. Coral Akşener said that the base price for nuts should be $10, cost and $5 worth of wealth, totaling 15 Turkish liras. Three days later, on October 26, 2018, you announced the base price for the purchase of nuts as $14.5 Turkish lira. On November 20, 2018, you will raise your salary as much as you do your salary, 26 per cent, minimum wage will be 2.020 Turkish liras. He said, 35 days later, you gave a 26 per cent raise to minimum wage on December 25, 2018, minimum wage is net 2.020 Turkish lira. On November 13, 2018, we took down the tattoo today. So, did the air throw down the price of natural gas, electricity? They say there's no chance. They say there's already a 30 percent increase. If the exchange fell, take back the increase in electricity and natural gas. He said: "Take back electricity and natural gas." And after forty-two days, on December 25, 2018, it was stated by your government that as of January 1, 2019, there would only be a 10% reduction in electricity and natural gas. As it turns out, the voice of the people and the breath of the people are doing their job well, and he will continue to do it. 3600 additional indicators must not be forgotten, we will not forget them as good parties. Yes, the new generation of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk will be your work. Didn't we promise our teachers who raised us, our police, our nurses, our midwifes, and our imams, who have a whole group of political parties? We did. In order to keep you from forgetting your promises, we will continue to say that until 3600 additional indicators are given as a good PARTY group. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0425par0163	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0424par0164	Thank you, Mr. President. Until those of our subcontractors who can't get a staff in the municipalities are given their staff, we'll talk about the loss of pensioners until the 4+4 increase injustice is resolved. You turned down the law proposals we gave you. You bring it, we support it, we solve the victims of our citizens together, and we'll come back and thank you, dear friends. I salute your grand delegation, with such thoughts and feelings, in the hope that the year 2019 will bring blessings to our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0426par0169	Mr. President, it could be after the procedure, sir, after the vote.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0427par0170	I'll give it to you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0173	In his beautiful speech, Mr. orator, he criticised and taunted all groups except our group for failing to keep their promise to all other groups. I don't know about other parties, but I want to take the fall.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0429par0174	I didn't tell you anything.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0427par0175	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0176	Don't make fun of it, right?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0427par0177	Let's do it from there.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0178	Well, this time, no way.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0427par0179	Sure, sure, without precedent...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0182	I'm answering from here so there's no road. I also thank my congressman for giving us this opportunity, and it's true that he said that in the elections, the EC PARTI, Republican People's Party, Peoples' Democratic Party, the National Movement Party and the candidates for the NGO PARTİPİPİ have come out, and they have made a promise to this nation regarding 3600 ▪, including President Recep Tayyip Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0427par0185	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0186	Sir, I'd like to ask the teachers, the police, the nurses, our religious officials, to consider...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0430par0187	Imams...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0428par0188	No, it's the clergy, dear. We promised that this would be given, yes, but we've also proposed law as soon as the House opened, and we've submitted a motion to investigate the issues related to this matter. We stand by our word, and if the other parties are behind it, let's make a Council of Counsellors tonight, give them 3,600. We're at this point, I don't know what the other parties think.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0431par0193	Now, friends, I'm going to read the other motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal 38 in question is hereby waived by the release of its "opposition," if there are any objections and open cases, in Article 4 (U.S.) under which the framework shall be added to Article 5 (U.S.) under Article 6001. We offer that the statement be "responsible, if there are any objections or open cases, there is no decision to be made, and the charge of judgment and follow is left on the parties, and the fee shall not be passed. We submit and offer. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0432par0201	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0433par0202	Motive...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0431par0203	We're reading the motive: The motion stipulates that the courts will decide that there is no room for a resuming verdict on lawsuits and appeals by removing the demand for a waiver to waive the collection of prosecution or administrative fines brought to trial. A change aims to prevent time wasted and prevent any hesitations that may arise in practice.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0434par0206	The commission's not in, repeat after me, sir. The commission disagrees, sir. The commission declared that it did not participate.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0431par0207	I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 5th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 5th article has been accepted. There are four motions on the 6th article, and I will process them according to the order of violations. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the Article 6 of Law Proposal 38 be removed from the proposal of the law. Kemal Peköz Nuran İmir Şevin Coşkun Murat Çepni Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0435par0219	We disagree.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0431par0220	To talk about the motion, İzmir MP Sepil Kemalbay Peköpegü. Here you are, Mr. Kamalbay.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0436par0223	Thank you, Mr. President. Someone threw a rock into a well, and we're all trying to get it out. We're negotiating a bag of laws, so I'd like to get my first review right on the bag. The bag is supposed to be an exception to the law, but so far we've been trying to pass all the laws in the form of a bag of laws. This, in fact, is a great disrespect to the House. Because we were sent here by the people to represent the will of the people, to reflect the criticism, demands, decisions of the people, to reflect them here, but here we are in violation of the principles of the law and the principle of sovereignty, where a lot of non-explained substances, under the name of the law, come here and try to pass through. It's not acceptable in this regard, bag-bag law. My first offer here, let's get out of this bag of law routine, put the bag of law aside, and get a real living function going. Then I think we could be a lot more useful. Some decisions have just been made here in other materials. For example, decisions on bridge crossings have been made, and some of the proposals for suspension, removal of sentences are coming within the law. We think these proposals should be discussed radically. Let's discuss bridges, people. When these bridges were built, when governments built these bridges, didn't they do it on public taxes? They did. These bridges, which are made with taxes of the people, have no money. Let the cost of the bridges be curtailed. Then why is money still being taken from bridges? Are these bridges still not paid for? Like this, the 6th article of the proposal that we discussed today is a law on the great city, a law on villages that used to be a village and then were brought to neighborhood status with Law 6360. What's it called? There are victims here, let's postpone these victims a little bit. It's called, I mean, there are penalties, there are taxes, property tax, drinking water, use water. These kinds of pencils, which are not known for what purpose and for which they are being used in terms of which income class are being used, are being offered a postponement; a postponement is being made. For one thing, there are victims, but let's postpone these sacrifices a little bit. It's called. No, let's eliminate these victims; why should there be victims? For example, whose punishment are you postponing in connection with the suspension of the property tax, drinking water or use water? You may also be delaying the punishment of a large hotel, which may include forgiveness; you may be postponing the tax of a villager, a villager, and a poor worker. So we have to look at the nature of these things. When we don't look at its quality, when we do generalization, there's no way we can get justice in that generalization. We say that every citizen should be able to use 10 cubic metres of water for free, and we argue that every citizen should have a certain kilowatt hour electricity, a dwelling where every citizen can put his head in. Come on, we'll talk about it, we'll legalize it. So let's not take advantage of these kinds of laws that come to the shores and take advantage of those who take advantage of the Rant of the place, which are unpredictable, which are serving which income classes. So let's not bring in the bag of laws; let's discuss the laws that people, the poor, the laborers, can live their daily lives in a human way.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0437par0228	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0436par0229	That's why we don't approve of this bill. Yes, it should be postponed, but it shouldn't be postponed for everyone. Let's take more taxes from the rich, let's not take taxes from the poor. We have to sort out these laws so that we can separate them, and we have to discuss who we're going to make these laws for. The bag bill doesn't serve that, guys. On the other hand, when we're arguing here, there's a variety of statements going on, and I'd like to make a correction. For example, when we were discussing the laws here, a preacher said, "There is a head of the house. Just as the head of the household does something wrong, if this results in a bad outcome, if the country's head is wrong in the first place, the whole country will be troubled by it. Friends, we are against the chieftains. We do not want princes in houses, nor do we want princes in the land. We want equality. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And this council must be a council of equality, a council that will ensure equality. To greet...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0438par0235	I've extended it for a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0436par0236	Oh, yeah? Well, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0438par0239	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and offer to replace Article 6 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws with the main Law on Highways (2/1491) in the following way. "MADE 6-12/11/2012 dated on the 14 counties of 6360 and until the beginning of the district of Metropolitan Municipality and the establishment of 27 districts in the 14 provinces and until the end of the 15th year of the 15th amendment to the Constitution of the Law and Law Act, the ibares of the 1st Article of the Law have been changed until the end of 21/12/202020. Yavuz Yekalioğlu Ayhan Erel Fahrettin Yoşış Behic Çelik İsmail Konçı Ayhan Altıntaş Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0439par0250	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0438par0251	To talk about the motion, Ankara MP Ayhan Altıntaş... Here you go, Mr. Goldstone.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0440par0254	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. As Ankara MP, I'd like to congratulate you on the anniversary of Ataturk's arrival in Ankara. [[A round of applause from the good PARTY and CHP rows]] Before my speech, today's punishments for Fox TV and Public TV have damaged press freedom, and I would like to say that I find the decision unfair. I'd like to review a few aspects of this law. Number one, it's about our law-making system. We do the law without thinking or arguing enough. So we try to make laws day and night and correct things that don't work in the old laws or cause problems in practice. For example, the first 10 articles of this law are about changing materials that could not or could not be applied in previous laws. We write the laws in sloppy language and subsistence, not enough to investigate the effects of the law on other laws. The second issue is the use of the basic and bag of law technique in our Parliament over the years. It's defendable that law enforcement is intended to be expedited here, but it involves a lot of problems. Articles entering the positions of several specialist commissions are based solely on fiscally qualified provisions and are brought to the General Assembly by the Plan and Budget Commission. Therefore, it is not possible to benefit from the expertise areas of the residency commissions, but the risk of the adoption of the laws laid out on the first issue is increasing without sufficient consideration. Furthermore, it is not often possible to get the opinion of civil society agencies because the law is rushed to the proposal stage. This also leads to increased legislature failures. In short, this basic and bag of law technique, which aims to meet needs with a pragmatic approach, increases the possibility of more laws being passed in the long run. Also, sloppy reasons make it difficult to interpret the law, but especially as election times approach, such laws retain their charm for governments. This law also involves pre-election pragmatism practices. For example, pre-election populism laws, such as the extension of tax configurations, the extension of the exemptions of some laws, the integration of illegal structures in Boğaziçi into the implementation of zoning peace, have been imposed on this law. Especially when it's a time in the world where we've made the unparalleled Bosphorus uncompromised, abusive, and ugly, instead of correcting it, legal immunity by putting it into zoning peace will go down in history as one of the greatest betrayals to Istanbul. This will encourage greater betrayals in the future. Another important issue is the adoption of a personal law. According to the principles of universal law, individual laws should not be made in democracies. Unfortunately, we've seen a lot of this kind of practice in the past, and we've exhausted trust in the government. Article 9 of this law includes the extension of the mandate of members of the Supreme Election Board that expired. It is difficult to explain in the democratic world that there should be a special law for one and that it should be done before the full election. On the other hand, we cut bridge tickets without giving the citizen enough information, we didn't notify them for two years, the citizens continued to pass, the fines found hundreds of thousands of dollars, the citizens were hurt, and now we forgive them. As Nasrettin Hoxha said, we lose the donkey first and then we find it. We are also announcing this arrangement by our Parliament Speaker, who will be running for mayor in Istanbul, to the summit of election populism. In view of all these issues, this law provides solid grounds for both the shape and the content and the violation of democratic traditions. Article 6 does not provide a permanent solution to the issue as to the extension of exemptions to villages whose legal personality has been removed. It is understood that the substance aims to look cute to our villagers before the election. We don't object to the comfort of our villagers for a while, but we desire a more permanent solution to the matter. I salute you all with my faith that we will make more careful and careful laws in the future. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0441par0267	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 6 of the Law Proposal to the Law on Highway 38 and some Laws. With all due respect. ADADDE 6-12/11/2012, the statement of the Council of Metropolitan Municipality in 14 provinces No. 6360 and the Constitution of some Laws and Laws shall be changed in the form of the 10th Amendment to the 15th Amendment of the 1st Article of the Law until the date of 31/12/2022, until the date of ▪31/12/2020202020. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan Kazım lion Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0442par0279	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0441par0280	To talk about the motion, Congressman Kazim Arlen. Here you go, Mr. lion.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0443par0283	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute all of you with love. The title of this law that we are discussing today is the Law on the Roads and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. Now, when we look at the entire proposal of the law, it's a bill of 12 articles. Well, if you count two of these as a matter of effect, there are 10 major substances that are concerned about the basics of the work. I want to point out that in these 10 main articles, nine separate issues, one solution at the point of change here, is trying to bring in a change, which is a fact that a bag of legislation like this is still a sign that we've been talking about since day after day, and we've been constantly critical about it. I hereby declare that it is a very important issue in terms of its integrity, in terms of its laws, in terms of its own legislation, in terms of its own title, in terms of its law. Now, my dear friends, there is also an arrangement in the villages about a forced tax transfer, especially after a change in the 6th article, regarding the construction of 14 cities and the establishment of 27 counties, as a result of an arrangement that eliminates the legal personality of villages and towns. However, the essence of Law 6360 needs a radical change, my friends. So, I'd just like to point out that it's more appropriate for villages and towns in a 50km circle to be brought into the big city in a more orderly way, not just in a radical way, but rather in a radical way, to be dealt with, not in a whole-town circle, but in a more orderly way, to be brought into the big city. Because we see a lot of shortcomings, setbacks, that there really aren't many places in the ministry. In particular, our naval province is one of these cities and has become the capital city. We also see that many of our villages, our town, our town, and our district have not had enough service, and in many places there are many disconnects between the mayors of the district and the Mayor of the Metropolitan, if there is no political tie, privileges are being made, practices are being carried out in this way. So to give that up, it would be very important to evaluate them as a whole city and to run the work at this point. Now, we have districts in Denizli, especially our southern district and the district of Sarayköy. Believe it or not, there's been no infrastructure here and no roads since the big city. Two of our most important counties have been through hard times in the winter, through the mud, through the summer, through the dust. Let's not ignore them. Furthermore, in our districts of Chivril, Çivril, Çal, Babadağ, Tavas, Kale, Beyaçı, Serinhisar, Çareli, Baklan, Honaz, both their centers and villages -- we see that there are not enough shortages in the flow of services. For him, my dear friends, we need a real radical change. I would like to point out that there is a benefit to the emergence of a law that is truly directed to the ministry, not by such short, temporary materials, but by a more radical change in their time. By the way, of course, we've received a report today that the fine for public TV and Fox TV... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0444par0292	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0443par0293	It really upsets us that the fine for public TV and Fox TV was issued by RTÜK and the decision to stop broadcasting. This is a decision against freedom of the press and freedom of the media. I would also like to point out that this decision is not really appropriate, that it is not legal, and that it is a biased decision. Just as RTÜK gave up on this decision and literally ignored other publications, just as it did not punish the media, the pool media, many programs, many mispronouncements and insults, it should not punish our networks. I would certainly like to point out that there's an inequality here, that it's unfair, and I condemn that decision. I bid you all good evening. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0445par0297	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Law Proposal 38 of this date (including this date) has been replaced by Article 6/12/2022 in Article 6360 (including this date) and has been proposed until the 10th and 12/12/2022, which is included in the 10th and 12/12/2022. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Recep Special Sermin Balık Zeynep Gül Yilmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0446par0308	We're giving it to you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0447par0309	Motive, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0445par0310	I'm reading the reason for the commission's recommendation: It is intended to address possible hesitations in the application. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 6th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 6th article has been accepted. Congressmans, there is a motion for a new clause violation. According to Article 87 of the Civil Code, the following proposal will be discussed as a new clause on proposals which are not included in the commission text, but which are very closely related to the proposal. That's the rule, but I'm going to run the motion I'm going to read now on the agreement of five political parties. I'll have the motion read and ask the Commission. If the commission agrees to the motion, mostly with 16 members, I will open a meeting on the motion as a new clause. If the commission simply disagrees, I'll dismiss the motion. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that the following clause be added to the Law Proposal 38, which is being discussed after Article 6. Özlem Rich Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Mustafa Sentop Engin Altay Ayhan Bilgen Mohammed Levent Bulbül Serkan Bayram Yavuz Yekalioğlu Mehmet Bekkinoğlu Ramazan Can Sureyya Sadi Bilgiç "UNDDE 7- 1/12/2012 and number 6253 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly President, added the following temporary clause to the Executive Service Act. No matter the status of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Executive Service, those who have been identified by the Support Services Presidency for at least five years who have been running the Kabas mission for at least five years, at the same time when this clause is in effect, have been assigned to the ranks that fit the ranks they are currently in, no matter how long they've been in. As of the date they were appointed, their staff was violated, regardless of the provisions in other laws, and no further action required, and it was added to the table number Ekli (I). As part of this clause, those assigned to the kavas staff receive all kinds of financial and autonomy rights that are applied to the Kabas staff in line with their acquistors in the date when this clause is in effect. Does the commission agree with the motion mostly?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0448par0334	Mr. President, there are only so many of us, we agree.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0445par0335	Since the commission has only participated in the motion so often, I'm opening a meeting on the motion as a new clause. Vocabulary? No. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. Good luck with that. [[Applause]] Dear friends, this concludes the vote of substances in chapter one. Members of parliament, so a new clause has been added to the proposal. Subsequent numbers will be identified by our president during the draft of the law. In order not to cause any confusion in the negotiations, we will continue the negotiations of the proposal through the current matter numbers. Now we begin the interviews of the second section. The second part covers the 7th to 12th article. There's a commitment request on chapter two. On behalf of the groups, first on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, Antalya MP Hasan Subaşa. Here you go, Mr. Subas. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0449par0348	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the second part of the Law Proposal for Road Traffic Law and Changes in Some Laws. I'd like to start by condemning the punishments for Fox TV and Public TV. Mr. President, two months ago, on October 17th, I gave a speech on the Law on the Traffic Law and the Law on Changes in Some Laws. I remember saying in that speech, I'm against these traffic tickets. Maybe the government needs money, but the citizen doesn't have the money to pay these fines. I explained that the issue of deterrentism in your motive did not solve the issue, and that the current penalties were enough deterrents. I thought if you raised these fines, you'd have to make amends after a while, but the truth is, I didn't think there'd be a pardon in two months, and I didn't think there'd be a pardon in such a short time. But I remember saying those exact words on October 17th. Again, when I was a local manager, I told them that there were 15 zoning pardons, that zoning forgiveness encouraged new, illegal construction, and that it could lead to unprovoked enrichment, that there should be radical solutions. We said that such pardons were a sort of liquidation of issues that governments couldn't solve, that it was a fundamental solution, but we prefer to solve them by taking a law -- arguing, studying -- and that's the way the law works. But we're also bringing new problems to the bag of laws, the bag of laws that always come into everything. Again, then, about 15 zoning pardons -- he didn't solve anything -- but now we're supposed to protect Boğaziçi, and we've covered that. Think about it. We need to know that when there are so many poor people in Turkey who receive taxes from minimum wage, the smallest problem structure in Boğaziçi also creates new millionaires. There's no point in creating new millionaires in Turkey -- with a simple law -- and it's a crime to include the Bosphorus in a law that was made two months ago, without reviewing, without arguing, without destroying its value, not just in Turkey, but in the world. In the law two months ago, we said "jailing," and when we looked at the reason for this law today, the law was set to speak of the victim of our citizen. Our motive two months ago is deterrentism, and two months later, we victimize our citizen. Article 3 of the article 3 was deemed appropriate to continue the 2018 sentences, due to the excess of the traffic tickets I told you that day. Again, a pardon for HGS, OGS punishments came to the trucks and trucks crossing the second bridge in Article 5. Of course, when they wrote in the private sector, the fines were so fined that the private sector took part of those fines and did not cross the second bridge. Again, when we look at the 6th article of the proposal, with an application in the villages, we reduce drinking water and delay property taxes for another four years. So it's important to ask, why did we remove these villages when we were building Law 6360? However, villages have been social units in Turkey for hundreds of years before cities; they have a tradition over a thousand years; they have a purpose, a culture, a solidarity, and everyone is committed to their village, and they farm in their villages, animalism. From the example of Izmit and Istanbul... in Izmit and Istanbul, as you know, cities have merged, no village, no countryside, no livestock, no agriculture. Since this has been implemented in Istanbul with İzmit, let's apply it all over Turkey. It's been said to be a disaster. Half of Turkey's villages, province's private administrations and municipalities in the region have been evacuated in major cities. So half of Turkey has villages, half of Turkey doesn't. Villages are the units where a citizen meets the first state unit, meets his local manager; it's a morale, it's a democracy, it's a teaching area. Again, the nearest service units were the most valuable municipalities in the city. Look, today, to the city's municipalities, the great city has become an exile bed. Many of his exiles, his employees, they get paid there, and he sits there. But there were chosen ones there, and the citizen would get there, ask for service, and speak for it. Law 6360 is a law that is forbidden. Instead of delaying sentences with such palliative measures, bringing in water forgiveness, lowering prices, exclusion from property taxes, there should be reviving villages, putting agriculture and animalism at the forefront. Now, our people in the village have been thinking about numbers, putting agriculture and animalism in second place. We're going to start importing everything for him soon, and we're going to start being a poor country with nothing to do with it. From the bottom to the bottom, it is necessary to renegotiate the uncomfortable parts of 6360. In Article 9 of the Supreme Election Board, the extension of the mandate of its officials, we are looking at the basis of the law, for which there are elections ahead of us, and these judges have the experience of these employees. He's got experience, but he's got experience for you. When we call this experience what we call an experience... it's not legal to make this choice... because it's a law against signing and sealing ballots, it's a crime against the law, it's a crime against the law. There is experience. In the experience of the judges, you call it, he has a disability, and that will not give the elections a healthy image again, it will create a debate of legitimacy, and the people will become afraid of his experience. Who knows how that experience will be applied? When we look at it, we've come to terms with the laws of pardon and substance.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0450par0361	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0449par0362	I'm completing it. Forgiveness, as I said at the beginning of my words, is to pass on the issues that governments can't handle, but can't solve, from time to time, to liquidate. So is military service. 16 years of power has not solved the problem of military service, has failed to address it. So he's going to eliminate the problems that have been piled up in the process of taking out military service at intervals. So the government, which has so much power, must make laws in a proper place to confront problems and discuss them so that we can bring Turkey to peace. I'm ending my words, and I'm paying all of you my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0451par0366	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Iconian MP Esin Kara. Here you go, Mr. Kara. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0452par0370	Mr. President, lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the second part of the Law Proposal for Change in Some Laws under the 38th Street Traffic Law. I salute our Veteran Assembly. Last week, after 12 days of intensive work, we approved our budget law of 2019. The most important element of our budget's revenue pencils is no doubt taxed by 756 billion 495 million TL, at 86 per cent. Given the impact of recent games that foreign forces have played on our country's economy, currency and interest figures, we should not miss the possibility that consumption, imports and investments will shrink rather than increase tax revenue. The tax problem is one of our country's major problems that has been going on for years. It is our wish that the distribution of taxes be brought to a fair level, that there be appropriate arrangements for tax collection problems and off-the-book economies. If you look at the estimates of tax spending in our budget, the income we've given up because of tax exceptions, exemptions and reductions is almost twice our budget deficit. We have a serious tax failure problem. The recent play on currency, interest and hot money has led the Turkish economy to instability, uncertainty, loss of confidence in the economy, instability has been effective on domestic and foreign investors, and investments have reached a halt level. If there's no investment in an economy, we can't talk about progress. At this point, our government must revive production, restore confidence in the economy, by providing subsidies and incentives to support the private sector, both to weigh in on its own investments. Under the law we are meeting, we support as the National Movement Party Group, which has been able to pay the debt to the taxpayers who have been able to restructure their debt under the Law of the Amendment, dated May 11, 2018, and some other Acquisitions of Tax and Other Laws, and who have lost the right to use the law, but have not been able to pay it according to the Law. In the environment of insecurity that we talked about withdrawing hot money from the market, the additional deadline for the taxpayers was by the end of February 2019. Our party has received requests from many citizens and financial advisors. By relaxing the taxpayers, the measures needed to restore the market must be taken, the transfer of social security premiums, and the incentives previously given under the name "veal water" must be brought to the agenda. Members of parliament, on August 3, 2016, on May 18, 2017, 7020, May 11, 2018, the Law on Reconstruction of Some Acquisitions, you are aware that every eight months, we have passed almost one configuration law. In a short time, these laws, which may have a purpose to gain income, will be pardoned by the taxpayers anyway. They are reversed by their habit and expectation; the taxpayers are beginning to procrastinate payment of their tax debt. Even the taxpayers who pay regularly, I'll pay them in advance. They expect and don't pay taxes. Again, what is my fault in raising an appeal to taxpayers who pay regular taxes? I pay my taxes on time, there's no difference between us. There has been a legal arrangement on this issue, but the Law of 6824, dated 8 March 2017, failed to reach its full objective, due to the conditions for the five per cent income and tax reduction of institutions, which were imposed from January 1, 2018. In the last two years, the law has been seeking a tax-payment requirement without delay, and the taxpayers who pay their taxes regularly but have been delayed several times are not allowed to benefit. It would be appropriate for these conditions to be rearranged. The common goal of configuration laws is to fight off the informal economy, but the situation is reversed. Let's look at the common materials of the last three configurations: Although it's in the records, 3 per cent of the amount of net purchases from partners and the cash register that is not available in the business is granted to correct these accounts by paying taxes. It's the money that's usually spent by partners in over-casualty businesses, which exist in the records, which are actually destroyed. The amount transferred from shareholders' accounts to the bank's account is interest rate at the highest rate of interest that banks have applied to commercial loans, which is dedicated to the partner, and then the government receives interest revenue by billing the partner; institutional tax, income tax, and added value tax. But with our configurations, we've given up both incomes. A statement of assets, equipment, and equipment that are not included in the records, which means that the taxpayer is missing property without a bill, or VAT. Again, companies with tax payments and income and institutional tax payments can lose the state by 12 per cent and 18 per cent, assuming they have assets that are not available, and then taking them into account for the costs of the goods sold by 1.4 per cent or 10% of which they receive from 22 per cent of the company's taxes. After all, I've done a marah increase for the added value tax. I'm not going to be examined anymore. I've already raised income and institutional tax. From now on, I won't be examined. The logic, even if it is examined, will be avoided by the missing fugitive. You've increased the matrah, you've done the configuration. Your notebook is now carefully preserved. Confiscations on certain taxes are somehow paid by a small margin. With regard to the idea of paying taxes, the taxpayers no longer have the habit of not paying taxes on time. Save the moment, get a plastic bill. The configuration will come out anyway; it won't be found, it won't be examined. My book won't go through the configuration anyway. I will not face any penalties for income and institutional tax. I don't have a stockpile, but if there's a configuration, I'll go to the commodity increase. And then I'll write it down, and then I'll put it at the cost of the product. So I'll get rid of the corporate tax and income tax. The idea is becoming common. Based on my professional experience, I'd like to explore the construction of the taxpayer. Our goal here is to eat grapes, not to beat up the farmer, but to do so is to make a fair tax distribution and a proper law as soon as possible. I believe we can find a common way, especially when the laws on tax collection and configuration -- 3568 -- are adopted by free accountants, financial advisors, and sworn financial advisors. At this point, if we don't address the problems of my colleagues, the financial advisors who were bridges between the taxpayer and the administration, this bridge will crack. The important thing is that tax payment is a subject's right of duty and the consciousness of national duty is immunized to our citizens at an early age. At this point, we will be saved by generations and national awareness, who question the legitimacy of the amount that they have lost from tax in their pocket, who come and calculate their expenses, not by the law, but by the fear of God. I would like to end with the words of our leader, Mr. Doctor State Gardener: "We are not prisoners of dollars, we are not born with dollars, we do not die without them; if the oppressors have mechanisms that trigger currency, finance and economic instruments, then we have a resistance that will not be broken, and a national spirit that will not be shut down. " I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0453par0386	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0454par0391	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on behalf of the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Proposal to Change Some Laws. I salute you all. Now, in the second part of the proposal, I'd like to briefly remind you of what the ingredients are. Article 7 of the Capital Market Law has been replaced once again by Article (3) of Article 16, which was replaced a year ago. The 8th article of the proposal is granted several privileges on public resources, particularly funding of the accession banks. The 9th article of the proposal is scheduled to extend the mandate of members of the High Election Board, which expires in January 2019, to 2020, to 2022 January, and to 2023. The 10th article of the proposal is also being changed about the configuration of tax debts. For those of you who do not take advantage of this, let's say that forgiveness is granted again. Our friends will make the detailed assessment of this. I would especially like to say a few words about the 9th article of the proposal. Now, the reason for Article 9 of the proposal is two basic reasons. First, the election calendar will begin in January, and after the election calendar begins, let's not change the duties of the board members, and let the board members remain in office. Second, let us benefit from the experience of members of the Kurul. Now, as a lawyer, I would say that there are a lot of lawyers -- they taught us that the most important thing about law is that it's abstract and general. If you hadn't discussed it in one day at the Plan and Budget Commission and submitted it to Parliament the next day, perhaps it would have been possible to discuss this clause in more detail and make a general arrangement. How? I'll give you an example: We could rule that members whose term of office ended in January of the year when the Mahalli administration elections were held will end in January next year. So by making such an arrangement, the term of office would end in January, and the board members would not only be renewed in 2020, but would not be renewed in the next election. We could postpone this for a year or we could postpone it for six years. But this arrangement means an arrangement for individuals only. Now, that's just not my opinion. I'm sure everyone on the street who's heard of this legal arrangement is probably close to the AKP, which is why they're being extended their term of office. Now, given this arrangement, you've done a fundamental injustice to the board members. Thus, it is unfair for both the country and its board members to be brought before the General Assembly in such a manner. Once again, it will not only be today, but from now on, there will be a huge debate over the members of the High Election Board. It's one of the few institutions that's recently had an erosion of trust, one of the Supreme Election Board. Look, you all know very well that there are a lot of institutions in this country that are trusted, considered trustworthy, but there are people who trust and don't trust each of these institutions. Those who trust the military, the ones who don't trust the law enforcement, the ones who don't trust the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the ones who don't trust the Prime Minister, the ones who don't trust the President, the ones who don't. In this country, however, there were a number of institutions that were considered trustworthy, one of which was the SNSI, and one of which was the Supreme Election Board. Until the AKP governments, an average citizen in this country thought that if he was successful, the result of that test was objective. The lack of confidence in the OPJ has been granted to the AKP governments. Another distrust occurred to the High Election Board, which led to your governments. I don't know if it's called "nasip", but really, it's been given to the governments that you support. Why? You know, there's only one decision that the High Election Board had made after Recep Bey's application, that the unsealed ballots would be considered valid. Look, this decision, no matter how well-intentioned members of the High Election Board, has led to serious public distrust. Now, when this law is passed, the confidence of the High Election Board will be deeply degraded. Which is why I think it should be taken back. Now, this is the basic business of trusting the Supreme Election Board and the elections, not just about going to the polls and voting. I'd like to share with you my views on this election's insecurities. Here's one: the issue of publishing principles. I have two decisions, I'll tell them. Articles No. 6112 of the Law on the Foundation and Publishing Services of Radio and Televisions, Articles 30 and 45, Articles 298 of Elections, and Articles 55/A of the Law on Voter Logs, 55/B of the Law on these publications. In 2014, in 2015, in 2017, and in 2018, these publications have not changed. I've got a few of these, which I'm going to read to you, and the Supreme Election Board is counting the principles of publishing, and it says that it's written with radio and television organizations responsible for acting in accordance with the principles of disparity, reality and truth, and it's written and it's written and it's visual media that can't do one-way, it's not going to be able to be able to participate, it's not going to be able to participate, it's going to have to be published in terms of democratic policy parties and independent candidates, and it's going to announce the outcome of their initiatives in their broadcasts, and it's going to public principles. Now, according to Law 6112 and Law 298, the Supreme Election Board states that you will obey these publications, so your publications will act according to the principles of freedom, honesty and equality. Well, no, they've only been promoting one party from morning till night, what's going to happen? Then the 15th of July, which is Allah's grace, will come to pass. How? Here's how it's going to go into effect: Article 149/A of Law 298, the title of the article is: crimes related to private radio and television broadcasts, such is the title of the article, and there is no content. Why not? Because all sanctions against such crimes have been lifted by the State of Emergency (CHK) and the State of Emergency No. 687. What does it have to do with the State of Emergency? It has something to do with this, whether it's free, equal and free broadcasts, whether it's been broadcast from morning to evening, three months from January 1st to March 31st, televisions will continue to broadcast as if it's a broadcast of a single party, but no crime will be committed against these verbs, which are essentially criminal. Then we'll say that the principles of publishing are democratic and free. There's a matter of moving and combining crates. You know, there was an arrangement in Article 2 of Law 2972. Given the number of voters in nearby villages and settlements, the polling boards could unite the crates. You changed that, too. How did you change it? (For security reasons, the polls cannot be put together.) The Supreme Election Board said. You made a change in the law, and you said: "The crates can also be changed on the basis of security. " You've made another change. There's a way to determine the presidents of the Ark. As we say, political parties make the choice. The political parties gave a list for the head of the poll board, which drew lots from it; we had entered the election as a party; we had the right to give a list for the head of the polling board, and part of the polling board was determined by the lists we gave them. From this point of view of the election, it's not really a democratic choice. Why should elections be democratic? It's not just vote day. But voting in elections is only part of the right to choose and choose. Our previous co-chairs are in prison, our presidential candidate is in prison, our MPs are in prison, our mayors are in prison, our thousands are in prison. All the TVs are broadcasting against us, look, let's stop broadcasting in our favor, call any of our party friends... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0455par0409	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0454par0410	There are hundreds of hours of propaganda on television networks, not only are we allowed to answer, and then we say, "There are democratic elections in this country, MPs are freely determined, mayors are freely determined in this country. Turkey has free democratic elections. Get out of here! Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0455par0413	Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Antalya MP Cavit Bee. Here you go, Mr. Bee. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0456par0417	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, first of all, I salute you with love. As we look at what is being discussed today, it is clear that the AKP has a serious concern about the local elections, which will be held on March 31st. First, you're trying to design the Supreme Election Board, which will run this election in a sense. The Supreme Election Board consists of seven original, four alternate members, elected from the Supreme Court and the Court members. In 2019, you demand to extend the mandate of the extended members until 2020, while in 2022, those whose term of office expired until 2023. Dear friends, is there no other judge in the Supreme Election Board who can serve in the Supreme Court and the Court? Are there no other judges who have made such important decisions and who have often served on election boards in the cities where they come from who can serve on the Supreme Election Board? Now, these incumbent judges, in the elections in our country, you know that in the morning, the transformer started an election process in a cat election, and again in a referendum, at 1,400, 15. A board that has been brought to 00, and has re-organised the terms of the election at this stage, against the law, and a committee in Turkey, which for the first time considers unsealed votes valid. Now you're trying to bring an extension back to the judges on this board. Dear friends, this initiative of yours has already cast a shadow on the March 31st elections. It is already clear that you have different intentions in these elections. Dear friends, you're trying to organize the Election Board from one side, and you're trying to design it, and you're trying to manipulate the voters with different perceptions. See, a configuration was made on May 11, 2018: Tax number 7143 and the Law on Confiscation of Some Other Acquisitions. Dear friends, you did it in May. What's that date? Forty days before June 24th. If the configuration is to be made, do it earlier. Why? Because you're trying to convince that citizen who's been forced to restructure the election to take the vote. Now, the citizen couldn't pay for the configurations because there's a serious economic crisis in the country, there's a serious economic problem. No matter how many configurations you make, the citizen can only pay the first installment, the second is forced to pay the third or the third. And that's why, now, there's only a little time left in the election, and you're restructuring. So, I'm telling you, in configurations 6736 and 7020, let's get our citizens in here who can't pay their installments, and let's get them to take advantage of the configurations over and over again. Dear friends, look, you know that story about the famous Nasrettin Hoxha, when you want to cheer the poor guy up, he loses his donkey, and then he finds it; when we look at other materials, it's often, you know, it's pretty much the same kind of arrangements you're trying to bring. Dear friends, look, in 2012, you passed a whole-city law in order to include rural areas. I'd like to put aside your other intentions to pass this entire city law, and I would like to say that as a matter of fact, you've conducted an election operation in major cities, including votes from the countryside, and in that sense, there's a Metropolitan Law, which is a whole city law, and there are 30 cities in Turkey. So, thanks to you, the 1,591 city municipality has been shut down, and the Special Administration, perhaps a hundred-year-old institution in Turkey, has been shut down in 30 provinces, and 16,082 villages have lost their corporate personality thanks to you. Look, out there, in the villages that lost their corporate personality, our citizen, our peasant, is a victim. The Metropolitan Law doesn't work right, it doesn't work according to its purpose, and our citizens there are really victims, they can't get service. Look, there's a lot of trouble with livestock and agriculture. We have citizens who are unable to exercise their rights due to the Village Law. Now, at that time, a temporary substance had arrived, and you came to this day to delay that temporary matter. What was that temporary stuff? Here, in our villages turned from village to neighborhood, property tax, income tax, garbage tax would not be taken for five years before. Look, we have a choice. These five years come and go quickly. Well, now, thanks to you, it's being postponed one-on-one. Dear friends, if it weren't for the election, you wouldn't have put it off again. So, come, I say, step back from this Metropolitan Law, which has committed this wrong and has led to the animal and especially agricultural harm of our village, and give it up immediately. Dear friends, you've tried to bring forgiveness with some arrangements for the bridges. Look, here's where we have to look at what led to this forgiveness. Now, when you're forced to cross the third bridge, you're bringing amnesty to our citizens who have crossed the other two bridges and have been punished for it. Dear friends, this is happening because of you. First of all, this is the third bridge, with the do-and-work formula, which brings serious costs to a citizen's shoulder. What happened? A guarantee has been made. Now, let me tell you the first-term guarantee. 135 thousand vehicles guaranteed. How many cars passed? On average, 80 grand. Who paid the difference? The Turkish people paid, look, the Turkish people. Now, on the third bridge, a citizen who was subjected to high transit fees due to your do-and-do formula may have been forced to go through there. Now, after this obligation that you created, yes, I forgive you. You're sending messages in the election process, and you've even brought such a message-based law, that you say in your proposal that the application to the Commission was 31 March 2019, when it came to the Commission. There I said, "Look, March 31st is election day, so be ashamed of him." So on March 31st, the citizen will go to the finances and take his money and go to the chest? ▪ Fortunately, you heeded our warning, and you drew 29 Martas. Now, this shows, dear friends, a completely election-oriented arrangement. Yes, you've victimized the citizen, and we support the cancellation of these sentences in this sense, but do this: Once the law is approved, give him a month's notice, and a month's later, the citizen will get his money. You can apply until February 28th, 29 Marta. If you say so... As soon as the law comes out, let the citizen go and get it. So you think he'll forget about it in a month? Dear friends, I said this is all an election message. Look, it's the same with the zoning peace. This law you have brought... you have brought zoning peace on May 11, 2018, with a very short time before June 24th. What happened? 9 million 210 thousand people took advantage of the zoning peace, and so you influenced the citizens' votes. For that day, perhaps a zoning peace was brought to the existing buildings, yes, perhaps unknowingly built buildings and many years-old buildings took advantage of this zoning peace, but what happened? As soon as this law came out, look, in many places in Turkey, new constructions began, as if it had been done before, many buildings were built. Even the AK PARTY municipalities have statements about these things. We can't stop the labor machines." he said: "O my people! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0457par0433	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0456par0434	Dear friends, what about the condition of these newly built buildings? Is there any sort of arrangement, any indication of any of this? Now, the municipalities are throwing the ball at each other. Look, you're going to bring back another structure in the next process, and these illegal buildings will be legalized again, thanks to you. Therefore, any new activity needs to be taken care of immediately. As a final statement, the President's salary has been increased by 26 per cent, thanks to the Republican People's Party, the minimum wage -- but we have said yes -- has been raised 26 per cent, and I want to tell you from here that there are pensioners in this country who can't make a living, and they should get a 26 per cent raise; there are officers who can't make a living; and I say to them that they should get a 26 per cent raise, and I salute you all with respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0458par0438	Now, on behalf of himself, Clumsy MP Umit Dikbayır will speak. Here you go, Mr. Dikbayyr. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0459par0442	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are the President of Privatisation Administration 481 issued on December 20, 2018 and the General Directorate of Military Factorys of the National Ministry of Defence. The Department of Main Care has been announced that all production units of the workplace -- formerly the Tank Palet Factory -- have been introduced into the privatisation and programme by the private sector for the development of the factory's business efficiency and the development of new business production opportunities by providing effective and efficient use of the country's resources in the national defence industry. I'd like to give you a few insights about this: using the experience of the 50-year defense industry of the Tank Palet Factory to produce armoured vehicles from the ground up, with experience, knowledge and experience in tank modernization, the trained labor force has been registered as the most efficient business in the last ten years to be able to covet the private sector three times in the last ten years. In his sector, it's a factory between the top five in the world. The reconstruction of this factory today requires an investment of $20 billion. The formation of knowledge and experience takes at least ten years. Our pride in the factory continues to be updated by the production of storm-bus mass production, day-and-night scopes, the world's longest-resistant tank and caterpillared car pallet production, 100 per cent from zero, dismantling leopard 1 and 2 tanks and other tanks. The factory is located in the middle of the E5 and the highway on a vast land that is available for all new investments of 1,800 acres. With an investment of 500 to 700 million dollars, the production capacity of a serial Altay tank has been determined by the Defence Industry President within six months. The main production of the Altay tank by the president and the Deputy Secretary of State has been declared by the National Ministry of Defence ASFAT ASC in this factory. The factory is a strategic facility that is essential to our country's defence industry and is impossible to replace. For ten years, our country's resources have been spent on the Altay tank for its prototype alone, with over $1 billion of our country's resources, with a small investment in the Altay tank, which, as we pointed out, is the only factory in our country with the capacity and experience of mass production in six months, with an investment of between $500 and $700 million dollars and up to 100 new employees. There are allegations that it will be sold to the Ethhem Sandzak and Qatar initiative, which has no ability to produce tanks and obuses and has no capacity. While every firm or holding firm in their right mind is going to try not to lose such a factory, which is the value of a diamond in its own hands, which is the value of adding to the economy, it is not logical that such a factory, which is in its own Armed Forces and in its strategic cooperation, should be removed from nationality in the face of producing and selling to other armed forces of the world. The factory still employs 29 officers, 50 petty officers, 22 specialized sergeants, 112 officers and 714 workers under the command of one colonel. The factory's legal qualifications are the same as other battalions, regiments or brigades that serve the Turkish Armed Forces. The era of the maintenance, repair and modernisation of military-strength vehicles is contrary to the principle of the state's defence, the need to prepare for war, the Turkish Armed Forces and the National Ministry of Defence Law, and, most importantly, the privatisation Act 4046. Therefore, the privatisation of this factory has the same legal consequences as privatising a unit of Turkish Armed Forces. I repeat: Therefore, the privatisation of this factory has the same legal consequences as privatizing a unit of Turkish Armed Forces. This is a legal and strategic error that would allow our President to...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0460par0448	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0459par0449	...from misinformation and manipulation of the President of the Privatisation Administration and the National Deputy Secretary of Defense. We need to own our national factory by giving up this privatisation decision and saying that it would be more appropriate to use it in the process of tank production by collaborating and contracting with the company that received the factory's current Altay Tank Project. Look, this road, it happens, the other defense industry, will lead to the privatisation of our factories. I'd like to remind you that during the Battle of Çanakkale, Ensign Mehmet Muzaffer, our commander had to arrange a fake note to buy a truck tire for our army from a Jewish merchant. The factories of the Turkish Armed Forces must remain national and domestic. It's very important. In the second week of January, we have no doubt that any member of parliament who feels that he is a member of the law will support the motion and the proposal for research. I salute the Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0461par0453	Now on behalf of himself, Army Congressman Cemal Enginyurt. Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0462par0457	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. The minimum wage was announced two days ago, set at $2,020. That's not enough, but in today's terms, I'd like to thank the government for its support, since it's a fair price for our employees, and it's close to what we're thinking. Our workers have found a little bit of morale this winter. Only, our workers got $2,020, but it's the employer who's gonna pay for it. So no resources will come out of our government's pockets. The burden is largely riding on the employer's back. Then we must consider our employer. As a government, we must take into account our employer, who employs hundreds of workers and faces a new cost of 750 euros, along with the minimum wage being $2.020. From yesterday to today, many business owners have sought to meet the costs of Giresun in the army, and near Giresun, saying that they can't afford them, that the market is already blocked, that things aren't going well enough, that they have problems, that it's hard to afford. Then we should support our employer. What should we do? Here, our government said: I'll pay the insurance premiums for a while. It's good, but whose insurance premiums? Our government will pay the insurance premiums for the new recruits, and 300 workers will not pay the premium. So what can we do? It's a thought: 30 percent, 40 percent, we can go to an insurance premium reduction, to lower those costs.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0463par0459	Let's hope we get it up to 150.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0462par0460	Hopefully, hopefully... we heard there was a study like that today, but it must have been pulled back. I was told there would be a 150 lira price support. It could be 150, but we won't have any casualties, even if it's 300. We should go to a tax discount. We don't give any support to former business owners, but if there's a new business opening, we're funding them, we're supporting them. It's a good app for incentives. But we also need to give support to former business owners -- businesses that have been around for years -- to continue their current operation -- and to boost their morale. In return, we can support people who pay their taxes as tax cuts to people who always pay their taxes and fund their government. But most importantly, the banks are a real pain in the ass. Especially BCH interest rates. The high interest rate caused the trade not to return. The checks and bonds are being written as much as they can be written. Then what should be done? Bank interest must be lowered. I saw the ad for the Agriculture Bank today. For a hundred and fifty years, we have been supportive, he says. But today, I'll go to the Agriculture Bank and mix up the 10,000 lira credit line. It's impossible, he can't because there's a lot of trouble coming, a lot of demands and demands. There's no credit. Obstructions of the employer's loan must be removed. The loans are almost blocked in banks, creating great difficulties. These troubles need to be overcome. What if the employer doesn't get a profit to pay his employee, to cover the costs? What if we make the minimum wage $5,000? The employer who will pay for it is the employer who will pay for it. It is not possible for the state to develop without an employer, as we are not able to go anywhere by being hostile to the employer. We always call it the private sector, the private sector came alive, the private sector grew. We call it the private sector, but unfortunately the private sector can't afford these costs and many costs. Isn't it because of the unsatisfactory costs that I'm giving a 10% discount on natural gas and electricity? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0464par0467	Let's complete it, Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0462par0468	But it's not enough. Indeed, our employers are in great distress. It's considered, it's discussed, it's discussed, it's said, but let's get on with it, because as time goes on, our employers are going to announce concordato, bankruptcy's going up, shutters are going down. We need to get ahead of this so our workers can get their wages in order, so that people who smile at $2.020 can see it in their pockets. Many companies can't pay their employees. He calls me every day from Karabuk, from Mardin, saying: "We are working on the construction of the company, and they have not paid us. " Why can't this company pay? The firm's in trouble. I think these things need to be fixed. Thank you for the support for the minimum wage. He also says we should take care of our employer, congratulate you on your new year's best wishes, give you all our respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0464par0471	Thank you. Dear friends, this completes the conversation on chapter two. Now we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. It's half a question, half an answer. I'm starting the clocks for questions. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0465par0476	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I asked the President of the Commission during the last period of questioning, and I believe he answered a question about zoning pardon. Mr. President, in the last two hours, in three hours, have you been able to get an answer? Look, the House has passed a law, and the relevant matter has passed, and I was wondering if you could give us a clearer answer beyond that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0466par0478	Mr. President, I'm waiting for that answer, too. People are asking if the zoning pardon will extend or not?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0467par0479	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0468par0480	Thank you, Mayor. Our engineers who worked on important and critical projects for Turkey in ASELSAN and TAI have recently been branded by a newly established defence industry in the Netherlands, taking nearly 100 of our engineers to the Netherlands and transferred them. Four to five times their current salary, they paid their house rent, and they started it with the promise to contribute to their children's adaptation process. We're dealing with a massive brain drain. We can't stop our engineers from leaving. Also, are our engineers working on these critical projects moving their information here, their key security information for our defense industry? Why isn't there a contract with these engineers not to leave until the project's over? Why haven't pay conditions been improved? The cost of this brain migration is high in all areas. While ASELSAN and TAI are part of the world's 500 best turnover defense industry, how can we not prevent this foreign-based operation? Thank you, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0469par0483	Mr. Lightning... no. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0470par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. In the past 15 years, there have been 455 schools in Kahramanmarash, 5,530 classrooms, 34 pensions, 11 new hospital buildings of 7.716, 2 mouth and dental centers, 43 TSM and ASM, 24 bridges, 11 tunnels, 5 dams, 3 ponds, 3 major watering plants, 4 major decontamination plants, 1 major decontamination and decontamination plant, 1 million households' electricity production, 240km, 146km, 146km, 144 km, BSK, 1.905 km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, 2km, aspham, and sell. The heromarash is focused on 2023 vision.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0469par0487	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0471par0488	I'm asking the Justice Department: One: Turkey ranks 101st among 113 countries on the rule of law. This undermines Turkey's legal security and reputation, while also damaging our development. What measures do you intend to take to correct this situation? Two, our deputy Eren Erdem has been under arrest for a long time. What's the reason he's not released, even though there's no possibility of escape? Three, our deputy Eren Erdem is being held in a one-man isolation chamber. Why is that? Why aren't you given any of the imprisoned friends he knows? Four: 144 journalists are under arrest, according to the Union of Journalists of Turkey. Do you have any work to reduce the number of arrested journalists and reassure journalists? Five: Courts often order a gag order. Will you do a study to reduce it? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0472par0495	Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0473par0496	The industry of Hatay (Hatay), which has not been insisted on within the 5th area of encouragement, has shifted to the province of Osmaniye. The Alexanderun-Fourways-Erzin region is a heavy industrial and port area, and the metas that come to these ports are being transported to Osmaniye region. Since highways are subject to a charge, road traffic is very busy and dangerous with trucks because the highway is not used, life and property is threatened. The price of the highway also poses a heavy cost burden to the industrial sector. Turning the highway between Osmaniye-Hatay into environmental road status will reduce the intensity of industrial traffic, preventing traffic accidents, serious contributions to transport and logistics companies and the heavy industrial sector during this economic crisis will help improve the country. It is the demand of industry, logistics sector and locals to ensure that the highway leading from Alexanderun district to the Kazene to the Tollboots of Erzin County is free, just as 64 km of the Adana-Ceyhan road is free. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0474par0499	Mr. Sullu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0475par0500	Law 6360 has been changed to the 6th article of the law on taxes, tuition, exclusion periods, and tariffs of accession, provided with neighborhood status in the areas of the district. With this clause, in a sense, in the villages where we've established neighborhood status, our citizens, who are supposedly subject to the laws of the urban municipalities, are scheduled to be eliminated as election investments for a while longer, but our citizens in the villages need basic vital services such as water, the unresolved road, when they depend on their private administrations. The citizen is rightly awaiting service, but with the closing of the state's private administrations, the municipality, which must take services to neighborhoods hundreds of miles away from it, does not have the resources to provide these services. Different budget opportunities need to be created. Is it considered to make new regulations in the Law on Paying General Budget Tax revenues to County Special Administrations 5779 and municipalities? Is there also a way to make arrangements to create new sources of income in the City's Economic Development Law?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0476par0503	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0477par0504	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the current legal regulation, the charges against taxpayers who have been identified as irregularities are being filed against the state prosecutors of the Republic according to the Tax Code, or criminal charges are being filed against the taxpayers. In the 9th article of the law, which we are currently discussing, according to the 5th joke, the cases will be terminated. Will the charges against the taxpayers in this scope be judged as part of the 9th article (5)? What situation will these taxpayers face when they pay their debts, tax debts, that are born of this impropriety? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0478par0508	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0479par0509	Thank you, Mr. President. The minimum wage for millions of employees has been announced. The minimum wage in 2019 was set to be $2.020, with an increase of 417 TL. I wish good luck to our fellow workers and employers who value our country with hard work and hard work. In particular, it was welcomed by our beloved nation that one more year of regional employment incentives were extended, that no VATs would be taken in the new machine equipment purchases, that the public would pay for insurance and tax costs for the first time in 2019-2020, and that by New Year's, 10 per cent reduction in housing at electricity and natural gas prices would be paid by the state. I thank Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, our President, and wish the decisions that have been made to be good for our nation, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0480par0514	Thank you. Mr. Commissioner, here's your answer.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0516	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0482par0517	Here comes the answer.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0518	Sir? What answer?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0482par0519	Will it grow or not? Did he get the answer?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0520	No, I'll just answer a compilation. The amendments to Article 9 (P.S.) of Article 67 of the Constitution shall not be implemented in the elections in a year's time since its implementation. There was a question in the matter that this proposal didn't seem to fit this clause. The regulation that is being carried out is not related to the Election Law. The Supreme Election Board of 7062 envisions a change in the Law on the Organization and its Tasks. The two are different laws, so there is no violation of the Constitution. Mr. President, we'll respond to the others in writing.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0483par0523	Mr. President, I asked a clear question.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0524	Oh, you asked an obvious question. Sure, I'll answer that. I didn't say I believed it, I said it in my opinion; they're different things.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0483par0526	Different how?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0527	As a result, in the arrangement we made in May, we authorized the Council of Ministers to apply for an extension of the deadline and the extension of the payments, and they can extend it for up to a year. They can make different applications in this arrangement that we have made; they may not go to an extension in the application period without an extension, but they can give a period of payment, including the part about the new arrangement that we have made. The President is in charge of this matter.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0483par0528	Does the law answer that, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0481par0529	And I'll tell you about the trial in these tax fines, it's stopping the proceedings that started with the increase of the Matrah and the ones that didn't pay. The cases mentioned here are tax cases and are terminated in the event of payment. I've answered that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0484par0531	Mr. President, there's time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0485par0532	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0486par0533	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, our tradesman has been in trouble lately. In Gaziantep, our barber shop is having a harder time. There are a lot of unauthorized and unlicensed studies, particularly the unlicensed workplaces of Syrian guests, at a barber shop that should be served under medical conditions. There are hundreds of them in this business. We invite the authorities on duty to make the necessary arrangements for these unlicensed businesses, both at the risk of infecting them and who are trying to bring home the bread with dignity. We expect this injustice to be corrected. Like Gaziantep, I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0485par0535	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0487par0536	Thank you, Mr. President. Some of our valued lawmakers have expressed their appreciation and satisfaction that the minimum wage has been raised to 2.020 TL. Well, dear friends, isn't it a pity you're paid $20,000? You're going to thank $2,020, you're going to get $17,000, $18,000, 20 grand, and you're going to put it in your pocket. Do you guys have a conscience?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0488par0538	Give to the worker, and give to the worker! Forgive me, brother Mahmoud!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0489par0539	If you're not going to buy it, donate it to minimum wage.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0487par0540	A society with a conscience needs to rebel for $2,020. You'll thank the citizen for $2.020. The one with a conscience, the one with morals, must rebel against it. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0490par0543	Brother Mahmoud, let's donate together, come!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0491par0544	Mr. President, I've been told that there's a moral or something, and I'd like to answer.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0492par0545	Mr. Atay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0493par0546	Mr. President, yesterday in Gaziantep, a group of 30 Syrian brothers from Gaziantep, taunting our two young people in front of their homes, attacked two brothers with a knife, and a 23-year-old boy, Necati Bincı, was severely injured by a slit throat, and is now in intensive care. In the neighborhood where it happened, the people got all worked up. Things could get a lot worse at any moment. The Syrian problem is now beyond the reach of the people of Gaziantep. We believe that the legal arrangements must be made and sent safely to the Syrian lands. We call upon our Minister of Interior to do the necessary work on this, and we call upon the people of Gaziantep to be discreet.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0494par0548	Mr. President, may I have your word?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0495par0549	Mr. Karaman...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0496par0550	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers were among the top 10 disasters in the history of the world, when Erzincan's massive earthquake occurred eighty-nine years ago at this time in 1939. So much so that the prisoners who survived Erzincan Prison after the earthquake were trying to rescue people from the rubble from morning until evening. In the evening hours, the prisoners who participated in the relief work met fully in front of the prosecutor. The answer of a prisoner who asked the prosecutor at the time: "What is missing on such a day will not only escape from prison, but from public service, from helping your brother, from being human. This is the greatest of lows, and none of us, even the killer, could be more guilty than such a murder. The prisoners who were in the prisons that were destroyed by the earthquake and helped with the removal of the debris...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0495par0553	Thank you. Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0497par0555	Mr. President, our Commissioner has just agreed that... look, we have five days until the zoning pardon law is over, Mr. President, five days. We're making a law, we're making an additional law, and right now our Parliament doesn't know if this law is going to go on and on and on, and our Commissioner said: "The partial may also go on and on and on and on and on and on. Mr. President, we shouldn't put our House in this position. Indeed, this is a great disrespect to the House, a great disrespect to our nation. It's disrespectful to conduct, but I'd say the House shouldn't allow that kind of disrespect.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0495par0557	Mr. Aygun...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0498par0558	City-owned farm-skilled movers are hired by our farmers. However, our farmers are having difficulty paying rent payments from 2018 due to the economic hardship in Turkey. That's why the municipalities are pouring in petitions. Our farmers say the installments of the year 2018 increased by 45 per cent compared to the previous year. You know, this year, our farmers couldn't even afford access to the produce from the farm they rented. Therefore, we can make sure that the rent increases are updated by the Agricultural Purpose Price Index instead of the Producing Price Index. That's what we owe the farmers. We must listen to the cries of the farmers who feed us, or the plague will be heavy for all of us. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0499par0561	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0500par0564	Mr. President, Mr. Tanal said we thank you for the minimum wage, the $2.020 lira, and he strongly condemned us for it. Officials of many trade unions in Turkey, particularly Turkey, have expressed that $2,020, as I said, is the right price for today, even if it's not enough. And I said, "Thank you, even if that's not enough." But 600 lawmakers get paid $17,000, just to play with turbines, to raise their own salary here and send greetings to workers, to those 600 people who have already been insulted on the street, to start eating in restaurants. He was a person of whom I truly respect and respect, but because of his attitude, I really resent him.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0501par0567	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0502par0568	Mr. Secalioglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0501par0570	Mr. President, the minimum wage was announced yesterday. We made a motion to draw attention to minimum wage. It's coming out -- there's a number that we've been talking about since a few months ago, and we've even pronounced $2.020 -- and I said thank you yesterday. Today, Metanet Çulhaoğlu, our Adana Mebus, thanked us. So when he told the National Movement Party that he was going to pick on Mr. Cemal, he also picked on his ally. So we said thank you, and we know it's not enough, but we find it valuable that the difference of 26 percent inflation is reflected in minimum wage, because there was 1,500 liras, 1,600 liras, 1,700 liras, 1,800 liras.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0502par0572	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0501par0573	Of course, the heart desires more, but $2.020 is a will to reflect inflation in these conditions, it's a sacrifice. We find it precious, thank you for that. This thank-you is not supposed to be a victim of populism. It's also necessary to maintain political courtesy. Let's reproach Mr. Mahmut and invite him for a little courtesy. Because I don't find it right to be accused of such morality, conscience, or indecency, or indecency, both for my own sake and for any of our mebuses in the House. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0576	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0578	Guys, wait a minute... Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0580	I was just getting word from the clerk's office, and he said...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0505par0581	You insult the MPs! Talk about what?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0582	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0583	He also used my name to play for the condemned Tanal bleachers. He condemned me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0585	Mr. Tanal, I'll consider it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0586	I'd like to take the stand for bullying according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0506par0587	He calls us immoral, and he accuses you and us of immorality.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0588	Mr. Tanal, okay, I'll assess it, not now.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0589	When are you going to evaluate it?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0590	That's what it says, if you look at the Civil Code 69. The president's...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0591	Mr. President, look, it's neither religious nor moral nor legal...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0592	Guys, I'm asking questions. Please, Mr. Tanal, you have been promised to ask questions; look, you see where we're coming from.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0594	Look, Mr. President, in Germany, a congressman's salary is three times the minimum wage, 15 times the minimum salary in Turkey. What's justice in that, what's law in that?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0596	No, I didn't promise you, I didn't promise you that right now.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0507par0597	Mr. Tanal, you offered $2,200.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0503par0598	Look, when you get your hands on the money, put your hands in the air. If there's friendship, there's justice, there's religion, there's faith, minimum wage should be at least $4,000.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0602	Talks on chapter two are complete. Now, the items in the second chapter, if there are any, I'm going to submit them to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause. There are three motions on the 7th article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 7 of the Law Proposal to Change Some Laws by Highway 38, in the following way. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan Murat Emir The first sentence of Article 16 of Article 6362, dated 7- 6/12/2012 and the third sentence of Article 16 of Capital Market Law, has been changed in the following way and the third sentence has been abolished. At least five hundred and fifty co-ops, or co-ops, which have a share of at least five hundred and fifty co-ops, have control of cooperative troops or cooperative central units, and have at least fifty million Turkish liras per year sold. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0508par0614	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0504par0615	Ankara MP Murat Amir to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0618	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to start by stressing a mistake made by the speakers of the first party, particularly Mr. Akbasoglu. Every time they say, "Dictators don't come by choice." We're coming with the election, Recep Erdogan comes with the election, so you can't call him "diktator." That's a big mistake, let's fix it right now. All dictators come by choice, all dictators; Hitler comes by choice, Mussolini comes by choice, Gaddafi is chosen, Assad is chosen, whoever is.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0510par0620	What do the voters think?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0621	So, do dictators go to elections sometimes? Yeah, they go to elections, they make choices sometimes, but look, it's the fact that dictators don't go from power in fair, equal, democratic elections.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0511par0622	You can't send it. For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0623	So it's the quality of elections that make a government democratic, which makes it democratic.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0511par0624	We're taking every choice, you're not getting it; take the election and let's go.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0625	Well, let's see how the elections are held in Turkey: elections are held under heavy fraud in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0511par0627	No way! For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0628	The primary perpetrator is the Supreme Election Board. Since the Supreme Election Board massacred Turkey's electoral law, today's ruling is on the road to extending the mandate of the High Election Board members.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0511par0629	Why don't you ask Muharrem Encel, who's he calling a didictator?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0630	Political power is extremely satisfied with the High Election Board, and he needs it because the High Election Board has done what it needs to do in the referendum and in the next election, and has opened its way for power to become the first party.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0511par0631	Get out of here! What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0632	That's why he can't give up. Now, why do you need this law, why do you extend it, and it's like, you know, six members are going to leave, so there's no experience, there's no saved information. But it's impossible to agree with that because it already has an institutional structure. There are judges already on duty. We can never accept that. Look, the Supreme Election Board has opened the way for the unsealed election. So he broke both his law and his own decisions before and violated his own convictions and led the referendum to a heavy doubt with unsealed elections.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0512par0635	He always made the same decision. There are always similar decisions, all elections.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0636	And then, look, it also opened the way for a severe inequality by exclusing the president -- the President himself -- from the election bans. I remember Mr. Akbasoglu from the Constitutional Commission. The president, the Prime Minister, what are we doing? We bring in the Prime Minister, we combine him with the President. Look, the Prime Minister, the ministers and the MPs are subject to election bans. No, the President isn't. He said. Of course, that's the main reason why the President can't give up this High Election Board. Now, there is the final joke of Article 67 of the Constitution. You all know, in fact, the changes in election laws come into effect in a year. I mean, there's no way that the change we're making is going into effect over a year ago, but who's going to take care of it? The Supreme Election Board will look again. Well, does the Supreme Election Board say that my term of office should not be extended? He can't, because they're used to those high months, those office cars, those positions. Therefore, there's a serious constitutional violation here. A violation of the end is a serious violation of the Constitution. Now, we have a president who instructs the courts, who scolds people from the rally squares, who calls the prosecutors to duty, who punishes the politicians he doesn't like, and who insults the politicians he doesn't like, and who does what the president says, completely dependently, and unfortunately, the courts are under a heavy burden. Now, when we look from here, we can't possibly believe that the High Election Board will run a fair election, that it will run a democratic election, that it will run an equal election.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0513par0641	You've already accepted defeat.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0642	Therefore, it is very wrong that this High Election Board is being extended its mandate. There's another point. Look, it's said that half of these members are going to be changing, so why are they extended from 2022 to 2023? If so, will there be general and local elections in 2022, 2023, and early 2024, and will we not have the same problems again? We'll live. So, if that's the reason, if that's a rational, rational reason, then their mandate should be extended shorter. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I finish my sentence?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0514par0646	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0647	I mean, why do we give these people the length of time to do such a long task to the current members of the Supreme Election Board?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0515par0648	It's not long, it's over a year.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0509par0649	Because what you want to do is actually a mutual cooperation. The Palace and the High Election Council are in a partnership, and in the event of this partnership, unfortunately, Turkey's elections are held under a heavy shadow. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0516par0652	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0517par0653	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0516par0654	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, twice, in reference to my name, he's obviously made some sort of fuss about it, even though it's not relevant, but I'm going to make a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0517par0656	Yes, make a statement in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0516par0659	Now, of course, the minimum salary of $1.603 went up to $2.020, 417 is a net increase, 26 percent. In 2019, inflation figures are actually 15 per cent of the population, and for the first time, there has been a truly good arrangement in all directions, and for the first time, workers, employers, state, all sides are happily welcomed within the consensual. Good luck to our workers, our employees. $113 in 2002, now $382, and 3.4 times the actual minimum wage on the dollar. I'm putting it together, Mr. President, just one minute...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0517par0662	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0516par0663	Thank you. Yes, as for other matters, I think I'm appealing to our friends to discuss who the dictator is, according to the latest statements by Mr. Ozturk Yilmaz. And secondly, you've been eaten by Mr Muharrem Encel, one of your own friends. You're out, you're out. You're out, you've been eaten, so there's no need to say anything more than that, for God's sake! I see something else, and if Aleppo is there, there's no excuse for success, and on March 31st, our nation's gratitude will be won by the will of God, I thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0518par0667	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0519par0668	Mr. Secalioglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0518par0669	We've expressed our concerns about the Supreme Election Board, for the record. Although the time has come to change in the YSK, I believe the Turkish judiciary for our members of the High Election Board, which has been extended and referred to their experiences, has been blamed. I think that lack of confidence in this judgment will bring disgrace to the judiciary. We say we don't support this Kabul business, which will inspire confidence in our electoral system, our electoral system, everything, if it is feared that the election will be marred because of the emptiness of the people with their experience, instead of six of our fellow officials. But in this process, the reason why I'm giving it to you is because we're normally going to support this bag of legislation, we're going to raise our hand for the vote, the color of our renown, but we need to be seen because we've raised a lot of experienced lawmen, we've employed all sorts of positions, we don't find the extension right, we're worried the election won't be healthy, we're asking the judiciary to be respected and insecure; we want it to be known, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0519par0671	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0520par0673	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, I said this minimum wage issue today, and I said: last year it was $424, minimum wage, now it's $380; $42 stole from people's pockets. Now, the ruling party is taking this example from 2002, and it says that it came from here in 2002. It says that it came from there. The situation there was that it could get a minimum wage of 5.7 gold pieces in 2002, and now, as of 2018, it's getting 4.7 quarters of gold.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0521par0676	But look at the gold prices of the world.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0520par0677	Now, there's a new one. Wait a minute... Sir, I'm telling you your 16 years of work, and we'll tell you that, and it doesn't change.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0521par0679	You can't make those calculations based on oil and gold!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0520par0680	After all, the AK PARTY owes every minimum wage 192 gold pieces for 16 years of loss. Pay your debt, you have to pay every minimum wage of 192 gold pieces. (CHP cheers) Right, if there's justice, that's the way it is. You can't make it look right to people by playing with numbers, bending and bending. Two: I said it, and you can call Kemal Bey a dictator. Look, do I object? Sir, a congressman said so. Friends, we've told you a hundred and fifty times, here at the Presidential Court -- it's been taken into custody -- the vice president who ran the House was part of your party, and he acknowledged and confirmed that the dictator was a political critic. Don't dwell on it. Some of you may have called the leaders before Recep Erdoğan and Kemal Bey a dictator. What matters is how society looks at those leaders here. We were not defeated in the elections. We didn't say Mr. Akbasoglu, we didn't say we weren't hurt. Where did that come from? But we do realize that the AK PARTY has not recently been held on equal terms in Turkey, and that we are fighting with the state, with the government, with the governor, with our parliamentary candidates, but you'll see, it's going to be different on March 31st. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0522par0685	Friends, I submit the motion to your votes...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0523par0686	A defeated wrestler is not satisfied with wrestling!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0524par0687	Mr. President, Mr. Akbasoglu said I was picking on my name.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0522par0688	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Mr. Murat Emir and his friends' motion I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0525par0694	Mr. Akbasoglu teased me that I was teasing him, and I want to speak according to 69.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0526par0695	Don't be coy. I didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0525par0696	No, it's a tease.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0527par0697	I've forgotten what's going on. I'll see what's going on, Mr. Emir, after that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0525par0698	No, the heat...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0527par0699	Let me see, we've got a lot of work to do, we've got time.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0525par0700	But it's in the right place, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0527par0701	I'll take a look. I'll consider it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0525par0702	He said I was teasing him, he gave me my name. He spoke out of turn. He said, I'll add that.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0528par0703	Look at the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0527par0704	I'll look into it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I would like to request and propose that the "result of the statement " taken out of the first article of Article 7 of the Law to change the main number (2/1491) of the Highways Traffic Law and some Laws. Ayhan Erel Yavuz Yekalioğlu Fahrettin Yoşış Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0529par0713	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0527par0714	Adana MP Ismail Konçuk to discuss the motion. Here you go, Mr. Concubine.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0717	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Of course, you're angry with criticism from time to time here, but you can't miss the criticism. When I told you, my heart was not content with my silence. My brother, Umit, spoke of the tank and palette factory here in Sakarya. How can something like this be accepted? Imagine, strategically speaking, a factory owned by the Turkish Armed Forces, which produces all national production, makes military materials, is privatised and leased 25 years ago. Now, what could be the point here? Now, you're saying that we're nationalists. You don't think we're being asked to sell or rent a factory that's producing for countries that we're even in military cooperation with, without any grounds, so if there's a reason for it, do the MPs have any information here, whether you want to sell it or not? You don't think we're being asked to give it to them? We wish you the best. Now, you've moved away from the community. We say, "You're leaving the people." Here, you're getting away from the Sakaryan. A thousand people work there, a thousand people. A thousand people eat bread from this factory in Sakaryah. I mean, there's a national side, but there's a human dimension. Dear lawmakers, when you're privatizing, you have to consider the human size of the work, so you have to think about which stones that rock will activate, whether it will cause the landslide as you roll a stone down the hill. Of course, you're not responsible, Mr. President 481. He made such an arrangement of his own free will, with the decree of Lu. I don't think you're in any position to argue with that, but here's what the Clumsy will have to answer for tomorrow. A thousand people eat bread there, and the merchant in Sakarya is making a living out of the profits of these people. I'm not saying you're renting out such an important business, it's called chasing.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0531par0720	Pesquitos, acolytes...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0721	It's clearly called making a scene. The military-owned palette and tank factory has been directly drawn by the presidential decree. On behalf of our citizens, I'd like to express my reproach here on behalf of the Sakaryan. Dear lawmakers, this is a proposal of the law, a bill of 12 articles, a pre-election law proposal, a pre-election proposal. Now, Mr. Speaker went to Istanbul last year, met with NGOs, and explained that such a legal arrangement could be made there -- before the law was passed. Of course, I wish Buli Yıldırım hadn't explained it. So the Istanbul mayor's candidacy is a person called Bali Yıldırım, but it is not in line with the fact that he has announced an arrangement that concerns 310,000 people in Istanbul. But we have to ask here. Okay, we forgive this, we support it, forgive it, we find it right as a good party. But we ask: Where have you been since 2016? I swear, you guys are really good at singing. So you need to celebrate?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0532par0723	Don't say that. Don't say that much. Don't say that either.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0724	But it's the right thing to do.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0532par0725	Don't say it, don't say it, take that side back.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0726	You know why he's so cunning? I mean, you play for yourself, you play for yourself. Now, this arrangement was made in 2016. This arrangement... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0533par0729	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0534par0730	Did you have to?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0731	I didn't have to.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0534par0732	She's had a hard time, that's for sure. People don't know what's ethical.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0535par0733	Why don't you answer the tank factory?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0530par0734	Yeah, you're the one who punished this 310 thousand people, you're the one who made this arrangement, you're responsible, and now you're saying, "We made a mistake. We're making up for this mistake in two years. You've upset people for two years. Now, when you can carry the burden of this arrangement -- I'm sorry to say -- you're saying that you're doing something rashly right. It's true today, but what's important is that the politician can think about the consequences of his arrangement. It's called state-of-the-art. You'll have vision, the government is governed by vision, and unfortunately, you don't have that vision. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] By the way, I'm celebrating your New Year's Eve. I call upon the great God to do good to our land, to our nation. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0536par0739	It's your new year. We're giving you back your new year.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0537par0740	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The first sentence of Article 16 of Law 6362, replaced with Article 7 of Law Proposal 38, which is currently in session, states: "We propose and propose that the declaration be added by single or collectively after the declaration of the number of cooperatives be added to the first sentence of Article 16 of Law No. 38. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0538par0749	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0539par0750	Motive...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0537par0751	We're reading the motive. The nature of the cooperative units involved in the matter has been cleared. I submit to your votes the commission's motion for commendation: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 7th Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 7 is accepted. Now there are three motions on the 8th article, two of which are the same property. The first two motions I'm going to read are the same, so I'm going to read them and then I'm going to process them together. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose that Article 8 of the Law Proposal 38 be removed from the proposal of the law. Kemal Peköz Nuran İmir Şevin Coşkun Murat Çepni Ömer Faruk Gergerlioğlu Garo Paylan The signatures of the other motion are: Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan Does the Commission participate in the same motions?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0540par0772	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0537par0773	Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan will speak on the same motions. Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0776	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, the polls aren't going well, are they?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0542par0779	It's going very well.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0780	Polls aren't going well, dear friends, you've brought such an election investment law. Dear friends, look at the bag of law, it's usually an election-investment law, and in private it's the Burili Thunder Act. Mr. Bakili Yıldırım started the campaign when he was elected Speaker. What are we gonna do? We forgive the punishments for the bridge. What else? A zoning pardon in Bosphorus. What else? There's no increase in traffic tickets. It's been started by Binali Yıldırım, my friends. Polls aren't going well, you're bringing election investment laws in a state of panic, but the crisis is big friends, and the hole is big, and the hole in a citizen's pocket is growing every day and on March 31st, I think our citizen will give the answer. Look, what happens when a panic law comes in under these circumstances? Mr. Commissioner will call us on Friday night. Friends, we're meeting on Monday. What are we meeting for? We'll see about Monday. So what did we see? Pardons, pardons, tax pardons, zoning pardons. Within 12 hours, the Commission met, and the clauses passed. Look, have any of you guys seen the bidder today?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0543par0783	Here, here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0784	I didn't see Mehmet Mushan, the bidder, in the General Assembly. Look, the bidder Mehmet Mush came to the Commission, he argued; he's not in the General Assembly. Dear friends, can such a thing happen? Mehmet Mush, who makes an offer, doesn't come and claim his offer in Parliament. Dear friends, the zoning pardon law expires on March 31st. I've asked the Commissioner 10 times in the Commission, I've asked Mehmet Mush. I've asked him 20 times, and I've asked him over and over again. Look, as representatives of the nation, we don't know how long it lasts, folks. It's a two-day law. The President will sign on December 29th, and he is out of time on the 31st. But we know that won't happen. Is it going to get any longer? The commissioner says it can grow, it can grow, it can grow, it may not.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0544par0786	That's a good answer.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0545par0787	We'll just have to wait and see.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0788	I mean, in these circumstances, we're making law as Congress, people. This is a great disrespect to the House, and none of us should accept that disrespect. Dear friends, when it comes to the 8th article, what does it say: all banks can make bonds in the form of capital, and turn out accession banks. But it's not innocent at all, because why? We know what's been done. Dear friends, the bonds were exported to 3 public banks -- Vakfbank, Halkbank, Eximbank -- and were transferred to 11 quadrillion liras. From where, from where, friends? It's from the unemployment fund. So 11 quadrillion pounds of the worker's money was transferred from the unemployed to the public bank. Now, this substance says the same thing. Participants banks will also issue bonds in the form of capital. We said: where's the source? We'll see. Our commissioner says. Mr. Mehmet Mush: Maybe they'll find money abroad. He says. But we know very well that the Foundation's Participation and Agriculture, you'll see, friends, it's not going to be more than forty days later, it's going to be transferred from the unemployment fund. Well, I'm not okay with that, and I'm sure the workers who follow us don't either. Because we've got millions of unemployed people, and that number's going to go up, folks. The unemployment benefit fund is being transferred into public banks as capital, while it should be used for the benefit of the job, for the benefit of the workers. Neither our citizens nor their deputies should accept such a thing, my friends. Together we must say no to this law, I make this call. Look, the group vice president says, "Friends, we've increased the unemployment, the workers' money, the minimum wage." What about friends, how much is the hunger limit, I ask you? Two thousand liras, my friends. The hunger limit is two thousand liras today. So the workers, a family of four, only the kitchen costs $2,000, friends, to buy enough food, should spend $2,000. What's left? Our brothers and sisters are left with $20 a day, so we don't have a dollar a day.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0546par0792	That's wrong!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0793	What's he gonna do with 20 lira? He'll pay the rent, provide his education, give his kid an allowance, get his food, get his clothes. Brothers and sisters, you're entitled to 20 liras after the kitchen expenses, cash it, cash it. They've been gracious, gentlemen, and they've rewarded you with the price of misery. One cup of tea, one bagel account, the President, and the point we came up with 16 years later, we're in one tea, one bagel account, guys. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me one more moment, I'll tell you one more thing, no more promises.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0547par0796	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0797	Mr. President, I'll talk to him about the tax pardon in a couple of minutes. Mr. Mehmet Simsek came to our Commission four years ago and said: "We are bringing a tax pardon, and he will not come again. Are you sure Mehmet Simsek?" No, he said, "Repent, he won't come again." Tax pardon came, passed, Naci Ağbal became Minister, Naci Ağbal came, and said: "We have brought a tax pardon, and he will not come again. Are you sure Naci Ağbal?" Naci Agbal brought 4 tax pardons, my friends, 4. Berat became Minister of the Colonel. He said, "There will be no tax pardon." He said, "There are no more than forty, and he came here with a tax pardon." We've got six tax pardons in four years, friends, and every tax pardon gives birth to new tax pardons, corrupting tax ethics, my friends. You can't tell the worker, you can't tell the poor. Dear friends, with tax pardons, zoning pardons, we can't run this country like this. What we need to do is do structural reforms, and, unfortunately, I'm ashamed to say, in four years this Parliament hasn't done a single structural reform. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0548par0802	Mr. President, I'm here, for your information. Mr. Paylan asked about me, he couldn't see me.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0549par0803	Mr. Mush is here.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0541par0804	Welcome Mr. Mush!
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0549par0805	On the same motions, İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Bachelor.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0550par0808	Mr. President, dear friends, I salute you all again. This article changes the 61st article of Capital Market Law 6362 and allows the accession banks to export rent certificates, such as other banks, removing obstacles stemming from the law. My dear friends, the vast majority of this package meets the President's needs, which is to overcome your difficulties in Istanbul. Why? Because the polls are going bad. But the markets are going bad, too. This is not the substance of Mr. Bali Yıldırım, it is the substance of the Treasury and the Finance Minister, Mr. Colonel. Dear friends, recently the general manager of a public bank -- I say, General Manager Emin Ozcan of the Foundation -- explained that our banking sector, or rather our financial sector, is the size of a European Bank; capital markets are like premature babies. The entire size is 400 billion liras and the entire economy's burden is above public banks, and private banks don't give loans. You've abused public banks so much that you've given out loans, even though it's so unrelated, that at the end, $1 billion and $100 million has been loaned to Demirören to buy the Doğan Media Group. Public banks are in terrible shape. In fact, not just public banks, but there is a serious problem in the financial sector in Turkey as expressed by Mr. General Manager. What's the problem? How do we know that? My dear friends because of the debts. Turkey owes $460 billion to the outside of Turkey, let alone its debts. The $200 billion must be paid in the short term.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0551par0812	Not 200, 95 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0550par0813	That kind of money doesn't exist, I'm afraid. How do we know it's gone? We know from the need for debt. Mr. Secretary tells the story of dust pink, he says: "We exported dollars." There was a strange demand, five times as much. How did it come? A while ago, you received ten years' dues and five percent interest money from five years' dues and 7.5 percent of the time. No; change the dollars from the inside; change the dollars. Of course not to the citizen you say -- he didn't change the dollar -- and now, at 4 percent, the bank collects money from the inside with the television ads, and there's no money coming back. I don't know where the money's coming from. Big trouble. You make a pardon, it's worth 70 billion, it can pay 10 billion. No, no, no money. Because you misdirected. Because you dragged Turkey into a crisis. It's not just a foreign currency crisis. This crisis is going from real sector to financial sector. Now, you're doing the most dangerous work; you're interfering with the financial sector, the banking sector. You're not just going to take advantage of the unemployment fund, you're going to involve the government, the central bank. What did you do before? You did this, and it never escaped anyone's attention. You know the business of VDMKs, my dear friends. They've turned troubled loans into valuable paper, they've gone and replaced them with bonds issued by the State Development and Investment Bank, they've cleaned them up, they're holding those bonds now. That's exactly what the accession banks are going to do. They'll take it to the Central Bank. They'll say, "Give money for it." He's heading this way. These are very dangerous jobs, my dear friends. These derivative papers, dirty, infected papers, the crisis in America in 2008, and the wave that is still reflected in us, we can't wake up, we can't wake up from here. Now these dirty papers are being helped. And you know what you do? And the banks of participation in this dirty paper business... What are turnout banks, dear friends? Basically, it's for people who don't care about interest. Now, he said he's gonna get it from some unemployment fund or something... it's not! There are people who don't take money to normal banks, even if it's a government bank because religious people still have interest. You're taking these accession banks off so they can get these papers. My dear friends, I will say one thing, but don't be angry: you are, in fact, a project of incorporating this geography of financial capitalism, Muslim countries, Muslim peoples into these markets. That's what you do. Astonishing Karaman has been telling me over the years how it's not an interest rate, and you've come out as a product. Now you're including people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But Turkey will sink from this, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0552par0821	Most of the information is wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0553par0822	We're against capitalism.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0554par0823	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the subsidiary of Law Proposal 38 shall be replaced in the form of a cellphone user, which is included in the sixth joke added to Article 61 of Law No.8 of the current law. Özlem Rich Mehmet Doğan Kubat Ramazan Can Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0555par0832	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0556par0833	Motive...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0554par0834	There's no demand on the motion. I'm having it read. Reason: As part of the article, a technical arrangement for accession banks is made concerning the export of a rent certificate. I submit the motion to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 8th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 8th article has been accepted. There are two motions on the 9th article, which I will carry out with me. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 9 of the Law Proposal be removed from the proposal text of the 38th Amendment to the Interstate Law and some Laws. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu The signatures of the other motion are: Yavuz Zekilioğlu Ayhan Erel İsmail Konçuk Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0557par0853	We disagree, Mr. President. On the same grounds, İstanbul MP İbrahim Kaboğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0558par0857	Mr. President, the Court, the valued lawmakers, should have been called the following, it would have been appropriate if the Supreme Election Board had spoken about the Law on Organizations and Missions and the Law on Change in Some Laws. This clause is so important that most of the speakers spoke about it. Yeah, we're in front of a bag of laws, but it's not just a bag of laws, it's a bag after midnight law. However, when we examine each item, no substance reflects the content that a law clause should reflect. This is not only in terms of the Constitution of 1982 but also in terms of the amendment to Law 6771. Now, in January 2020, 2023 instead of those of the members of the Supreme Election Board who would have ended their mission in 2019, instead of the ones who would have ended their duties in 2023, and now, if they had been asked, they wouldn't have gone to 2023, whereas in 2023, they would have had the same operation again. In that sense, there's no way to understand why. Mr. President, he just tried to explain that the end of the Constitutional Article 67 is not related to him. He said, "But it's not a narrow name, maybe, but it's a one-year period when the reason why the 67 ends are being arranged directly, in a broad sense, taken into account. Of course, if the Supreme Election Board was really to be played so much, the study of the doctrine would be considered and arranged in such a way that it would be constantly turned into a court of law. Why was this arrangement made? The clerks said last year that violations of the law, the counting of unsealed votes were a reward. They said that the Supreme Election Board violated Constitutional Amendment 6771, in its December 19, 2018 decision to keep the President out of the election campaign. It can be said: "Is he being rewarded for violating the High Election Board?" (For the ministers, for the cabinet of ministers, the bans on the prime minister will no longer apply to the President, but the President is single-handed in place of all these authorities. It's a clear violation of the Constitution. Of course, explaining it with the right of peace may be easy in terms of reward, but it looks like an investment in the 2019 elections, which seems to be an extension of the Supreme Election Board's mandate, because our election law is not so curtailed, the rules are set, the preparations are made, and the members who will come from the Supreme Court, the members of the Supreme Court. Think of it, not knowing the law is an excuse even for a common citizen. No, they don't know election law for first-class high judges when the rule is valid. Now, in this respect, of course as a constant solution, it would be considered to be converted into a judicial body, but instead of thinking about it, it seems that the curvature solutions will continue, which, of course, are neither in line with the independence or the neutrality of this board. So, what seems to be the problem? When we look at the issues that have been discussed, particularly in the constitutional sense, I think that when the separation of men is considered, the decisions made by the organ and the organ, which speaks the first word, and the organ, which speaks the last word, have been replaced by the organ that enforces the laws it has made. Well, the first word is that this is the organ, and the last word is the judicial organ.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0559par0865	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0558par0866	Thank you. The executive rule applies, and the judiciary supervises, but as we see it, the organ that speaks the first word is the execution, and the organ that speaks the final word is the execution. Therefore, I do not condemn the decision made by RTÜK (RTÜK) because the constitution has been completely changed here. The Constitution, according to its definition, secures power by borders, and guarantees freedom. Power, however, has become completely unbridled, and rights and freedoms depend entirely on the expectations and the pleasure of power. In this respect, really, my wish is the hope of the law, so that we can enter 2019 as Parliament. If we can make the hope of law grow here, we deserve a good year. For him, as a rule-making organ, I say we maintain our authority. I wish you all many years with this hope.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0560par0871	I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: In Article 9 of Article 9, members of the YSK specialise in the field of electoral law during their work. The use of the information and experience of current members is contested. The expression is included. According to the first joke of Article 4 of the Supreme Election Board of 7062, the board consists of 7 original and 4 auxiliary members. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Court of Ministers, is elected by a secret vote from its members, and by the only majority of its full number of members. As stated in the Law, members of the Supreme Election Board are elected from the members of the Supreme Court. Members of the Supreme Court and the Court are made up of people who have reached a certain legal maturity and have expertise in the field. Therefore, there will be no problem with the mandate and the continuity of responsibility to replace the current members of the High Election Board. The exact implementation of Article 1 of the Law on the Offices of the High Election Board of 7062 is a requirement of the democratic state of law. A change like this will raise doubts in the public opinion, with a period of less than three months left before the election of the state administrations. Therefore, the 9th article must be removed from the proposal text. Dear friends, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 9th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 9th article is accepted. Now there's a motion on Article 10 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With the 10th Amendment to the 38th Law on Traffic and Some Laws, we propose and propose that the interim clause added to some Laws shall be changed in the following way, as follows, by the Article 11/5/2018 of the Law Proposal, and by the Reconstruction of Taxes and Some Other Acquisitions. With all due respect. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Cavit Arı Süleyman Girgin Emine Gülizar Emecan Faruk Sarıaslan (1) Those who violate these laws by the end of June 2019, by the end of June 2019, by the time they should be paid (including this date), although they have applied for configuration, as long as this clause is required to be paid in accordance with the date of payment of the 9th amendment, will not be used by the provisions of the Law, provided they pay for the payment. (2) The payment period for payments due in December 2018 and January 2019 has been extended by the end of June 2019, excluding the 13th amendment provisions of Article 10 of this Law. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0561par0887	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0560par0888	To talk about the motion, Congresswoman Süleyman Girgin... Here you go, Mr. Girgin.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0562par0891	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge under the Law on the Reconstruction of Taxes and Some Other Acquisitions and Changes in Some Laws. Dear lawmakers, I would like to point out some issues about this particular substance, especially as a tradesman's child, who has been trading in villages and villages for years, selling kitchen goods in the markets, closed his exhibition in the rain, unable to pay his dues at the end of the month, and who, at the end of the month, is suffering from problems like this. There is a problem in a country if the tradesman cannot pay the tax debt, the premium debt, the insurance debt, and even the configuration, even if he can't pay the configuration. You opened the shop this morning. It's ten o'clock. It's twelve o'clock. Some of our tradesmen, unfortunately, have to close the doors before they can make it. Dear lawmakers, with tax pardons, countries may want to create resources as well as give their taxpayers the opportunity to open a white page. However, this should not be an oxymoron of the principles of justice and equality of the Constitution. Justice is the cure for everything. However, in this country, if justice is like Mr. Erdogan's diploma, I mean, if no one sees it, there is no living, there is no peace, there is no trust, and in this country, unfortunately, everyone, including the tradesmen, is a victim. Turkey has received nine tax pardons in 16 years, and in the entire republic's history it is 35. Hence, the taxpayers have always come to the right expectation, whether they want to or not. If a tradesman can't even pay off his debt today, we need to find out why. We're dealing with a lot of tradesmen who can't pay their taxes, their premium debt, their store rent, their electricity, their water. In order to prevent these things, investment needs to be built, not consumer society, but investment society needs to be created, and the factory needs to be built, unemployment needs to be reduced. That's when the market will come alive, and there'll be customers to sell the tradesman's property, and he'll have a comfortable economy to pay his taxes and his BUG-KUR, and his insurance premiums. According to Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges data, the number of businesses closed in November increased by 12 per cent, and the number of small businesses dropped by 27 per cent compared to November of the previous year; the total of checks that were not paid between January and November is net $21 billion, but if you ask our managers, everything is fine. Article 73 of the Constitution states: "The fair and balanced distribution of the tax load is the social purpose of finance policy. " Tax justice means to receive a tax tax, which is less than a lot of winners, and less than a lot of winners. However, if you go to provide the government's collection of taxes indirectly from the basic consumption substances used only in everyday life and do not collect income tax regularly and supervisedly, you will destroy confidence in the state. 67% of the taxes collected in Turkey are paid by ordinary citizens who don't trade in any way, who don't own a company.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0563par0900	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0562par0901	The minimum wage for 2019 has been raised to 2.020 TL. I'd like to show you a table here: the minimum salary in 2016 is 1,300 liras, $442. The minimum salary in 2017 is 1,400 lira, $398. The minimum wage in 2018 is $1,603, $425. The minimum wage in 2019 is 2.020 lira, $380. I'd especially like to get the attention of our fellow workers: the minimum wage doesn't go up, it's going down. And our employers are paying $3,000 for minimum wage today, talking about the costs of employers. It's possible to solve this, too. We've submitted a motion as Republican People's Party to make sure there's no tax on the Asgarial fee. Let's support this, and we'll take the burden on both the worker and the employer. If that's not happening, let's raise the minimum income reduction to minimum wage and at least let the workers live comfortably. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0563par0904	I gave him a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0564par0905	The last speaker.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0562par0906	Last speech.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0563par0907	All right, let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0562par0908	Thank you. Dear lawmakers, the tongue of humor is forked; it makes the poor laugh, it frightens the cruel. We condemn the persecution, oppression of our artists that have been happening recently, the pressure on television channels, especially on opposition television channels. Getting out of the trunk in this country is not good for everything. Democracy is also freedom of speech...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0565par0910	What do you suggest, Mr. Girgin?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0562par0911	Democracy is also freedom of protest; democracy also means to defend the rights of labor in this country in the open. Or we're out of the trunk doing everything we can to say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...if you accept every action correctly, you can't call it a national will. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0566par0916	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 10th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 10th article is accepted.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0567par0918	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0566par0919	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0567par0922	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the orator has just made our President's diploma a subject of polemics at this time of night without any need. Those who know the electoral law know that a candidate who has been elected as MP or President has to document his student status and are also presented to the relevant authorities. There must be no hesitation in this matter. He also referred to various paintings, Mr. Speaker. The minimum wage was 184 liras in 2002; now it's up to 2.020 liras; it's up 11 times. On the basis of the dollar, it was $113 in 2002, and now it's $382; it's 3.5 times higher. As a result, at $184 in 2002, a quarter of a pound of gold... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0568par0927	All right, I'll give you one minute now, and the group vice presidents. For the record, finish up.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0567par0928	I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0568par0929	. I mean, if there's any more of this going on...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0567par0930	At 184 liras -- a quarter of a pound of gold -- was able to buy 5.75 pieces of gold in 2002, and now at $2.020 -- a quarter of a pound of gold -- can receive 5.77 quarters of gold. There is an increase in both the quarter and the dollar, and there is indeed an increase in the purchase parity, and there is a increase in wealth and prosperity as a power, despite all operations from inside and out to this side of 2010, and I have noted that this is how it should be known. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0569par0932	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0570par0933	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0569par0935	I understand diplomacy, but now it's weird to re-enter this minimum wage polemic. I repeat my claim: AK PARTY owes 192 quarters of gold to each citizen who has worked for minimum wage since 2002; let the EC PARTY pay first.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0570par0939	There is no motion on the 11th article. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 11 is accepted. There's a motion on Article 12 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 12th amendment of Law Proposal 38 be changed in the following manner. Muhammad Emin Akbaşoğlu Mehmet Doğan Kubat Recep Special ▪ MEDDE 12- (1) This Law; A) President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, B) The President shall carry out his other provisions. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0571par0952	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0572par0953	Motive...
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0570par0954	I'm reading the reason: Reason: The new framework added to the proposal is edited in the executive clause. I submit to your votes the commission's motion for commendation: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 12 accepted. Dear friends, this concludes the vote of substances in the second chapter.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0573par0959	What about our words, Mayor? Mr. President, you were going to decide about our bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0570par0960	Before voting on the entire proposal, Mr. Recep Special in favor of showing the color of the game under Article 86 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0574par0963	Mr. President, I've been promised to state the color of my vote in accordance with the Civil Code 86. We all needed the High Election Board here... five members of the board elected in 2016 were elected in January, but they were elected in September. They were going to serve five years and three months, and with that arrangement, we completed their term of office in six years. It's not a different kind of treatment for anyone. I'm saying we all need the High Election Board, so let's not put the election's defeat on a board. It's a proposal that we've come up with in many areas, and it's an offer that will please the citizens. Mr. Bülli Yıldırım said that the strong Parliament had a strong legislature; there is nothing more than seeing a problem and bringing an example of it to the House. That's how we give the first example of strong living. Although our fellow lawmakers from opposition parties have come here and spoken against this proposal, I also think the next vote will give a positive vote. We've also made a beautiful arrangement for our hearts, and I say to them, "May it be good." This is the last speech of the year 2018. I wish our country a good year in 2019, and I salute all of you, and I say my vote is yes.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0575par0970	The last speech... is probably the last of Mr. Private's speeches because there is another speaker. Against Mr. Engin Altay, the Istanbul MP. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Of course, I'll be the last to speak.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0576par0975	Let's finish 2018.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0577par0976	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly. I took the stand on the opposing side of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is in favor of the 86th article, because it is against one another. During the talks on this law proposal, lawmakers belonging to our party presented our views at the point of the clauses, and they also put them in the Commission. That was too bad for the Commission. The Republican People's Party lawmakers have made a very valuable contribution to the Commission, and we thank them for their contributions to both the Commission and the General Assembly, including some of the villages currently in neighborhood status -- including debts, taxes and mortars; other issues, traffic tickets, bridge sentences; reductions in the fees in agricultural rooms -- along with other parties. Here, of course, there are two recessive, reserve issues. The fourth article -- I hope it's well and fair -- is spoken in public or in the eyes of people who have doubts about the practice of rights, justice, and we wish that, although we are concerned about the application, it is in the fourth article. We will say yes as the Republican People's Party, and it may seem strange to you. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Likewise, I have told the members of the Supreme Election Board that the 9th Article was done today - we feel that it was unfair. Locking the High Election Board in the shadow of politics and power in private is not the right approach, the grounds are not reasonable. The Court and the Supreme Court can make these elections within their time. If it was delayed, the current members' mandate would continue. So, I think, by extending the mandate of members of the YSK, you've started an interrogation of your own public conscience in terms of your own intent. The Republican People's Party votes yes to this bill, as long as our reserve on Article 9 remains hidden. I'd blame you for using it in different ways, in one way or another. It's the end of the year, and the Parliament will probably meet again in 2019. On this occasion, I would like to leave this bench with a wish. In 2019, I can wish you and our beloved nation a lot of things, but without tension, and without tension. And I think there's a lot going on with Mr. President. With a prayer for him, for myself, for you politicians, but for Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the first place, I end with a prayer: May Allah keep the ambition of Mr. Erdoğan in his mind in 2019, most of all, for me and for you. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-26sit04spe0578par0987	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, the entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote be carried out by an electronic voting device: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the technical staff to ask for help, and even with this help, the members who can't get into the system will have their ballots delivered to the presidency within a three-minute period scheduled for a vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear friends, Minister of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy İstanbul MP Mehmet Mush and 25 MPs have reached an open vote on the Law on Road Traffic Law and Changes in Some Laws: So the offer has been accepted and legalized, so good luck. And on behalf of our Kaves friends, I would like to thank your delegation for their demands as their spokesman. I pray that the year 2019 will bring blessings for our nation and for all mankind. The issues on our agenda are complete. In accordance with the decision taken, it is 15 p.m. Tuesday (January 8th 2019) to discuss audit issues and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
