tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. In accordance with the programme, we will conduct talks on the eighth round today and on the first two-part vote of the Executive Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and on the 6th Amendment, including the 6th Amendment. In the eighth round, I read public administrations with budgets and precise accounts: Treasury and Finance Ministry, Finance Ministry, Finance Administration Chairman, Public Relations Agency, President of the Privatisation Administration, Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution, Turkey's Statistical Agency, Banking Editing and Control Agency, Treasury Undersecretary, Capital Market Board, IRS Budget. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account Commission? He's in position. Lawmakers will be promised 60 minutes to conduct the talks on the tour to the political party groups and to express their opinion on the request of the 62nd Article of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker, and the duration of the talks on behalf of the individual will be five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question and answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the eighth round, I run the names of political party groups, executive and individuals who are taking the words: On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Manisa MP Erkan Akçay, Mersin MP Baki Simsek, Konya MP Esin Kara, Ankara MP Mevlüt Karakaya. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party (HDP) MP İsmail Tatüoğlu, Konya MP Fahrettin Yoshush, Antalya MP Hasan Subaş, Tekirdağ MP Enez Kaplan, Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Eskişehir MP Emine Nur Günay, Erzurum MP Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu, Giresun MP Cemal Özturk, Adana MP Tamer Dağlı, Army MP Ergün Taşcı, Çorum MP Oguzhan Kaya, Tripoli MP Salih Cora, Balıkesir MP Yavuz Subababaş, Aydın MP Bekir Kuğer Erim, Aydın MP Mustafa Muş, Kütahya MP Ahmet Tan, Denizli MP Nilgün Ök. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul, İstanbul MP Erol Kadırcıoğlu, Şırnak MP Hüseyin Kürcıoğlu, Van MP Muazzez Orhan, Van MP Bedia Özkurçe Ertan, Mersin MP Ridvan Turan, Hakkari MP Sait Dede. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Antalya MP Çetin Osman Budak, İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke, Sinop MP Barış Karadeniz, Adıyaman MP Abrurrahman Tutder, Burdur MP Mehmet Göker, Hatay MP İsmet Tokdemir, Çanakkale MP Özgür Ceylan, Tunceli MP Polat Sharoğlu, Adana MP Orhan Sümer, İzmir MP Bedri Serker, İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat, Tokat MP Kadi Durmaz. On behalf of the person, in favor of Scholarship Congressman Emine Yavuz Kürküç, acting on request, on behalf of the person, Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli against him. I'm reading the 2nd article of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 867,296,403,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 74,884.756,000 Turkish liras, including $1179,800,000 in income, 63,704,956,000 in Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table is 6,420,391.000 Turkish liras, $116,591.000 Turkish liras, totaling $6,536.982,000 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 80,250,000 Turkish liras. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, our members of the group, the MPs before me, they did a good thing when they were conducting the hearing. After the political party groups finished their talks, our group's deputy presidents agreed; it became more efficient, and it was better assessed in terms of time. Your appreciation is... I'll give my word to the group's vice presidents if they want it, but it's been helpful, so I've watched it. In that respect, I'd appreciate it if we'd take care of it. I salute you all again. Now, the first word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to Manisa MP Erkan Akçay. Here you go, Mr. Akçay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0002par0064	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Treasury and Finance Ministry and the IRS Administration. I salute your honorable committee. Honourable lawmakers are one of the most important areas of government activity. Financial activities are of great importance, not only in terms of financing public activities, but also in the economic and social dimension. Financial policies such as tax, spending, debt, budget, non-tax revenues, privatisation, incentives; financial policy in managing areas such as employment, payment balance, investments and economic policies is an important factor. On the other hand, they show the character of the monetary policy of all these tools, content and preferences and priorities. The subject of finance policies is the state, its object is man and society. Taxes are not just a means of financing public spending; the social size of taxation is increasingly important. The name of this importance is justice in the distribution. The most important of the data we use to measure tax justice is the indirect and direct tax revenues of tax revenues. The total tax on indirect taxes in our country is 64.5% as of October 2018. However, it is considered a direct tax, but it actually increases to 67 per cent when you consider the tax on heavy-duty motor vehicles. Indirect taxes have not been reduced to 65 per cent in our country so far, I'm afraid. The OECD average, however, is not more than 46 per cent. There is one other thing I want to emphasize about taxation: Taxation is not only legal; it is also necessary for the tax system to have principles such as justice, certainty, specificity, fitness, economicity, generality, efficiency. We don't have easy days in the economy. Other economic factors aside, after the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, certain focal points have been attacked by economic vehicles, and we can't rule that out. These attacks were especially concentrated after the June 24th elections. The international rating agency Fitch dropped his credit rating on July 13th. On August 1st, the United States decided to sanction our two ministers. On August 3rd, the President announced the 100-day Action Plan, and on August 10th, the United States made a tax decision against Turkey. As soon as the Treasury and Finance Ministry announced its new package of measures, Standard & Poorbooks and Moody have dropped our country's credit rating. The lead role of this period was the US priest Brunson. World trade wars have increased to 7.30 liras in the process, adding incentives for foreign currency output from our country, with interest rates increasing in the world. After that, the HFE increased immediately after the TIFE. The Federal Reserve had to raise interest. With oil prices down in the world, the tax policy on gas and motors has had a positive effect. As of the second quarter, the stockpile of foreign debt has risen to 457 billion dollars, causing the impact of foreigners on our country to be strongly felt because we are open to foreign intervention. Under the influence of the company's foreign currency debt, foreign currency has become the key determinant of the dry economy. The increase in the exchange rate has had a very negative impact on the company balance sheet. The consumer trust index is almost indexed to the currency system, and as the currency increases, the consumer trust index falls, and the courtship thinks the trust index is increasing. In this period, the value of companies that were traded in the Stock Exchange is reduced rapidly, and the central bank's foreign currency reserves are reduced. As a result of all of this, the growth rate has dropped, and this increase in exchange rate has led to the decline of national income per person on a dollar basis. Dear lawmakers have taken important steps in the fight against economic attacks, thanks to the measures taken so far. Because of his efforts and accomplishments in this struggle, I congratulate Mr. Berat Colonelrak of Treasury and Finance, congratulating and congratulating. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The improvements in financial markets must continue to reflect on the real market. The first step is to strengthen trust in the economy. Structural reforms must continue. Inflation and current explanations should be conducted effectively. To prevent bankruptcy, measures must be developed. The breeding economic model and programme must be implemented immediately. In matters of economic equality, freedom, justice and economic security, high levels of action must be made. Interventions by the BDK and the Central Bank must continue to contribute effectively and permanently to financial policies. The incentives given under the name "crisis measures" must be added to new ones. Especially those who are most affected by inflation should be financially relieved. Unproductive spending should be waived, tax reductions and exceptions must be reconsidered, and the unrealistic ones must be abandoned, as well as the extra interest. The difference between farmers and consumer prices should be reduced in agriculture. Tax burdens on the farmer must be reduced, incentives increased, agricultural production increased, and food prices reduced. Along with these, I would like to bring to your attention the particular issues of finance policy: Finance policy tools must be used more effectively for social justice and distribution of revenues. Budget revenues must be purged as much of the conjunctural effects as possible. Financial discipline must not be compromised, spending must be avoided by waste and inefficiency. According to everyone's financial power, a predictable tax system should be established that pays taxes, encourages production and employment. Public expenditure should be priority based on the needs of our country. Finance management should provide financial and administrative activities, the plan, the programme, the budget relationship should be strengthened, financial risks should be taken into account, the system should be more transparent and accountable. In order to ensure effective distribution and use of resources, authority and responsibilities should be clearly identified in the process of drafting budgets, boosting parliament's efficiency, developing financial reporting. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, all public activities have a monetary cost. This cost is mostly covered through finance. As we call it, it's not a ministry building, IRS, bookkeeping buildings, et cetera. The total number of employees in the state's most basic public unit, the Ministry of Finance and the Chairman of the IRS, according to 2017 data. Finance personnel carry out one of the difficult tasks in terms of the public workload and the legislation they are responsible for. They represent a section where the state confronts the citizen, where state-pattern relations are sensitive. The state pays taxes, fines, tuition; the collection and payment are made by Finance personnel. At times, they may be subjected to verbal attacks, even clubbed, and even sometimes armed attacks. Our coven makes law, puts taxes on it, or consolidates it for public gains; the burden rides on the financiers. Until the last days of public collection, they work day and night, week and weekend, selflessly. The duties of our financiers who serve under difficult circumstances are as important as our teachers, as are our soldiers, as are our police, because our 81 million citizens have a right over them. Well, in that case, can the IRS people get their work's worth? Is it possible for him to rise in his profession in the driver's license line, and his rights, his working conditions, to live and work as a human being? The demands and expectations of the finance workers have not ended, but continue by amassing problems from the past, since Act 666, in which public employees claim to end complaints about their rights and salaries. In this part of my speech, I'd like to share with you the problems, expectations, and proposals for solutions of finance personnel. I know that all the IRS personnel are doing their jobs now, and they have ears in our House. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, Mr. Secretary, at the beginning of the problems of our finance employees, are the implementation of a fee that is not equal to equal work. They do the same work in the same room, side-by-side tables, but the difference between salary and salary is 1,500 lira. They can't rise on duty, they can't afford careers. In this direction, the in-house income expertise special exam must be opened immediately. In the past six and a half years since the final exam was taken on February 18, 2012, although the former finance ministers made promises at various times, the internal expert exam was unfortunately not opened. The main thing in the public staff regime is to bring in qualified human resources, develop their competencies, make career plans. Therefore, for employees employed in various departments of the IRS administration, the in-house income expertise special exam must be opened immediately. Another thing I'd like to bring to your attention is the tax inspectorial qualifications. First of all, the written test itself is a problem, but the second and biggest problem is the interview phase. In the past, these interviews were one of the most exposed areas in the Finance Ministry. In these interviews, many personnel have been forced to leave their professions with deliberate and subjective assessments. In the fifth and sixth periods for the assistant tax inspector, the tax inspectors were also prevented from becoming tax inspectors by the Tax Control Board. A large number of tax inspectors have been eliminated from the interview on their oral exam due to their enjoyment of personal hostility. As if you had an eye for the assistant inspectors who had been successful in every way. An arrangement must be made that will allow professionals who have successfully passed the written competence exam that must be taken within this scope to be evaluated with a new oral examination. Thus, the court situation of the Tax Control Board must be reduced to a minimum. Half of the fees paid to finance workers are covered by additional payments and overtime. A pensioner who is retired because additional payments don't reflect on his pension can't even receive half of his salary as a pension. Financers are almost condemned to not be able to retire. For example, 49 per cent of the employees of the Finnish Finance Administration have been in service for more than 20 years, and 37 per cent of the people in the country have more than 25 years. Under one roof of the state revenues expert and revenue specialists' staff in the IRS administration, it would be wise to combine income experts under the ranking of income managers and restore them to centrally appointed personnel status. Also, and I strongly declare that the central-strength division of all specialized staffs must be terminated. In other ministries, it is not possible to see it, and other ministries should be modeled and the Finance should start it. The area of authority and responsibility for revenue specialists who are held responsible for Treasury losses, due to the time and time of the transactions related to Tahakkuk and collection, must be clearly determined. National real estate experts should have the same rights as other career experts. Like the Tax Control Board, the following should also be created by the ▪Gider Control Board. Private service compensation rates paid to employees should be brought to compensation rates paid to employees of the same title in other institutions. For bookkeeping expertise, the number of staff members must be increased and a private in-house examination must be opened. Victims of income experts due to joint exams in 2003, 2004 and 2006 must be eliminated, and unfortunately that problem and injustice has not been solved for years. The joint test was appointed as a tax inspector's assistant, the state's assistant income expert, and assistant income specialists, whose rights were separate. These appointments were not made based on a specific objective criteria, but are now based on appreciation and somewhat random. All experts must be given 3600 additional indicators, severance, special service compensation rights, as well as other institutional expertise. The additional indicators of managers serving in the country should also be put in the position of managers in their equal position. According to the precedents of accounting and national real estate inspectors, the low task, authority, responsibility and autonomy rights must be revised and corrected. For disabled, technicians' assistant, assistant services class and other staff, an upgrade and a change of title must be opened; the staff in the auxiliary services class must be granted additional indicators. Also, I'd like to stress in particular some issues regarding the ministry's institutional structure. The multi-body structure, consisting of the Treasury and Finance Ministry, the Tax Council, the Chairman of the IRS, the General Directorate of IRS regulations and the Tax Control Board, is also benefiting from restructuring under one roof. The Tax Control Board, the Insurance Control Board and Treasury controllers within the Treasury and Finance Ministry must be clearly determined according to their interests. We're talking about finance and tax policies, structural problems; we're talking about laws, decrees, regulations, notifications are being issued; it's important to know that it's not possible for us to reach the efficiency of the Finance system without the rights of personnel being held in justice, and without the problems of these personnel being resolved. If employees are unhappy, if there is no working peace, the Treasury and Finance Ministry will be restless and inefficient. Let's stop the IRS from being an institution of unhappy and restless people. As the National Movement Party, it says that we will support the steps in this direction, as we have so far, and I wish the Finance and IRS budget to be a blessing, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0003par0095	Thank you, Congressman. In order to speak, Mersin MP Baki Simsek. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0004par0099	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group over the budgets of the Public Contraction Agency and the Privatisation Administration. I salute the High Council and the mighty Turkish nation. Dear lawmakers, the budget is an important tool for economic and financial policies and social policies, which the Turkish Grand National Assembly has authorized to transfer funds to the public and distribute these resources over the next year. The recent developments in our region have reached levels that threaten Turkey's sovereignty rights, the economic war against Turkey, the domestic and external attacks that our country has been subjected to have had a significant financial impact on the economy. In 2018, Turkey's economy was intended to be sacrificed to a capitalist, imperialist conspiracy, as if to melt Turkish lira and destroy the dignity of our state, the achievements of our nation. Our country has been tampered with by currency, wanted to be mixed up with currency. Unfortunately, the target of these attacks is, in fact, the Turkish nation. In addition to the savings of the economy, the loss of stability and trust in the outcome of all this has deterred the investor, the unemployment rate has risen, the economy has been blocked. The markets are still having problems, and there are serious collection problems, and there are cash shortages. As a country, we need new horizons, new roads and national solutions in the economy. For Turkey's economy to be flattened, production, employment-oriented new plans and programmes must be implemented immediately. As the Nationalist Movement Party, we expect the implementation of hard money and finance policy, the public to implement austerity measures, the adoption of budget discipline, the failure of the Central Bank and the Council of Money Policy to immediately follow developments, the mandatory intervention of Turkish lira, the incentive of the economy model to use foreign lira, the introduction of rent in foreign terms, the restructuring of highways and bridge crossing fees with our national money, the very effective fight to explain inflation and current action, the prevention of possible bankruptcy, the establishment of a very stable and strategic economic vision with political will, the development of a very urgent economy model, the adoption of economics, the adoption of economics, and the ability to reduce economic production of economics, and the ability to ensure acrelations, and adication of globality, and acregitation of possible security, and acities, and adication of possible security, and acities, and acities, adication, and acities, and acility, and acility, and acility, acility, and adication, adication, and adication, adication, and adication, and adication, and advanity, and adication, and advanity, and adicitivity, and adits. Dear lawmakers, the basic measure in privatisations and other public tenders is the protection of our national resources. Therefore, privatisation processes must also be assessed in terms of the understanding of fighting corruption. The public shares in 250 companies, which have been held during the period of the privatisation practices since 1986, have been privatised through the sale of bloc sales, supply and stocks; 19 ports, 93 power plants, 178 facilities and businesses; 18 hotels, social facilities; 5,400 do not move; and 40 mining fields and car inspection services are sold in assets and concessions; 11 ships owned in the privatisation programme, 9.103 pencils, machine equipment, irons and services are registered to these companies through the sale of 150 names and assets. A total of 68.7 billion dollars has been implemented since 1986. The aim of privatisation practices in Turkey is to promote capital by selling public enterprises in capital markets through public supply. However, the state of the state of public business has dominated the understanding that these institutions must be sold no matter what. The privatisation policy, based on such an understanding, is far from allowing public resources to be spread through privatisations, creating a competitive market, increasing production and employment. According to us, privatisation should aim to establish competition in the economy, to reduce its burden on public finances, to effectively use resources, to ensure production and employment growth, technology transfer and export capacity. No initiative should be allowed to replace state monopolyes by private sector monopolys, and the principle of transparency in practice should be fully controlled, and any attempt to disturb the public conscience. In our country, every country has problems -- student housing, credit issues, scholarship problems. This housing issue must be resolved before universities can be opened. Every year after colleges are opened, loan dorms have student placement, and many families are victims wherever they go. The pay-per-view teacher must be terminated, the entire deficit must be filled with staffed teachers. The OGS, the HGS, the bridge bans all must be revoked; bridges and highway fees must be withdrawn to a reasonable level. As a trucker's child, a trucker who strives to bring bread to his home must be given cheap diesel. The villagers, whom the Great Leader Ataturk (,) called the masters of the militia, should be given cheap diesel, cheap seed, and cheap fertilizer. The incentives must be given according to the manufacturer, and the resources of the state must be transferred to the right place. Our citizens who deal in livestock should be supported according to traditional Anatolian culture, providing the country's basic needs. It is not possible for agriculture and animalism to survive, only with incentives given to large corporations. All treasured farmland must be handed over to farmers for free, as promised by the National Movement Party. The land of the state must not be sequestered by an online application to a citizen who put a prefabricated citizen in zoning peace. The Hal Act must be reviewed, and the brokers in support of the farmer must not be disabled. It is not possible for those who grow crops in villages to market their products in Ankara, Istanbul, Germany, Russia. The most important factor is fuel and energy costs. Commission fees may be expected to improve, but the real improvement is fuel and taxes. When our country has been targeted too openly and the economic games have been savaged and the Turkish economy has been asked to sacrifice to the capitalist empirical conspiracy, I will not remove my prosciutto in order to live free and independent in the country, aunt Bosna, who says, "You are the remnant of the Ottomans" and "We are going to join the Turkish army" and "We are going to leave us to whom?" He says that we will not return from the fight to destroy the last terrorist who has been robbed of blood and used for violence, that we will not return from the state's pay and pay the child killer of the nation's podium to those who salute the Kandil, those who wink at the traitors of the nation's Assembly, those who seek to legitimize terror, those who seek it, we will not stand by, and with these thoughts and thoughts, we will not return from the government's good fortune, and I salute the great Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0005par0115	It's time for "Esin Kara" (Iconian MP). [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0006par0118	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Central Management Budget of 2019 and the income budget of the 2017 Central Management Computing Law Bill, Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Association. I salute you all. When my coffin walked on the day I died, Don't think I have this world's problems. Don't cry at me. Don't say, "Woe, woe, woe." If you fall into the devil's trap, Then it's time to say, That's when it's called a pity, a pity. When you see my funeral, don't say break up, break up, That's when my date was. Don't you dare say goodbye to me when you put me in my grave. The tomb is the veil of the congregation of heaven, The grave looks like a prison, but it's actually a prison break. You've seen the sinking, you've seen the birthing. What a waste it is before it sets in the sun and the moon! You see a sink, but it's actually born, it's a flash. What seed was planted on the ground and not finished? Why doesn't it end when it comes to man's seed, You think he won't make it? Which bucket was released into the water and not taken in full? Why do you cry when Can Joseph falls into the well? You shut your mouth over here, you're gonna open that way. You are now in the void of the world of indecencies." Yesterday, we understood the 745th anniversary of Hebiarus, the man who declared his meeting with his Lord on the night of the wedding. On the journey of spiritual life, from Belh, from Konya, from Mesnevi to Dhabir, and from Fihi Mahi Mahi, I invite you all to come to see our beautiful Conjah, which is the capital of culture. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Until 2013, independent control in Turkey was only mandatory for companies who belong to the Capital Market Board, but in order to establish and establish Turkish accounting standards in accordance with international standards, to establish and establish audit standards, to authorise independent audit agencies, to oversee their activities and to ensure the necessary confidence and quality in the field of public control, as part of the Court of Accounting and Control Standards of Accounting, as well as the Court of Law. Similar organisations have been established in the United States in 2002, in response to financial scandals, as well as the establishment of an institution that has been created in many countries, in full, true, and comparable information due to ongoing accounting scandals, the problems created by bankruptities and financial paintings. The institution has done important work for our country as part of projects conducted by the International Federation of Accounting, Turkey accounting standards, Turkey financial reporting standards, financial reporting standards for large and medium-sized businesses, independent control standards, quality control standards, and projects carried out by the International Federation of Accounters. There is no ruling that by creating an independent and effective complaint mechanism in the functioning of public services, the administration can act in any manner based on human rights-based justice, to study, to investigate, to investigate, to investigate, to investigate, to investigate, to act on matters related to the functioning of the administration. The absence of this authority is a great flaw in the failure to provide the desired benefit. The Public Control Agency, which makes recommended decisions, must be made more effective, and its recommendations should be taken into consideration by public institutions. The National Movement Party is the first political party to express that we care about public control starting in 1999 and that the ombudsman's establishment should be brought into Turkey. The institution's public budget of 2017 was 38 million, 725 000 euros, while its expenditures amounted to 27 million 128,979 euros. The estimated income budget of 2018 was 43 million, 430,000 TL ($350,000), while in August 2018 it was $16,492,554. The $27,901,000,000 capital aid, interest revenues, interest interest interest, other deposit interest interest and other interest rates are not acceptable for the implementation of the $470,99,000 budget proposal offered in the 2019 budget, from the company's independent audit and auditory companies, its revenues, permit revenues, tests, registration, education, seminars, and printed paper sales revenues. In 2017 and 2018, the spending costs of the institution are below budgeted costs. If we make a general assessment of budget revenues, our national income per person, despite a numerical increase, is reduced by $1,217 if the dollar is evaluated. With the Syrians living in our country participating in the calculation, the amount will be even lower. The percentage of our country's gross foreign debt is 51.8% in the second quarter of 2018. Our country's foreign debt level is constantly increasing. What we desire is to reduce the country's debt rate, rather than the foreign debt, the road to internal debt. As a matter of fact, our 2019 budget has drawn attention to high interest costs and is estimated at $117.3 million. After July 15th, we all experienced attacks by global forces on currency and interest rates, beginning with the goal of securing Turkey, aimed at guiding the economy and politics. Turkey's economy has been sought to lead to instability. This uncertainty, loss of confidence, instability, which has been imposed on our nation in economics, domestic and foreign politics, has been affected by investors, and domestic and foreign investments have come to a standstill. For this reason, it is especially important to increase fixed capital investments in the public sector, to value investment imports rather than imports of interim goods in imports. In order to increase revenue, production, exports and employment, investments must be increased in order for the economy to survive. In order to increase investments, studies should be made on investment banking. The efficient use of public resources is important at this point. The issue of manufacturing and selling advanced technology should be weighted, and the support for RD studies should be increased. Brain migration must be tried to prevent, our brilliant children must be identified at an early age and brought up in private. Our people should be conscious of their consumer preferences, weighting the consumption of domestic and national products. Another problem with economics is inflation. The inflation rate was 21.6 per cent in November. The VAT and OTV discounts for fighting inflation were issued, with exceptions to VAT in manufacturing and equipment purchases until the end of 2019. In R&amp; R&amp; R&amp; R&amp;&amp;amp;&amp;gt; &amp;gt; In R&amp;&amp;gt; In R&amp;D &amp;&amp;&amp;gt; &amp;amp;gt; In design activities, new purchases of machinery and equipment are also excluded from VAT. The effects of these incentives on investments, exports, employment and inflation must be analysed well, and the practices that do not contribute should be abandoned. Based on the VAT collections, you'll find that this is the VAT arrest of a large majority. Unfortunately, our taxpayers don't want to pay any taxes except for statements issued through detention, so they're either on the road to tax evasion or tax evasion. Here, the administration of the taxpayers' awareness of this trend should be focused on this issue with the free accountant financial advisors and act together on the solution to problems. As of November 2018, the number of income tax taxpayers in our country was 1,922,498, a simple income tax taxpayer, 778,330, institution tax taxpayer 805,242, and added value tax taxpayer 2 million 674,839. We have to focus on the problems of free accountant financial advisors, who also work in accordance with Law 3568, who collect the tariffs, the dues, or even the collections of the biggest pen in our budget. Look, we closed our coven here at 3:00 p.m. last night, and you can see how empty our coven is. Imagine that our work lasted until the end of May, starting at the beginning of January, including Sundays. Last year, I spent two Sundays at my house between January and May, and other than that, I worked until 2:00 a.m. at my office. Our shift didn't start at 11:00 in the morning, so we were at our office at eight. Here, as the National Movement Party on the problems of our country's number-one income, its merits, its collections, free accountants, our financial advisors, I hope we will soon bring our proposal and expect your support. At the same point, Mr. Erkan Akçay expressed that our officers who work for the IRS have been waiting for an in-house upgrade exam since 2012, and that their problems with their rights are not detailed, so I don't mention them in detail. The tax problem is our country's major problem that has been going on for years. The distribution of taxes must be brought to a fair level, we must resolve the problems of tax collection with proper regulations. The tax burden should not be on top of what we call a payroll worker, officer, minimum wage and small business. As a matter of fact, in our declaration as the National Movement Party, we have submitted our proposal to the Supreme Assembly to remove the income tax from the minimum wagers. In order to ensure tax justice, we have to do it immediately to establish a fair tax system that everyone pays according to their financial powers. In tax-related arrangements, we need to assess the impacts and social aspects of taxes, as well as the priorities of public spending and financing of investments. At this point, it is important that the exception, except for the exception, or the appropriate use of SEC discounts, be given to the investors who invest. Other than investment, these exceptions, exceptions and discounts should be considered to increase imports rather than exports. I believe that the safe delivery of a significant number of asylum seekers in our country to their country in order to reduce their high economic cost will solve both our economic and social problems. As the Nationalist Action Party, we have stated in our election statement that the implementation of the rules of the market economy, preventing monopoly formations and unfair competition, limiting the public's role in the economy to guiding, regulatory and controlling activities, should be the basis for a stable, environmentally sensitive and employment-friendly growth, which is supported by private sector dynamics and initiative power. The worst thing about our country is despair. Back to February 18, 1923, the 1st Izmir Economic Congress had been occupied from every inch of our country, where the enemy had not printed. Our shipyards were gone, our army was disbanded, our factories were destroyed, we had nothing to produce, we had no power. Today, we're in no more trouble than that day. We have accomplished much with the 1st and 2nd Izmir Economic Congress, so the power we need is found in the noble blood in our veins. Let's trust ourselves, we're not hopeless. I'm saying there's always hope when there's a nationalist movement party. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] I would like to end with the words of our leader, Dr. State Gardener, who will surely be provided with normalisation, balance and stability, political caution and caution, national solidarity and awakening. After the country is gone, what will we talk about, the economy of what? Against those who meant for the country's stay, this nation sacrificed what they had in the Salvation War yesterday, and today, if necessary, we're here for the last penny of Turkey's budget. I wish our budget to be good. I salute our Veteran Assembly and the great Turkish nation watching us at the beginning of their screens.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0007par0162	Thank you, Congressman. Ankara MP Mevlüt Karakaya is in charge. Your time is 15 minutes, Mr. Karakaya.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0008par0166	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the National Movement Party Group on the budgetary budgetary budgetary budgets of 2019, each of our three more important institutions, the Capital Market Board, the Banking Editorial and Control Agency and the TİK budgets. I salute you all. Dear MPs, the SEC and the BDK are regulatory and auditory, and TİK is our research-qualified institutions. For a healthy economic structure and function, these three institutions have very high operational importance of invisible hands. The SEC and the BDDK show its effect directly on financial markets, and indirectly on the whole of the economy, with regulatory and control functions. One of the two institutions is the founding of the SPK (SEC) in 1981-1982. You'll remember, in those years, Turkey had a serious banking crisis. The founding of the BDK (BDK) coincides with the 2000-2001 years, at which time there was a financial crisis, and more specifically, Turkey had a serious banking crisis. TÜİK, however, has a direct or indirect effect on the whole of the economy by producing any official, statistical data that would be the basis for individual or public economic decisions. With the statistics produced by the SEC and the BDDK, the TİK has a very important task, such as providing a market and economic environment to ensure that the resources in the economy can be distributed in a fair and just manner, or prevent injustice and injustice. Economic units, households, or individuals, state and corporations suffer from economic decisions that result in profit or loss. It's perfectly natural, but if our institutions can't do exactly what they've been given in their mission, they'll be the cause of injustice and injustice, the lack of rights in the distribution of resources. So if they can't perform the regulation and inspection or the right and reliable data supply function, then that means they're causing an unfair transfer of resources and wealth. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, the function of these institutions is not only to ensure the right to share resources, but to be the top of the issues that have been reported and brought up in our country. Fair share is important in this sense, leading to the most important areas in our country that need to be fixed. As an MHP, we care about that. As a matter of fact, one of the four main elements of our productive Economic Programme is rightfully shared. Therefore, we express every opportunity to provide a righteous sharing environment by preventing any possible, possible injustice, injustice, favor, or manipulation during the sharing of the illegitimate domestic patient. And for that, we're standing on three substructures. These are the requirements of fair competition, economic reconciliation, and social state. The area we're talking about and perhaps we haven't been successful enough as a country so far is the lack of a fair competitive environment. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, especially in the beginning of the original functions of the SEC and the BDDK, are coming to ensure the development of the financial system. In the meantime, the Turkish financial system is a bank-based system. For this reason, intermediary transactions in the fund market are being carried out mainly through banks. Buildings, such as investments and pensions, are market-based structures. Turkey's financial markets are not very adequate in these matters. For this reason, banks provide financing for a significant part of economic activities in Turkey. Today, the total active size of the banking sector has reached a volume of $4 trillion. When you compare that number to GDP, it's 120 percent of the GDP. Again, when we look at the credit portfolios in the banks' assets, we see that these numbers are at very significant levels as of today at around $2.5 trillion in volume. This shows: If you want to attract foreign capital, if you want to increase savings, increase investments, direct direction, if you want to maintain stability, you have to keep your banking system on solid ground and run it. The financial sector was subjected to substantial structural regulations following the 2001 financial crisis. As a matter of fact, structural systems in the financial financial system in 2001 are the main reasons why Turkey was not affected so much by the global financial crisis in 2008-2009. Prior to that, at the point of 2001, banking in Turkey had no law at all. As a matter of fact, what we're talking about today is the Banking Editing and Control Agency, which we're discussing with its budget, and it's an institution that's been operating in this period, and it's carried out some very important tasks. Dear MPs, of course, there are important things that Turkey must do in the financial system and in the monetary market. As a matter of fact, in terms of the money market, we can't ignore the growth potential of the insurance industry. The insurance sector should be marked as one of the important areas in Turkey that really has the potential for growth and needs to be expanded. In a bank-based financial structure, there's no need to express how important and important the Banking Organization is. Dear lawmakers, financial markets are the fastest-responsive markets that respond to real economic changes and political changes and developments. Therefore, since July 15th, global forces have been trying to manipulate the Turkish economy and politics through courtship and interest. As a result of these interventions, CDS bonuses were averaged from 181 points in March 2018 to 457 points in September 2018, which began to return today, around 376 points! I'd like to say that this recovery will continue further because of the measures taken. Dear lawmakers, one of the main areas in Turkey is the capital market in which the Capital Market Board plays a regulator and controller under supervision and supervision. Of course, we build boards, institutions; we create legislation about them; we install tasks, functions; but the markets, unfortunately, are not built; markets form. In order for markets to develop, serious infrastructure is needed. In terms of the capital market, Turkey has certainly made important ways in its field compared to the countries in which it is grouped close to its own, but in terms of the development of the capital market, we see that both savings have become investments, as well as those in need of funds, as well as those in need of funds, as we're looking at statistics, they're not at the level and level that we expect, and at this point, we need to solve serious infrastructure problems for the development of the capital market. A moment ago, our Konya MP spoke of the effects of certain regulations on standards of accounting and financial reporting. In fact, in terms of legislation, especially in terms of accounting standards and financial reporting standards, Turkey is much ahead of many European countries today, but I would also like to say that serious regulations must be made in other infrastructures. Of course, there have been significant losses in Turkey, along with the July 15 treacherous attempt. Perhaps the least expressed of these losses is the human brain, the human source. They harvested our children young, young, and led them to different areas, making our trained staff disappear in an instant. As a matter of fact, the BDK and the SEC are the most injured institutions with professional qualifications, most of which were cut off from the institution after July 15th. Therefore, the immediate removal of this qualified employee deficit in these institutions, the personnel deficit, Mr. Secretary, is mandatory. As a matter of fact, our two institutions, which are regulators and controllers of financial markets, have recently been unable to show the necessary activity in the audits. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, another important matter I'd like to address from here is a matter of interest in TÜİK. Of course, TİK is a research institution, but the data it produces are the outputs that make up the infrastructure, the subsidiary data of the right sharing that I've just tried to express, which affects the entire economy, the whole of life. In this sense, especially in Turkey, in recent years, a research company, polling companies, is now known as terrorism. They're trying to manipulate democracy, unfortunately, out of those manipulations, apart from that right-of-econceived share in the economy. To this end, on August 10, 2018, we submitted a law proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey concerning research companies. It is really important for our country's democracy, for the healthy continuation of the economy, for the establishment of the TÜİK (TÜİK) to continue its activities in the form of an oversight and supervision institution, to become an institution that makes the necessary arrangements for the quality and properties of the research companies, and to make the necessary audits, that I salute your grand delegation again.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0009par0184	Thank you, Congressman. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] In order to speak, it belongs to Bursa MP İsmail Tastüoğlu on behalf of the PARTI Group. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0010par0189	Mr. President, most valuable members of our Parliament, we are in the presence of you and our beloved nation to share the views of the GOOD PARTY on the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget. Today, we want to express our own views, especially on the Banking Editorial and Control Agency and on the tax system. Editing and auditing institutions are the institutions of the last quarter century, as you know, and so in our public life, these institutions are new, but they've come up with active roles. In fact, Turkey has also endured the 2001 crisis, but has been able to turn it into a serious reform process, and these institutions have been activated and have played important roles in public life. The Banking Organization and Investigation Agency has a budget with that reputation and its budget has its own personal income. The Banking Editor and Control Agency's income budget -- as in other regulatory public institutions -- is comprised of its share of participation and other revenues. When we look at it normally, 94 per cent of their income is their share of their income, and these are their share of the banks. 5 per cent of BDK's revenues are interest and 1 per cent are other revenues. The increase in the budget is around 8 per cent, which has, of course, increased slightly in inflation in recent years. And especially since 2005, when we look at the BDK budget, it's possible to make an important assessment. In fact, such institutions carry a budget system around a logic about paying their own expenses with their own unique income. However, the BDDK transfers 49.5 per cent of its revenues to the Treasury, about half of its income, and it is continuous. So I'd like to point out to the BDK executives and to the Minister that there's essentially some sort of tax on banks here. So normally, the Banking Organization and Control Agency has divided 45 per cent of its total expenditures into personnel costs, 29 per cent into purchases of goods and services, 16 per cent into capital costs, 7 per cent into current transactions, this decade, and has transferred a 3 per cent share to the Social Security Agency in this way. But in the end, he's constantly transferring half of BDK revenues to the Treasury. This is not really the way to improve and regulate the budget logic. Therefore, the rates in Article 101 of Law 5411 must be revised. Otherwise, theoretically and practically, I'd like to call it the secret taxation of banks in some way, so academically, that's the way it's considered, and I'd like to draw your attention to that. Of course, the Banking Editing and Control Agency is independent of its own income, its own spending, its own budget, and it is supported by the political will from the day it was founded. In this regard, there is only a problem with refining the income structure of the Banking Organization and Investigation Agency, which I think will also be done. Another issue is about the tax system. We need to take a look at our tax system and look at it. Highly valued lawmakers have a very serious relationship between taxing or taxing and becoming a state. Active taxation and active state are very parallel. In essence, taxing is a state because taxing is a state-only property. If it's about taxing, there's the idea of being a government without a government. In the past, a society's commitment to another society is merely taxed. That's where my tax return is considered a cause of rebellion. Now, therefore, tax reform is at the top of the issues in Turkey that are primarily needed, and this is a very delayed reform. Turkey needs serious structural reforms, which will be discussed on Friday. Look, there's a successful line between 2002 and 2007 in Turkey's economic development and the AK PARTI period, until 2008. The reason for this is structural reforms after the 2001 crisis, and the will of the EC PARTI government to continue these reforms. Why, after 2007, is the last decade negative even in Turkey's own line? Because these structural reforms have not continued, this determination has been made not only by us, but by Mr. Lightning and many political personalities, who have taken the initiative in economic management in the past decade. Now, a fundamental tax problem is, once in Turkey, tax capacity, tax zeal is low, tax base is tight. Look, since 1990, the population of Turkey has increased by 50 percent, the number of taxpayers has increased by 20 per cent, and the VAT has increased by 28 per cent. Such progress is not a parallel development. In terms of tax justice, it's already something that every interested person talks about, indirect and direct taxes. In Turkey, all of this taxing results in a situation like this, which essentially reflects on this economy: those who profit from interest are more profitable than those who earn from interest, not as individuals, but as profit. So it's turning into a rant economy, the market economy. And this has a very important role to play in the lack of this tax system and the failures. Look, a very important problem with our tax system is that we have a very complex tax system in the world -- exclusivity and exceptions -- on our own scale, we have the most complex tax system in the OECD countries. Today, as financial advisors and interested professional scholars are well aware, new expertise in social security and exemptions are now under way. So the knowledge and experience of twenty-five years of financial advisors is not enough to implement these exemptions and exceptions in Turkey. New software provides new expertise and new costs for implementing social security premiums. Believe me, we're dealing with a tax system that's lost its goal and its main philosophy. It's a non-political criticism, a non-existent comment, and it's a determination, which is pretty much the same for everyone here. But as a fundamental problem, look, we can't solve our problems because we can't talk about them, we always cover our problems and we can't talk. Those who can't speak can be overcome by these problems, and the problems we're weak in today's struggle are the problems we can't talk about; that's the problem with foreign policy, and that's the problem with economics. Look, I'll bring up a parallel issue in the economy. Now, the economic situation we're in is just to describe it as an economic attack by external forces, to talk about it, to screen it. When you pass it on to the people of another geography, believe me, they smile at you. We can't discuss this problem if we make a title like this. If there's been some sort of economic manipulation in this country, we should basically talk about the 2001 crisis as you look at the results. But because Turkey talked about it that day, look, because it talked about it that day, it managed to overcome this crisis with very serious reforms. It was critical, and since the AK PARTY followed them at that time, 2007 has taken a successful line up to the 2008s, but today, we can't and we can't solve it as an attack by external forces. Because, of course, there are external forces, but we all know that Turkey has not moved to this geography, and our neighbors haven't had ten years of tenants, they've always existed. But his ability to rule is something else. We can't solve this without confronting it, not without talking to it. Believe me, if we'd talked about Syria, we wouldn't have had these problems, we'd have lost because we couldn't talk. To many problems... here, again, about taxes... the world has given up on this resource theory -- especially expert friends who know -- they've moved on to the theory of net growth. I'm just saying, for the sake of revenue, these have been dropped, abandoned, so let's talk about this. Today, there is a clear increase in the modern tax system. Look at the latest data, we're improving our budget balance with numbers that are not in the budget of 2018. Are you talking about the 2018 budget? No. So we're going day by day, moment by moment, groping. Come, let's not hide this economic crisis like this. Of course, there are outside forces, this was there a hundred years ago, and there was one a year ago, and it's going to happen again. We are also the external power for another country, which, of course, is ruled by the country knowing it. Come on, let's talk about this around here and turn the economic situation today into an advantage. This country has no chance of writing a good story without doing structural reforms. No one can say or claim otherwise. Look, the main problem today is that Turkey is missing a political and economic anchor that will bring it into a secure environment. Look, it was in the AK PARTY group in 2001 and 2002. These structural reforms and the process of the European Union were an anchor and took the country to a really good place. Otherwise, it's not a coincidence that you've lost your ability to govern and govern, it's an institutional country.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0011par0200	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0010par0201	If we don't find this anchor, we can't move Turkey into a security environment, that's the main problem. Trust governs Turkey's economy -- Mr. Minister needs to know better than all of us -- trust governs the market, trust governs the market. In an economy, the state doesn't decide who wins and how much, but in an economy, the market decides who wins and how much. In the 1950s, those who called it freedom of thought, freedom of faith, freedom of enterprise saw it. I'm sorry that the Health Minister couldn't tell you about the contract here when the Ministry of Health budget was being discussed. If there's not a contract for such a large amount of tender, what kind of freedom of enterprise are we talking about? It's an outrage. I'm sorry, as an intellectual and as a parliamentary speaker of this country. Minister of Health: This is the contract, my friends, and this is the contract. This is the contract of the state, the public. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0011par0204	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0010par0205	If some of them have access to it, and some of them don't, then there's no point in talking about freedom of enterprise; the government doesn't distribute resources, political resources. It's a different name, a different place, a country where politics is handing out resources. I, God willing, wish you a good day in the hope that there will be a Turkey to overcome your problems. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0012par0209	The order belongs to Konya MP Fahrettin Yoshış Bey. Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0212	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all on behalf of myself and my group. I'd like to offer my opinion on the budget for the IRS. Before that, I'd like to say a word to his memory from the Lord God, who had received Hakkk seven hundred and forty-five years ago. He says: "The most difficult work in the world is watching quietly how no one else knows how to do something. " Yes, we will not watch and say it according to this beautiful word of the Lord. In the budget talks that have lasted almost a week, dozens of speakers have made many definitions for the budget of 2019. And I want to tell you what's on this budget and what's not. There are no workers in this budget, no farmers, no tradesmen, no officers, no pensioners. Because there's interest in this budget, there's taxes, there's punishment, there's waste, and more importantly, there's tax injustice in this budget, and investment is rights. You've been running the country for 16 years, and still 67.2% of the budget consists of indirect taxes. In the process, you couldn't find the balance between indirect and indirect taxes. The interest payments are the third largest in the budget. The interest costs increased by 37 per cent compared to the previous year to $117 billion. The year 2019 will be very difficult for citizens. After the June 24th elections, the point where you brought Turkey is clear. In Turkey, ruled by one person, 81 million of our citizens entered the year 2019 without hope.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0014par0219	That's what you think.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0220	The nation's only hope is the National Lottery. The jackpot at the national lottery Christmas raffle is $70 million. Long queues are forming in front of your famous sister's ticket booth in Istanbul. Citizens have already given up on the government; ganyan, Sports, Toto, National Lottery, they run for their luck games, and their luck games are growing more and more. There is no economic crisis in the country. Inflation has risen to over 20 per cent, interest rates exceed 25 per cent, foreign currency increases by 40 per cent, unemployment double digits, public debt defaults. There is no crisis. Woe to the citizens, especially if there was a crisis in the country known as the crisis. Our country has become a country of immigrants. The Syrians were promoted to first-class citizens. They have immunity. Let them eat, let us watch.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0014par0222	Yeah, shame on you! Oh, come on! Be a little hospitable. Oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, oh, my God, Don't do this!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0015par0223	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0224	Let my citizen pay medical bills and medical bills in hospitals, so they don't pay.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0014par0225	It doesn't suit you. Too bad, too bad!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0226	Our government is watching while more than 6 million unemployed in our country, while more than 1 million citizens of 12 Syrian countries are working off the books. We say there are no workers in this budget, and if you say there are, are you going to increase the minimum wage worker by 26 percent in January 2019?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0016par0228	Did your union do it at the same rate?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0229	We say there's no pension in this budget, and if you say there is, I ask you, will you increase pensioners by 26 percent in 2019? Or I'll ask you another question: If you promised, we'll fix their pensions under a thousand TL. You still don't correct them. We say there are no officers in this budget, and you say there are. I ask, are you going to increase officers' salaries by 26 percent in January 2019? We say there are no tradesmen in this budget. Is there any value you put in the budget for the merchants other than the tax burden? If you say there are no farmers in this budget, will you give our farmers the $41 billion that our farmers will receive? Look, a poet says: ▪ Feed the employee what they eat. / As a matter of responsibility, wear what you're wearing. / Know that it is the Prophet who says these things. / Those who are unjust are the wrongdoers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0017par0236	You didn't just say that about the people who came!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0237	Dear lawmakers, the increase of total tax revenues in 2019 compared to the previous year has increased by more than 20 per cent, while the increase in income tax has increased by 24 per cent. These taxes will ruin the citizen. Since 2017, you've brought 5 per cent tax reductions to taxpayers who pay regular taxes; you've fixed the minimum fee at $1,603 per cent because the second percentage of the minimum wage tax is up to 20 per cent; you've done it right. But why didn't you do the same procedure for officers and staffed workers? Today, all officers' salaries are reduced due to tax cuts. Officers and other staffed public workers pay their taxes regularly, no missing persons. Why don't you make an adjustment to make up for the downed income due to the percentage of the government's income taxes? So far, all the finance ministers have said, "We didn't crush the officers with inflation, we gave them a raise as much as inflation." It's true on paper, but it's always missing from the officer's pocket. Today, contract officials and all other officers are losing revenue every year by 3-4 per cent of annual inflation due to their tax slices. Therefore, we do not crush our officers with inflation. The word of those who rule the country remains in the air. As for our pensioners, when SGK Law No. 5510 came into force in 2008, the government said: "We will gather the BUG-KUR and Retired Ark under a roof and provide norm and standard unity in working life. You have given the citizens such good news, but neither ten years have passed, nor have the norm norm nor the standard union of pensioners. Promises and promises flew in the air.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0017par0239	Ask the President of the Constitutional Court about that.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0240	The government has divided pensioners for a long time: pensioners and other pensioners. The pensioners were increased by the increase of employees, while the other pensioners -- such as SEC, BUG-KUR -- were increased by different rates. Unfortunately, you've even discriminated between pensioners because discrimination is unfortunately the most fundamental principle of your 16 years of power. Again, for minimum wage, I ask the government: What about the raise of the minimum salary, which will increase the salary of our President by 26 per cent in 2019? What do we know about him, there's a commission there; there's an employer on one side, and there's a worker on the other; let them tell you. What are you? If you want to do 26 percent, you can do 30 percent. On the other hand, you've done great work, you've put hundreds of thousands of subcontractors on the staff -- look, I'll give you your right -- and you've done very well. But you did something so wrong that you said to these contractors, you said, by 2020, you get a 4+4 increase every year, no more. Yahu, inflation is 20 per cent, 30 per cent. No matter what, you'll have to deal with that 4+4. Why? Sir, we don't make this decision, but as a power, so does our work. Now, in 2019, in the year that inflation exceeds 20 percent, will you give these people their due, or will they be satisfied with their fate? You all know the situation of our esteemed MPs, tradesmen and farmers. Our farmers breathe through their noses because of fertilizer, seeds, medicine, and food inputs that reach 100 percent of farmers. The Minister of Agriculture and the government have blocked the ears of our farmers and feeders. The tradesman can't afford it, can't sell it. Tens of thousands of trades go bankrupt every year. The number of trades that went bankrupt between 2014 and 18 is 430,000, so 100,000 tradesmen go bankrupt every year because of you. There's no government, there's no trade rooms, there's no stock markets. ▪ Fear waits for the mountains. There is a saying. Unions, NGOs, vocational rooms are blind, deaf. More than that, they're swallowing their tongues. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, officers are the face of the state. The government doesn't smile if the officers don't smile. It's called the government's face. Today, at the top of the most unhappy and unsettled social community in our country, government officials come, not only because of the lack of wages they receive, but because beyond that, in the public place of public authority with the AK PARTI, they are replaced by liabilities, experience, and savings. Rights, law and justice have been rescinded in public. In addition, discrimination has gone beyond just political and ideological; it extends to union discrimination, sectarian and secular discrimination. As someone who has personally experienced the practices of power for over 15 years, I say this with open heart, and I say this at the point where I confirm my commitments as referee to the public-organized labor and civil servants' unions. Go ask TÜRK-İSİSK, ask Turkey's KAMU-SEN, ask the DİSK, ask the KESK, a question to the CAMU-İsti executives, for God's sake; ask the public where you've brought labor and civil service to in 16 years. You don't have to ask them, you did it together, you did it together, you did it together, you did it together, you did it together. Why would you ask them? Dear MPs, as a nation, the only one responsible for our suffering after July 15th betrayal is the political power. July 15th is the result of the choice of the congregation and its allies rather than the merit, experience, and driver's license. There was a saying of Istanbul's Yenikapı after that betrayal, what a beautiful saying it was: the spirit of the new door. There was a magnificent painting that day in Yenikapi, where millions were there, where political leaders were there. In that beautiful painting, one heart was integrated into one soul, the Turkish nation: there is no other Turkey, there is no other Turkish nation, we are all brothers. There will be no discrimination, no nepotism; Turkey will be united. It has been said. However, the Yenikapi spirit remained in the waters of Istanbul. As the spirit of the new door never came to the capital, it didn't even pass by public institutions; it didn't even cross the side of the ministers of power, it didn't even cross the edge; it was the same thing. You're back, there's more discrimination, more nepotism, more ally assignments. The AKP government did something even worse: it violated the Constitution and the laws, mopped Law 657, organized the republic of fear in the country and in the public, and subjected tens of thousands of employees to judicial execution because of the KHK. There are no extraditions to the work of over 17,000 acquitted civil servants today. This is an important consequence for you in order to show you the extent of your persecution. Dear MPs, the President of the IRS, you know, is the most important institution to collect our country's taxes. It consists of employees who do the best of public service. Officers raised in the Treasury Department are public servants who have created awareness everywhere they go. But they will never be given their due. So there's an understanding in the IRS that the IRS doesn't light candles, they work hard, they earn little. Hopefully, during the new Minister's time, those IRS employees' problems will sort themselves out.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0018par0249	Pack it up, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0013par0250	The special exam for income expertise must be opened. Mr. Naci Agbal, the former Minister, has a promise, and promises must be kept because we have been taught that continuity is essential in the state. The income experts must be given 3,600 additional indicators, and the central and country expert discrimination must be terminated by income management. The only institution without service in Ankara is the Treasury. It's in the Ministry, but it's not in the other IRS. Such injustice does not befit the IRS, nor does it befit the IRS. Yes, valuable lawmakers, if there are no economic problems in our country, if all is well, we demand an increase in our president's salary in 2019, to the officer, pension, minimum wage, labor, subcontractor workers, as well as a 26 per cent increase. You walked along these roads with his officer, his farmer, his pensioner, and there's no harm you're saying now. He got wet with his song. He got wet with the citizen's raises, all the songs you're listening to now...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0019par0253	He got mixed up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0020par0254	Don't push it, you're confused.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0021par0255	We'll have a tape offer soon!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0022par0256	Don't push it, don't push it. You're pushing yourself too hard. You're pushing too hard.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0023par0257	Pack it up, Mr. Uphill.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0024par0258	I've had it, I've had it, I've had it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0025par0259	Is that enough? Listen, we're almost there. Listen carefully here.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0024par0260	It's empty, it's empty, it's too much.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0026par0261	Don't push it, don't push it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0025par0262	You walked down these roads with his officer, his farmer, his pensioner.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0024par0263	We're walking with people, it's okay. We're walking with people.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0026par0264	You got it mixed up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0025par0265	What you're saying now is that there's no crisis. It's wet with the song. In the rain of the citizen's raises, all the songs you're listening to now, there's a budget for Saraya, and there's no citizens.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0026par0266	Yeah, you got it mixed up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0027par0267	You're reading in the wrong place, you're reading in the wrong place.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0025par0268	There's a budget for the palace, no pensions, no workers, no officers, no YITs, no palaces, no citizens? Is that your justice? Good-bye. Have a good day.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0028par0271	You got it mixed up, you got it mixed up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0029par0272	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0030par0273	Mr. President of the Group, I'd appreciate it if you'd give me a collective evaluation after we've run out of good P.R.P.P.P.P.P. Speakers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0029par0274	Mr. President, this is not a matter of promises to the group's vice presidents at the opening of the House every day. It's clear here that our group...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0030par0275	I get it. No, you...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0029par0276	Then according to Article 69, I demand word, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0030par0277	There's no word off the agenda in the budget, but...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0029par0278	I don't want anything off the agenda, sir. The preacher does it all the time.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0031par0279	Mr. President, you said you'd give it to me last.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0032par0280	There's a decision like this made by the groups yesterday, Mr. President, in between.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0031par0281	Mr. President, no teasing; you've made up your mind from the beginning, so take your decision.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0033par0282	Mr. Secretary will answer anyway, Mr. Secretary will answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0034par0283	For the record, sir, I'd like to express this.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0033par0284	Mr. Secretary will answer. It's about the budget...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0035par0285	Let's get him on record.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0034par0286	I'd like to point out that every time the preacher takes the stand, he enters a cumulative accusation against our group, based on no data, no information, in general terms.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0036par0287	There's obviously some bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0034par0288	It's as if the past has drawn up the minutes from 20 years and 30 years ago and adapted them to today's agenda. I repeat: On the one hand, the data is in the middle, our budget is written, documented in the book, but if you don't accept our group, if you don't like the testimony... every time the deputy president of the group says that the statement of the nation is not the only reality in the chest. Yes, of course, the will of our nation is important, but we say: The account book is in the middle, the actions are in the middle; social benefits, public investments are in the middle; if you don't pay attention to them, the will of the people is in the final analysis. I'd like to put that on the record.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0289	Thank you, Mr. Group Vice President, has filed a report.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0038par0290	Why is the minister sitting there? Let the Minister answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0034par0291	Decisions made regarding the State of Emergency are also decisions made in the context of fighting Å. I'd like to express to the High Council that we don't always reject decisions about the State of Emergency as well as their efforts to discredit the State of Emergency.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0293	I give you my word to Mr. Hasan Subaş, our Antalya MP. Here you go. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0039par0296	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0297	Later.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0039par0298	I'll tell you what. Let's not accept such public teasing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0299	That's what we thought. Of course, if you want me to, of course I promise. In the budget process...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0039par0300	Mr. Cahit, don't take this lightly, it's not even decent.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0040par0301	Mr. President, either we stand by the principle decision...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0302	You weren't here, Mr. Engin was here, this is...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0040par0303	I know, Mr. President, I know about this. So either we stand by this decision, or we don't stop at all, so if it's really going to happen in between, let's all take turns with the group's deputy presidents.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0041par0304	Mr. President, let's do that.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0305	Yeah, okay. After the groups are finished, there will be evaluations. I also sent word to Yavuz Bey.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0042par0306	Look for the men there, over there. I've fought with the people.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0043par0307	Look, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's coming, he's
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0037par0308	Mr. Hasan Subaş, come in, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0044par0309	Get ready, get ready, there's more to come. Let the hour come. Let's go!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0045par0310	Don't you ever say that again, call the people there.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0044par0311	There's no turning back this time. Let's go!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0046par0312	Mr. Cahit, don't tease us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0044par0313	There's no going back this time.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0046par0314	Don't you dare! Come on, I beg you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0047par0315	Look for it with you, lots of it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0044par0316	Tell the friend. There's no turning back this time.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0046par0317	Don't do this to us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0044par0318	Not this time, I swear. The shoe and the nail.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0048par0319	Here you go, Mr. Subas.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0049par0320	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of my well-being group regarding the Treasury and Finance Ministry's budget law proposal and its dependent Public Contraction Agency. AS OUR GOOD PARTY MP İsmail Tatüoğlu had just pointed out in 2002, the AK PARTI government, which did structural reforms, ran the economic process well until 2007. At that time, I believe there was a period when, under the influence of the age of apprentice, there was a time when the word "outer enemy" did not use the word "inside enemy"; there was a time when knowledge was heard, shared, and political will came to a conclusion, arguing with political staff, and there was a truly successful process. Structural reforms were done well. That's what I'm promised. It was also adopted by the Public Contract Act 4734 and by Law 4735 in 2002. The Public Contraction Act, adopted in 2002, was a reform. According to this law, public resources would be efficient; in each tender, openness, transparency, competition was well prepared, and even the law of Article 5 was laid out as follows: ▪In the terms of this law, the laws, according to the Law, have been changed 186 times, this law, which is called transparentness, competition, equal treatment, security, secrecy, public control, the proper conditions and efficient use of resources. In fact, we're looking at today's budget, and today's budget is the only one with a budget reduced by 20 per cent, reduced from 187 billion to 150 billion, in terms of this institution and this law. The Public Contraction Act and Public Contraction Agency have lost its attributes and have been breached in many ways. The EU Progress Report 2018 still has no criticism of the proposed amendments to the anti-corruption strategy. The Anti-Corruption Action Plan, mentioned in 2016, has not yet been implemented. Turkey must fully implement its United Nations Anti-Corruption Convention, which it signed. It has its proposal and its warnings. However, because of the perforation of the Law on Contraction and the way it was brought in today, the resources of the public have become unusable. Again, as Mr. Tatekoglu pointed out, the credibility of public institutions is only in the world, and it's the confidence and dignity that attracts money, attracts capital, attracts investments. The President's offices and the purchases of goods and services of presidents have been removed from the tender system under the rule of law 703. Again, any purchases of goods and services of the presidency have been negotiated. The same KHK and the Treasury and Finance Ministry have been brought exceptions, and the Turkish Radio and Television Law has been changed -- again, from institutions that have been excluded -- the Public Contracts Act, the Public Contracts Act, and the institution has been worn out. Other institutions such as the Savings Exchange Insurance Fund (TMSF), development agencies, Turkish Investment Support Agency, the asset Fund were also removed from this law's control and field. Also, an audit report cannot be published. Again, in the last few months, the Tourism Collection Act has been changed in 2018. A number of national parks are being pushed out of the plan and these tourist areas in the form of non-integrated allocations can be assigned to tourists, and the institution that will allow the allocation is also the presidency. I think that instead of all allocations to the presidency -- I want to make a suggestion -- that the risk management institution should be established in Turkey. Accidents, disasters, and neglect in recent years have become common. See, the answer to the question motion of an MP from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security is: (In 2011 there were 69,227 occupational accidents, 274,782 workplace accidents in 2016. In five years, business accidents increased by 250 per cent, and deaths by thousands. It's obvious we're living in the last roller coaster disaster. Sadly, the scissor - as far as I can see - did not get enough training on TV, was being instructed by telephone. When we look at these accidents and deaths, most of the time we see unsatisfactory, immature employees working. Our people's lives shouldn't be so cheap. Turkey's Chamber of Machine Engineers reported a reason for this: the instigation of engineering savings, the presumption of images in the interest of political interests, the speed of the human life, the speed of the speed of the faster train. It was noted in the report that a non-scientific approach -- such as a fast train -- was dominated by an unscientific approach. Is there really anything wrong with that? So I'm saying that by creating a presidential risk management institution, the possibility is that there are areas in Turkey that are risky, that are likely to have accidents -- including mines -- and possible risks --
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0050par0330	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0049par0331	There is a need for a staff of experts to determine the dangers that could take lives, that could cost lives; such an institution is needed. Any allocation is more important than any authority, any source of money, one-handedness, and those risks must be eliminated. Human safety and loss of life should not be so cheap in Turkey. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0050par0334	The order belongs to Tekirdağ MP Enez Kaplan Bey. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0051par0337	Shouldn't we talk, Mr. President? May I tease the ruling group, please, Mr. President? Do you mind if I pick on you?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0052par0338	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI regarding the budgets of the President of the Privatisation Administration and the Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards. I salute you all. Precious lawmakers, privatisation is the transfer of public property management to private persons or institutions, but to reduce or eliminate the state's presence within the economy, it means transfering the property and services produced by public institutions and institutions to the private sector. The effects of privatisation have led to increased unemployment in developing countries, poor job security, different wage practices, and widespread subcontractorization; it has affected work life, and especially its negative effects have been highlighted for employees. In our country, we see the privatisation of public institutions as an intense alienation. It is determined that the privatised institutions in our country are sold to foreigners. New employers have gone through individual contracts instead of collective contracts. Employees' wages are down, their hours are up. There have been layoffs, personnel purges. As a result, the effects of privatisation on employees and working life are seen as changes in employment level, layoffs and unemployment, un unionisation, changes in collective contracts, change in wage structure, decrease in wages, change in working conditions, decline in social security. However, rights, such as income distribution, employment, collective contracts, must be maintained before the privatisation of institutions and organizations will be victimised. Members of parliament, the sale of sugar factories, one of our country's major revenue companies, has also led our country's beets producers to an uncertain future. From the sale of these factories, beets makers, workers, locals, tradesmen, cattlemen, transport workers were directly affected. Sugar beets are in the fields. Privatized factories don't get sugar beets, they have quota problems. Just candy factories, guys? Of course not. Similar problems occur in all other privatised institutions. Many of the valuable properties of public, privatised or sold companies have been replaced by malls or residences. Some of these are: Tekirdağ, where thousands of families make a living in Tekirdağ, the TEKEL liquor factory is blowing up, the factory is now destroyed, and thousands of square metres of land is unknown, and the privatizing company has been sold to others. Instead of the Ankara Et Balık Combina, the AVM was replaced by the AVM and the residences of the building of the highways on İstanbul Chainlikuyu, and the AVM instead of the Samsun Cigarette Factory. We can replicate these samples in all the provinces. Who has benefited from these actions, and who has been moistened, my friends? By the Privatisation Supreme Council, construction has been changed in the district of Hayrabolu, my constituency district, in the area of Hayrabolu. Factories have been built instead of producing, and its land has been decided to be converted into a housing area. The company that buys the factory will be able to build all kinds of commercial structures and dwellings here, including the mall or the luxury residences. In addition, the Privatisation Supreme Council has blocked the appeal to zoning changes. The main purpose of privatisation on the page of the Privatisation Administration is to ensure that the state is finally withdrawn from business in the economy. In this sentence, where is the protection of the rights of our people working in the privatized institutions? Mr. President, lawmakers have said that consumer inflation has declined 3.62 points year-on-year from the previous month as of November in a budget speech. At the same time, he said, our export reached its highest value so far, with $168 billion in November year-on-year. At the same time, it states that in 2018 our exports to the European Union increased 15.5 per cent, and in 2018, our tourism revenues reached $28.9 billion year-on-year with 38.9 million people year-on-month. As it turns out, everything in our country is so bright, we don't live in this country. [[!]] Last week, under this roof, you issued the Law on the Initiation of Following the Relations to Money Buyers. Guys, you know what you're describing with this law is that there's an economic crisis in this country. In 2008, executive files reached an estimated 20 million in 2018 when they were 5 million. What is it? Our citizen couldn't pay his subscription bills, but the executive offices were very, very busy. That's why the bosses you've created in your timeline, privatizing everything, can't just collect their money through execution. And to do that, you'd have to make it easier for the executives! According to the Justice Commission report, population growth and economic growth have been reflected in the number of executive agencies to increase their number of jobs. Despite many improvements to both physics and electronic infrastructure, this has caused complaints and negative images in executive agencies. In my opinion, this sentence would have been more meaningful if it had been written as: "We failed to plan education after ten years of population growth. We've distributed grants and loans for investments in economic growth, resources to create added value and employment, instead of the right people, to our supporters. As a result, our citizens are no longer able to pay their bills in this beautiful country, which we have brought to this day by economic instability. That is why the executive offices throughout the country are locked up. ▪ Wouldn't it be better to write like this? If you had created an economic model that would have made our citizens forget their livelihood and kept their bills up, if you could have done it, there wouldn't have been 20 million executive files that would have invaded the court corridors today. Congressmans, Mr. Secretary, again, we received a strong 7.7 per cent growth performance in 2019 in the speech of the budget presentation. With this growth performance, Turkey has become the fastest growing country among the G20 countries. It says that 20 million executive files are not in this country, and last week it sounds like they didn't make the law on collecting these executive files. He may be right, because there's no economic problems in the country, but people can't pay their bills; everything's fine in the country; there's no need to panic, but people can't pay their bills again; the country's a riot, but the nation can't pay their bills. You know, every time after every election, you say, "Thank you, Turkey." You say, "Thank you, Turkey." And I say to my sainted nation from here, "Now it's your turn to pay the bill." I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0053par0353	In turn, Adana MP Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0054par0356	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group to express my views on the 2019 Turkish Statistical Agency budget. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers prepare an official statistical programme, monitor the functioning of the programme, and examine the fitness of statistical information produced by other institutions, according to TİİK Law 5429. In doing so, the profession serves under the basics of independence, data-valuement, competence of resources, quality commitment, statistical secrecy, neutrality and transparency, reliable methodology, accuracy and credibility, doing business in time, consistency and comparisonability, clarity and accessibility. Of course, the TİK must serve according to these principles. The right use of the country's resources, the soundness of our economy, the introduction of all public institutions and private sector data to the public in professional independence, right, consistent and transparent, is also important for the efficiency of public institutions, as it is important for every level of commercial life. Dear lawmakers, TÜİK has begun to calculate its credibility based on unknown administrative data from the Ministry of Finance's Finance Administration, by removing the method of enforcing and calculated growth rates from all production data, still not explaining why. Another irregularity is the year 2009, based on the calculation of the illegitimate domestic patient. This year is a year when the economy is greatly shrinking under the influence of the 2008 crisis. This year, it has been based on larger than the next rate. From now on, TİK growth data will be considered distorted data by the effort to positiveise real data. With the inflation explanations of the TÜİK, the real inflation rate you do not want to give to our employees and pensioners is going to cost the state a lot of money. Of course the answer our nation will give you. Remember, your biggest income is working and retiring again. Look, right after the release of September 2018 inflation, which broke the real inflation record for the last 15 years, Vice President Enver Taşti, who was the head of the unit explaining the inflation figures, was immediately relieved of his post. Why? Because he shared the actual number of inflation with the public, such a perception arose. No matter what you do, no matter who you depose, no matter who you bring in, you may not feel the fire in the kitchen, believe me, our citizens feel the fire up to their lungs. Dear lawmakers, according to university calculations, Turkey's economic growth average for this side from 1960 is 4.5 per cent. The ten-year growth rate between 2008 and 18 is 3.9. When we look at inflation, at the end of 2002, TÜFE was 29.7 per cent, and TFE was 30.8 per cent. According to TÜKİK (TÜFE) in October 2018 (TÜFE) was 25.2 per cent and 45 per cent in TÜFE. As the painting shows, Turkey's economy has returned to 2002 in 16 years of AK PARTY rule. Turkey became the world's 10th highest inflation country, with the highest inflation rate of 15 years, as a result of twelve months of inflation rising 25.24 per cent in October. I regret to say, Turkey has been reduced to the country in inflation, which is remembered for its third world countries. How sad is it today that the government, which is waiting to close its budget for 2018 with an interest of 72 billion euros, has written down 117 billion of its revenues in oil products, natural gas, motor vehicle taxes, alcoholic beverages, sodas, resilience products, tobacco products, 164 billion 316,000 euros worth of UTV revenues in interest. I mean, 72% of his tax on small incomes, pensions, pensions, civil servants, laborers, tradesmen have been vaporized by interest. The most affected by VAT and OTV, referred to as indirect tax, are pensioners, workers, civil servants, tradesmen. In this budget, most of the burden of 164 billion 31 million and 56,000 euros in revenues is on the shoulders of our small-income citizens. Again, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury revised its revenues by increasing revenues by 23.2 per cent the previous year in the financial household. Under the circumstances, let's increase wages and increase minimum wage by 26.5 percent, to relieve the burden that you've put on our minimum wage, our pensioner, our officer, so that we can enjoy the pleasure of using the power they've given us for the welfare of our citizens. Dear friends, real growth can be achieved by an economy that is not speculative; economic growth based on production; foreign trade surplus based on exports; on sectoral basis, the highest industrial added value. Turkey, however, is trying to grow free of production, based on imports, foreign debt and construction, and is failing even in this. What does that mean? It's a government system that earns revenue from consumption, not from production, but from the value. Even if our country's foreign trade deficit is 51.6 billion dollars in exports, it's not a sustainable value, even if it's 43.3 per cent after a courtship increase. Now, that's what happens to the foreign trade of the fast-eating country. In 15 years, we didn't make it to the plus, so obviously we can't get out. Non-producing virtual growth does not improve the acquisition rate, nor does unemployment rate decrease. As industry's share in the economy gets smaller and smaller, without creating a plus value, Turkey has to look at the undetermined hot money from where it comes from. To make the numbers look good, often the method changes make it difficult for them to measure healthy, and the numbers are presented with pink tables. These pink paintings don't feed our nation, they don't cure unemployment and poverty. Did he or did he not feed these people 50 cents' worth of onions, a dollar's worth of potatoes, 8 liras' worth of AK PARTY government? Our nation doesn't know the virtual growth you're explaining on paper; they know the real numbers in your house, in your kitchen, in the marketplace, in the market, in the real fire. You'll see that our people, who are concerned about not being able to bring food home to their children, will give you the answer you need in the March 31st Local Elections. Dear lawmakers, my local people from Adana, the producer and exporter of narcissists and exporters in my constituency, and our producers and exporters in our other provinces are victims. The Russian Federation, Iraq and Ukraine constitute 70 per cent of the narcissistic export market. In some years -- as this year -- there are problems in exports because of economic or political problems with these countries. In 2017, $2.4 billion in exports were exported to the Chinese People's Republic, which ranked the 1st among the countries our country imported so as not to be a problem in exporting. I specifically ask that the People's Republic of China take care of the export agreement with the narcissist on behalf of my people. The DFIF, or Support Price Stabilisation Fund, must be paid at $150 per ton this year, as it has been in the past years. Also, in exports to the Far East, I expect the support of the navlu per 50 dollars/ton, with respect to your great delegation, hoping that the budget will be good for our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0055par0369	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0056par0370	Mr. Yavuz, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0055par0373	Mr. President, I'm responding to Mr. Cahit. I'm picking on him, sir. I need to express something in person. This is what we call law, which is pretty much the first thing that men who are interested in these things have read in their first sentence: it can be equal to anyone, so one thing is law. The mechanism you call law is exactly what brings government rulers to the privilege of gathering the prophets: to do the same thing to everyone. It seems to me that our lord -- let us believe in it -- that the people before you -- have suffered a great deal of hardship because they knew what was about to happen to them -- that they forgave them, that they might be forgiven, that they might forgive them, that they might forgive them, that they might forgive them, that they might forgive them, and that the people before them might be poor, and that they might punish them. So God destroyed all those people. After that, they said the word that was famous to all of you, to all of us, if it were Fatima, daughter of the Prophet. Now, the reason why we object to the extraordinary state of affairs here is that if the law can't work as a mechanism in a country, then the law returns to this, and I will say, as our minister is here, that the law minister and the poorest of the law are the most powerful and the weakest of all, and the ability to be able to harvest the prophets in private. So don't look at what I've studied in those schools, I'm the son of an honorable mother and father. A country, a nation's son who looks at the same criteria, and a country, a nation's son may be in prison. That's what law is all about. So if the rule is defined, if the defined rule is crime, it's equal to everyone, the looker, the stranger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0057par0377	Get it together, Mr. Sekalalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0055par0378	The rule is defined, everyone's equality becomes a provision of heaven for you and for us. Now, what we mean by the enjoyment of the mechanism in Turkey is this: the same sentences, the sensitivity of the President about the State of Emergency, the sentences he used to say, read with what words he used to say when he removed them, and then we'll talk about it again. Surely there is wisdom when we lift it up, and there is wisdom when we bring it in. Let's at least make the consultations healthy. It's not the center of your desire to make political accusations; it's the center of things that we can discuss, that we can talk about. I mean, I've told you before not to try to get a member out of us because we've reproached you before, and I'm counting it as a big tease.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0057par0380	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0055par0381	We've grown to say that congregations can't be states, but without state and state, each congregation will try to become states. We're not just saying that for the sake of the L.A. Even then, even when the organization was a political, administrative, bureaucratic force, we were saying in favor of your government's vision of permission, that if there were no state, the congregations would be states. For the greatest congregation is the state. Thus, now it has not rested, it has been made, it has been established, it has been established. Let this not stick to us because we politically have covered our language with Teflon, and let it stick to you. Please don't try to draw our Teflon in order to make sure that we're covered. So what we're asking is this: we're talking about the Adjective, the Government is responsible for what we say. At least be advised in the budget discussion that the management of our websites will respond to our systems. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0057par0384	Thank you. We've had an MP who's been asking for word for 60 over the last two hours. Here you go, Mr. Taytak. I promise you for a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0058par0389	Thank you, Mr. President. The beginning of our history is Turkistan, the main source of our culture. Today, it's almost dark in the Middle Ages. This Islamic geography of Muslim Uygurs is a land where important names such as Mahmoud of Kashgar, Yusuf Has Hadjip, Jesus Joseph Alptekin, are raised. This land is also persecuted from 1949 to today. Jesus Joseph Alptekin, who worked importantly for the future and future of the Turkish people, died on 17 December 1995. On the 23rd anniversary of the death of Jesus Joseph Alptekin, hero of East Turkistan's struggle for freedom, I commend the case of East Turkistan to you. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0059par0394	Thank you. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0060par0397	Thank you, Mr. President. On August 7, 2016, the Yenikapı rally was held in Yenikapı, where millions of nationals participated in the excitement and enthusiasm of our citizens. This meeting was attended at the level and institutional level of leadership, including the Justice and Development Party, the National Movement Party, the Republican People's Party, the Grand Union Party and the President of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and the Chief of General Staff at the time. It is the national unity and unity spirit that has been shown in the first and especially on July 15th by the traitor, the nation's response to the coup attempt of the low-life terrorist organization and against the great dangers our country faces, and is a total standoff. It has just been addressed by two public speakers and has been referred to in different ways, even though it was made during the 57th government period. First of all, I'd like to say that almost all of the reforms related to the financial system and the economy were carried out during the 57th Government. In fact, banking reform, the restructuring of public banks, budget and spending arrangements were mostly made before the 2001 economic crisis.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0059par0400	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0060par0401	For example, BDDK was founded on June 23, 1999 by Law 4389. And a significant part of these reforms continued after the 2001 crisis and were largely completed during the 57th Government. I also expressed our views on this matter. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0059par0403	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0061par0405	Mr. President, in an argument about the budget and the Finance Ministry in private, in order to co-operate in an assessment, I think we need to be more specific about where the tax is sitting in a relationship between the state and the citizen. In fact, in Jonah's poems, I think the word "people" is more accurate, more transparent, more accountable, and more comfortable describing a relationship. Look, if you establish a relationship between the state and society, in terms of the management of taxes, in terms of the ability to spend, there's a different power, there's a different will, and he's using the power, the power, the power to spend whatever he wants, whatever he wants. When you look at it like that, then the state-owned naval word will sit in its proper place, and it will spend it as it pleases the soul that sits at the head of that spring, who rules it. Sink loans are a product of this logic, where advertising for certain broadcasting organs is given from government banks, but if there is a reverse, it's actually being a taxpayer like some democratic countries -- in a line -- is a position of bossy position, it's a position of ownership, and it's a position of accountability. And when that happens, we'll talk about the position of everyone who pays taxes, and the position of being entitled to public property. Unfortunately, the relationship established today is not that kind of relationship in Turkey. And for him, the public property sensitivity has gone down the drain. On the contrary, access to public resources has been seen as an opportunity to become almost rich, unfairly rich, easily rich. Now, since it's expressed here from the bench, I specifically wanted to remind you of Jonah's public statement. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0062par0410	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0061par0411	Due to some talks, a member of parliament made an assessment on the speech of lawmakers on the stand who were paid by the state. Is what you're calling the government something different, other than the voters who voted for us, or is it the organization of the whole community? So when you're using that money, you're going to talk about it as well as knowing who you're getting it from? Look, at this time of the morning, again -- the only city not appointed trustees from our municipalities -- is the mayor of Iğdır, our 25th term MP, and our Tuzluca Mayors have been taken into custody for a alleged crime in 2015. They've been taken and left with the same claim before. Now, do voters in Iğdur feel that they are part of this whole when these budget talks are being held, or how do they perceive and read this treatment to politicians they choose in their cities?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0062par0414	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0061par0415	We're going to an election on March 31st, and when we say that these operations were a political operation before the elections, no, it's called a judicial process. Now, exactly, as long as the unfair competitive position that some speakers have just said for the economy continues in politics -- want the public to be sneaky and leave the municipality for another party -- this gives rise to the debate of legitimacy. No, we think it's probably going to be the opposite; the voters will probably own the city, even if they have criticism about the municipality we have, but the worst part is, as a result, as long as there are unjust detentions, arbitrary detentions in this country, there will be no way to put the economy back on track, and if you bring the world's best finance minister, he'll never be able to raise budgets in political instability and chaos. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0063par0418	Mr. Yasar Charter...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0064par0419	Our group didn't give a speech, Mr. President. We don't need any negotiations.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0063par0420	Well, they gave you authority, your group presidents.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0065par0421	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0063par0422	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0066par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, of course, justice is the foundation of property, the state, and praise be to this day, we are fighting to implement a judicial mechanism, which, in order to establish our citizens' confidence in justice, through constitutional and legal reforms in our group and in our government, again, in order to bring the rule of law to life, again, in the framework of universal law, in accordance with the principles of fair judgment. Of course, the law that should be follows a monopoly in the field of law, which is always dynamic. If there is a flaw, our House negotiates it, implements legal reforms, our lawyers judge and judge according to their consciences. Of course, I know they didn't mean us when we were talking about people who had just been destroyed, and that's clear. However, we're going to use theorological references again in the Qur'an... [[The reading of the 11th verse of Bacara by the preacher]] So at the beginning of the Great Book of God, it says, "Do not cause corruption on the earth." When they are told, "We are only reformers, and this one is not one of the parties in the House." What I'm trying to say is that if there's a court of law, the judiciary punishes a type, illegal, deliberate act when implementing a criminal law. The protection of personal data is constitutional and legal. What person in Turkey today did not act like this and face such a criminal conviction; what person did or did not go to the ground and face criminal action; there is no need to remove their statistics and share them with the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0067par0432	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0066par0433	Because this should be assessed under the protection of constitutionally secured personal data. However, when a judge and a judge go home in the evening, put their head on the pillow, we have to believe that when they're alone with their conscience, they have to make a fair decision. Look, if we have all our arguments in the House, if we open all the decisions on the judiciary here to negotiate, then we'll be facing a situation where the confidence in the judiciary we've always discussed has been compromised. At that time, I respectfully salute the General Assembly, which is part of the Constitution, in line with the understanding that the judiciary should make an impartial and independent trial, and that we should believe that the last time we have debates will be decided by judicial authorities, and that we should build confidence in the judiciary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0068par0435	One sentence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0069par0436	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0068par0438	This is something that the opposition would do more, including the judiciary, in principle, to put the measure on the whole of our talks in Congress. We say word, the government acts. We will reproach, the government will answer. We will question him, and the government will answer our questions with sound judgment. Now, why are we talking about this in this House? Because in front of us, we're going to plant the sword of Omar. There's a scoundrel called Zechariah Oz, who's now on the terrorist list. So the language of politics, at some point, has a share in the justice of Hazreti Omar. We're looking for a lot of scoundrels who are now called terrorists, who we've been saying things about clean hands, bad hands, bad hands and things like that. So remember when some of our politicians were hiding criminals in front of the army house. And I love that you remind me of the principle that only politics should oversee from then on, and I don't like that you don't. I mean, our president's... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0069par0441	Get it together, Mr. Sekalalioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0068par0442	I'll clean it up right away. Our president sometimes... in our country, our judgment may not be four-headed, but the government declares a moral code that must be obeyed. Our president rhymes with decisions that lead to the history of his own political vision. I don't obey the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and I don't respect them. So -- look, I'm not saying it fits, ha -- sometimes politics doesn't agree with the decision, and sometimes tries to get around it to disobey it. But the top official of the state, head of the state, I don't obey the Constitutional Court's decision, and I don't respect it. So it's up to us to obey you. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0070par0445	Mr. Baki, what is it?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0071par0446	Mr. President, Mr. Ayhan Bilgen has made a statement regarding my speech regarding receiving a salary from the state. I'd like to make a statement about that.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0070par0447	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0071par0449	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, we, the National Movement Party, are a party that always speaks clearly and clearly. We call the terrorist a terrorist. My speech is very clear. "We will not return from fighting for the destruction of the last terrorist who has the collar of his masters; we will not return from the state's pay; I salute the assembly with respect to those who salute the Kandil, those who salute the people's assembly, those who wink at the traitors, those who seek to legitimize terror, those who seek to legitimize terror, and those who seek to be buried and destroyed the last bloody weapon." We're not accusing any individual or organization of that, but we call the terrorist fucking terrorist. Our speech is very clear. And we stand by every word we say in the reports. He sends his regards, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0072par0454	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0073par0456	I don't intend to prolong the discussion either, obviously we have different approaches. For three years, talks were held within the information of security units, including the current President's special representative, the National Intelligence Agency, the Public Safety Undersecretary, the current President's special representative, the National Security Council, so that the mothers would not cry or bleed in this country. And all over the world, if there's a way to solve a problem that's easier, to solve it more reasonably, to solve it with less price. If we're here today to host the house without plaster, but there's a martyr flag every day, it's not just a speech that's responsible for politics. Look, if you'd like to have another discussion about the baby killer, go to Google, and you'll see what you're going to evaluate. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0074par0460	Don't put Ayhan Threshold and Abdullah Ocalan together, it's not that bad.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0073par0461	It's his word, I think you've got it all wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit01spe0075par0462	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0075par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account C) KAMU IHALE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. Let's move on to the talks on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. The first statement is from Eskişehir MP Emine Nur Günay. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0076par0042	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group on the budget of the Treasury and Finance Ministry under the Central Management Budget Proposal for 2019. I salute you and the Supreme Court. Let's take a look at Turkey and the world economy as it enters 2019, after the last ten years of financial bailout packages, financial and economic crises, a very severe recession and a very weak recovery period. The loss of momentum, tightening financial conditions in the European economy, uncertainty about the Brexit process, increasing protection in foreign trade, commercial tensions between America-Chinese and even trade wars, geopolitical risks and increasing uncertainties have negatively affected exports and investments and economic growth worldwide, economic growth and global trade regression. Global growth, 3.7% in 2017, is expected to remain at the same level in 2018 and 2019. The growth rate of the world trade is expected to fall from 5.2 per cent to 4 per cent in 2017 to 3.4 per cent in 2018, maintaining that trend in 2019. Against these risks in global trade, Turkey is preparing to break the record of Turkish Republic of Turkey in exports. While global trade is shrinking, one of the most effective factors in Turkey's export success in 2018 is the support of our government. The increase in export support for $3 billion, support for R&D and design centres, accession support for e-commerce sites, green passport, increased capital for EXIMBANK, financing and employment support for our companies. Export priorities and strategies have been changed, market diversity has been increased, deepening activities have been carried out in current markets, but most importantly, innovation and RD have been prioritized. So, why did I share all this with you? Because today, foreign trade and current balance are now at the final stage, and technology is implementing all support for intensive production and exports. In industry, technological transformation and technology are an intensive production model, one of the priorities of our industrial policy. The vision of Turkey's Industrial Strategy 2015-2018 was determined to be the design and production base of Afro-Avrisya (Avrusya) in medium high and high-tech products. As human beings, we all forget the positive things, we get used to them, but we forget things very quickly. Let's remember: Turkey's public debt stock and budget deficit has a national income rate that is well below the European Union's developed countries and Maastricht Criters. In 2002, the national income rate of our country's European Union-defined stockpile of general government debt was reduced to 28.4 per cent by the end of the first quarter of 2018. It is less than half of Maastricht Criters, 60%, which is 81.5 per cent for the European Union average. The general state deficit is expected to be 2.4 in 2018 and 1.6 per cent in 2019. Again, these rates are quite low, compared to the budget deficits of developed and developing countries, below the Maastricht Criterers, 3%. In the new Economic Programme, fiscal discipline is also the basis of economic policy. As a result, in a year of local elections, a budget still pays more than $36.7 billion in interest. And let's say that this capacity is added to the potential of an off-the-book economy. As a result of the fight against the off-the-book economy, the national income rate of the unregistered economy dropped from 32.4 per cent in 2002 to 26 per cent. Have you ever calculated the alternative cost of nearly 700 billion dollars in counterterrorism? When we think that potential is added to the current capacity, we can all imagine where we're going to reach. It's about twice our current economic capacity.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0077par0049	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0076par0050	What other country in this geography is fighting a multidimensional and simultaneous struggle both inside and outside -- military, economic, social, cultural struggle? Have you considered what kind of Turkey we would be talking about today, now, if it weren't for measures taken by the AK PARTY authorities over the past 16 years on economic and financial construction and appreciated by the world? I'll leave it to your conscience and appreciation. I wish the budget of 2019, the most fundamental supporter of the balancing process in the new Economy Programme, to be good for our country and our nation, and to salute our great Assembly. May our paths and our hearts flow, our paths and our hearts be with you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0077par0053	Erzurum MP Zehra Taşkesenlioğlu is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Taşkesenlioğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0078par0056	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the esteemed representative of the administration, the Honorable Minister, I salute you all. I'd like to share with you a great honor and pride that we've had. In almost any country in the world, 16 years in a row came to power alone and budgeted alone, except the EC PARTY. In this sense, I would like to express our gratitude to all our citizens who have given us this honor and pride. But, of course, in each budget period, we've become a global force by building sustainable and inclusive growth under the influence of honor and pride. Turkey has discovered its true potential with the AK PARTI authorities and has become a global power by transforming its potential into a performance. As the global economy continued to grow in 2017, Turkey had achieved 7.4 per cent as the fastest growing country among the G20 countries in 2017, especially since 2014, as soon as the 17-25 December operations, the Travel Park operations, the July 15th operations. In 2018, Turkey's economy continued to grow 6.2 per cent. However, at that time, just after the June 24th elections, there were financial fluctuations that could never be seen in reality as a result of the war of courtship, the manipulative courtship. However, the strong leadership, which eliminates it, and the movement under its leadership, and the transition of the crisis to a TL, to ensure trust and balance in the economy, to eliminate the lack of liquidity, to perform effective and efficient functioning in the markets, through the Swap transactions of banks, by the regulation of the blocking rates in deposit accounts, by the housing of export prices, by the introduction of the amount of money to rent and purchases in the stock markets, and by the beginning of the implementation of the above-step rule, very thankfully, very clear. Again, unfortunately, in this period, even though inflation has increased a little bit, especially due to the impact of the courtship wars, we have tried to continue to keep the demand alive by the end of December with the SV and VAT reductions, and again, as a result, we have achieved the All-Flation Fighting Programme, and the TUFE has reduced by 21.62 per cent in November. Again, someone has seen again how safe the banking system in Turkey is. To those in power in Turkey, I would like to remind you that because their banking performance at the time of power was bad, in 2001 alone 25 banks had to pay off the $350 billion debt to the people of this country. And again, despite the IMF, who paid for it, despite the World Bank, it became the power of the AK PARTI. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] As a result of the balancing and discipline of our new economic policy, our economy began to recover rapidly. A few indicators are important, because numbers never lie. We raised our central bank reserves from 84 billion to 92 billion in September, and, again, one of the most important indicators, the Purchasing Directors Index rose from 42.7 per cent to 44.7 per cent. The Economy Trust Index, the most important and inclusive indicator of trust in the economy, increased 9.1 per cent in November; the Real Kesim Trust Index increased 6.3 per cent. The consumer Trust Index has also increased by four percent in consumer size. So despite these courtship wars, our people have been united with their power, and the power, together with the nation, has been able to stand together in front of all the courtship wars. Of course, fiscal discipline is one of the most important pillars of our endurance toward external shocks. And by maintaining fiscal discipline with precision, we've made it the most important tool in our economic policy. In the financial field that we created, using this to support the growth of the economy, on the other hand, we've divided this source into our most basic needs, such as education, health, transport, and we've divided 40 per cent of our budget into this, creating the concept of a capacitive budget in the Republic of Turkey. We've provided foreign funding within the framework of Treasury financing programmes, $7.7 billion in international capital markets. In our strong financial structure, we began to conduct a number of special studies to spread the tax system to a simpler, more understandable, more efficient, and wider base, and especially to increase the level of tax harmonisation of our taxpayers to speed up the transition to the registered economy. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, the budget of 2019 will be an important step towards reaching the goals of the New Economic Programme. With this step, we will build a strong bridge between the stabilisation, discipline, change, and stable high growth process that we predict in the economy. I wish the first budget of the presidential government system to be good luck and good luck to our country, to our nation, to all who have done it, to all who have done it, to all who have done it, to all who have done it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0079par0067	Giresun MP Cemal Özturk Bey is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Cemal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0080par0070	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the EC PARTY Group on the budget of our Treasury and Finance Ministry in 2019. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. We're discussing the 17th budget of the presidential government's 1st, EC PARTY governments. I'd like to express my gratitude to our nation, who has been a constant supporter of us since 2002 and has led us to discuss the 17th budget. (1/276) The original 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal was submitted to the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on October 17th under Article 161 of the Constitution, and on October 18th the presidency sent it to the Plan and Budget Commission. The talks of the proposal continued in the Commission for a full month, between October 23rd and November 22nd. I thank all my fellow commissioners who contributed in these budget talks, and I am a member of the Commission. In the end, on December 10th, last week, we started discussing the budget in our General Assembly on Monday, and today is the ninth day, hopefully, we'll vote the entire budget on Friday, and hopefully, it'll go into effect as of January 1st. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, social needs like individual needs are limitless, and resources to meet these needs are limited. Like individuals, the state must balance between limited public resources and unlimited demands, while maintaining its spending. Therefore, the government makes budgets, plans revenues and expenses. The state, which is obliged to perform public services, establishes the balance between the needs of society and public income through the budget. The budget is the plan and programme of government spending with revenue forecasts for a future period. 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal costs 961 billion liras, 881 billion liras and 80 billion liras open, extra 38 billion Turkish liras without interest. The budget funds for 2019 increased by 26 per cent compared to 2018. This increase corresponds to about 198 billion Turkish liras. Apart from the increases and reductions in these other pencils, only 50 percent are expenditures on staff costs and social security institutions, and 12 percent are interest costs. In 2019, interest costs are expected to increase from 63.6 per cent from 71.7 billion to 117.3 billion Turkish dollars due to an increase in interest rates and foreign currency rates in 2018. I'd like to say that we are grateful to our citizens, who are taxing our government, our nation, our economy, our fund-raisers. Central management budget revenues in 2019 were estimated to be 880.4 billion Turkish liras, with 17.4 per cent increase. 86% of these revenues will be obtained from taxes, 14 per cent from non-tax revenues. When we look at the basic macroeconomic indicators based on the budget, it has been estimated that for 2019, the growth of GDP at fixed prices would be 2.3 per cent and the inflation at the end of the year would be 15.9 per cent. While budget revenues and expense estimates are being made, it is estimated that the informal domestic product will actually grow 2.3 per cent, the TÜFE will become 15.9 per cent, exports will reach 182 billion and imports will reach 244 billion US dollars.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0081par0078	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0080par0079	When we look at budget sizes, the deficit is estimated to be 1.8 per cent in 2019 and 1.9 per cent in 2020, and 1.7% in 2021. The extracurricular surplus is estimated to be 0.8 per cent in 2019 and 1.3% in turn in 2020 and 2021. In 2019, the largest share of the budget was divided into national education as usual; 161 billion dollars is 21 percent of tax revenues. The healthy share is 157 billion liras. By the way, the share for agricultural benefits is $26.5 billion. Especially because of the support given to our nut customer, he would like to express my undying gratitude to our government, especially to our President, and to our country, our country, our nation, in the year 2019, I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0082par0084	The line belongs to Adana MP Tamer Mountain Bey. Here you are, Mr. Tamer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0083par0087	Mr. President, I've been promised a budget for the President of the IRS in the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal Talks. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. The Ministry of Finance is the institution that takes on an important position at the implementation of the state's income policy, which collects taxes and other state-owned debt, a source of financing for public services. In 2019, a total of 3 billion 770 million 344,000 Turkish liras were earmarked for the presidency. Mr. President, the economy of Turkey has grown higher than the developed and developing countries since 2002. While fighting inflation, Turkey has been an exemplary country in the process, which has constantly expanded its economy. In our country, the AK PARTY has endured a national income per capita in the period of our rulings. Our country has improved in all macroeconomic data; its competitors have seen two digits of growth as they grow up with negative, stable, or 1 per cent. While the global economy is in trouble, there is a Turkey that continues to grow while its environment is surrounded by fire. There is a Turkey that has been exposed to a traitorous invasion attempt, which has puts its economy on solid ground, even as it continues to fight the scourge of terror. In our time of power, it's not right to express economic improvements in numbers alone. In the process, our nation has always appreciated where we came from in all aspects of our human life, in transportation, in health, in education, in all aspects of our lives. Hopefully, in the March 31st district elections, our nation will continue its commitment to the whites and the Cumhur Alliance by increasing its trust and projecting it into the chest. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are preparing for a year of economic difficulty. European consumers complain that their living standards are down. In the United States, Russia, China, countries with large economies are fighting a trade war. We're entering a period where conservation is increasing, financial transportation is difficult, and it's expensive. However, in our New Economic Programme, we predict 2.3 growths in 2019, and we plan to do all kinds of measures and work in this direction. Although we have local elections in the first quarter of the new year in our budget of 2019, we will continue our savings, hard money and finance policy, not delivering election economies. The election process will not interfere with our love of service. 2.3 we will continue to provide the important part of our growing goal by increasing exports and tourism revenues. We'll continue to encourage investments that will increase exports in this framework to ensure the production of imported products that create our current deficit in our country. In this direction, in the south, in our Adana, we form the valley of Turkey's petrochemistry. We create a region that will produce and export many oils and chemical derivatives that we import. The first investment has been signed in Ceyhan Energy Industrial Region, which will make the amount worth hundreds of billions. With the initiative of our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the first industrial facility we will build in the Algeria state-owned partnership will be built with $1.2 billion investment. The polypropylene facility, which is used as plastic and rubber raw material, will be built in the new year, and hopefully the facility will be completed in 2023. So that $550 million a year will be kept in our country. I hereby thank those who have done their best, especially our President, God bless you. For our private sector to take a more competitive position in the world markets, in co-operation with our financial sector, to spend the process with more jobs, more investments and exports. In our 2019 budget, we increase the amount of resources from health to education, social benefits to transportation, agriculture to real sectors in all areas. On the other hand, we will continue our policy of structural reform. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we will continue our efforts to be global power and to provide life for our people in a more prosperous country. I wish the central budget law of 2019 was a blessing, and I remember with mercy and gratitude our beloved martyrs who gave their lives for the unbreakable integrity of our country and the free wave of our flag. I wish our veterans a healthy long life. I salute all our citizens who are loyal to our country and our flag, and I strongly condemn those who support treason and those who cooperate with the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0084par0098	In turn, it belongs to our Army MP Ergün Taşcı Bey. Here you are, Mr. Ergun.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0085par0101	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Public Contraction Agency budget. On behalf of my council group and myself, I salute you. Dear lawmakers, today we are talking about the budget of an institution that regulates about 7 per cent of our national income, about 27 per cent of the total public spending. So we're not just talking about a public institution, we're talking about the economic impacts of a very large institution on a macro scale. Established by Law 4734, the institution has conducted significant studies in public purchases since 2002. By the year 2018, many innovations were made by the institution. Most importantly, it's the spread of the electronic tender, no question. Public tenders need to be transported to the electronic environment, a topic that has been discussed for a long time, both locally and globally. It is clear that the e-mail, which has been a major target in public administration in the last 20 years, will make a major contribution to providing efficient and efficient use of resources by making public tenders more efficient and efficient. This type of practice is carried out through the ECAP, not only a innovation in our country, but also an example for many other countries. The aim of the spread of the e-meal has also been to develop information and capacity to contribute to the implementation of administrations' activities since August, when the presidency has been included in the First 100 Day Executive Programme. As a result of these studies, it will be possible for about 90,000 tenders to be made electronically without any financial restrictions as of 2019. In this way, the increased transparency in the tenders, as well as access to tenders in terms of those who will participate in the tenders, will be easy to access the tender, while resources will be more efficient and efficient, and needs will soon be met with increased competition in terms of administrations. Another foot in the field of e-mail is an electronic depletion method, which is one of the first in our bidding system. This process, which began in November, has increased competition and has been made available to sign contracts at a lower price. Precious lawmakers have been one of the most critical issues of the Public Contraction Act, both local and national, during the period of implementation over 15 years, but it is clear that almost all exceptions are due to administrative needs. On the other hand, the fact that there is a large number of Bents is critical, especially in the Supreme Assembly, when we look at the issues that are the most critical, without too much inclusion, the public tender statistics will show that 90 per cent of public purchases continue under the law, and 90 per cent of the exception, shown by what we call "instina," covers 9 per cent when it is expressed by numbers. In this case, it will be evident that exception spending is not as large as it seems. Again, when we look at the basis of the law in 1999 and 2002, it is stated that the law is to comply with international practices and EU public procurement directives. But when we look at EU directives, there is a serious exception in very different areas of public procurement, from defense to security and intelligence. It is clear that EU directives are more flexible compared to our legislation. Again, we can talk about a change in the law in relation to economic difficulties on the global scale and changes in EU countries based on the changes in the Law on our Public Contraction Law. But when we look at EU countries, Italy, England, Austria, Czech Republic...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0086par0108	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0085par0109	When we enter the numbers, I'd like to stress from here that there's more fundamental change in other European countries. Again, it is clear that the change in the EU directives in 2004 and its amendment in 2014 is actually due to administrative judicial decisions and needs. So I would like to make a suggestion that in this context, in line with EU directives, again, I would like to say that, together in this Parliament, we need to contribute to this, together, to the broader extent of the public tender legislation, to the need to change the legislation in accordance with the needs of the day, to the real needs of the real. In light of this information, I would like to thank our friends who work at the Public Contraction Agency and serve in this sense, who think that public purchases would be an important tool for the development of our country, that the legal and institutional structure would be zealous at the point of fulfilling this function with a better activity. I wish the institution's 2019 budget to be a blessing to our country, to our nation. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0087par0114	In turn, it belongs to Cörum MP Oğuzhan Kaya. Here you are, Mr. Oğuzhan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0088par0117	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the President of the Privatisation Administration in 2019. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation, watching us at the head of television, from the stand of our Veteran Assembly. From its establishment in 1994 until now, the Privatisation Administration has played a role in the driving force of reform studies, a pioneer of economic transformation and development in our country. The Privatisation Administration underpinned its principles of transparency, professionalism, accountability, while taking measures to ensure that public assets can be operated more efficiently using rational, internationally accepted methods, while providing public revenue through privatisation. In addition to the privatized privatisation revenues, the privatisation of inefficient and damaging public enterprises has also been channeled to other needs of the state by saving a significant amount of funds that the treasure should transfer. The Privatisation Administration also played a leading role in the development of capital markets in our country. He injected confidence in the market through public supply transactions during difficult times, using special incentive mechanisms, facilitating small savings owners and workers' participation in public supply, so that he supported the spread of capital through privatisation practices. Five of the 10 companies that have been traded in İstanbul today are the companies that have been given public supply transactions by the President of the Privatisation Administration. The Privatisation Administration also directed mergers and takeovers in our country, supporting the development of investors' foreign business culture. The Privatisation Administration also plans to build and transfer the revenue to the treasury to ensure additional value for the new public transports. Privatisation has also been an important tool of policy not only for revenue focus but also for increasing quality and credibility in public services and reaching the expected standards. Companies for privatisation carry out the necessary new investments, technological innovations, thus opening new jobs as well as quality in production and service. At this point, the Privatisation Administration has drawn attention to its performances and achievements, and has been consulting on privatisation of more than ten countries. In short, he exports his Turkish experience on privatisation to the world. Precious lawmakers, the introduction of the first legislation in 1984 was one of the most important reforms in Turkey's market economy as of the second half of the '80s, when privatisation practices began with the first deployment in 1986. Since its establishment, the President of the Privatisation Administration, which has continued its operations without compromising its open competitiveness, transparency, accountability and participation principles, has been one of the pioneers in Turkey. In addition, privatisation practices during our governments are clearly contributing to economic growth, not only to revenue-profit transactions, but also to the aspect of the practice that develops the capital market, which extends capital to the bottom, which brings the emerging public assets to the economy. With privatisation practices, we have ensured that the state's total withdrawal from the sector, especially in the areas such as petrochemistry, iron steel, oil refinery, alcohol, tobacco and electricity distribution, electricity production, telecommunications, banking, insurance, air transport, marina and port management. Many privatised companies have been active in the enlargement of the economy, making new investments, increasing production, opening new jobs. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Precious lawmakers have been offered a total of 37.7m euros in the privatisation administration's budget of 2019, including $30.6m in staff and social security costs, $3.5m in goods and service expenses, and $3.6m in current transfers and capital costs. As with all institutions and institutions, the President of the Privatisation Administration is highly sensitive in the use of public resources effectively, economically, efficiently and legally. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with all the resources we have in the nation, I wish our budget of 2019 to be good for our country, for our nation, for all the employees of our Privatisation Administration presidency, I salute our great delegation and my beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0089par0131	The order belongs to Salih Cora. Here you go, Mr. Cora.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0090par0134	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the budget of 2019 of the President of the Treasury and Finance Ministry's Privatisation Administration. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation who are watching us on the screen. Dear friends, our Corum MP just gave a speech on the same institution, and I'm going to express my views on different issues. The President of the Privatisation Administration was established in 1994 with the adoption of Law 4046. Of course, prior to the adoption of Law 2983 in 1984, applications for privatisation began in our country. Due to the establishment of the Privatisation Administration, it has performed many procedures, with no exception to the principles of open competition, transparency, accountability, participation. Our main goal in privatisation policies is to strengthen and investigate the free market economy. The most important thing is to bring competition into competition in the free market, to provide efficiency in resource use and distribution. Dear friends, as a lawyer, I must say that the CSI (public economic initiatives) have no legal means of bankruptcy. This also creates a very serious comfort, and these organizations, which have their backs on the state, are literally a burden to the public. In terms of price and quality, it remains insensitive to market demands. They have never been concerned about increasing efficiency, improving quality, cost and lowering price. Also, as you know, we all know that the average efficiency in the public sector is often lower than in the private sector because they are not in the business of profit, they are not following technology, they are not implementing a rational employment policy and investment policy. In particular, one thing that has been criticised in this privatisation or privatisation issue is that the revenues of our public economic initiatives are not affordable, and budgets are generally short. These explanations include support and debt. This poses a serious burden on the treasury and the budget, causing a great deal of damage to the economy and our financial structure, causing destruction. We say that the state should no longer trade, move, manage, coordinate, coordinate; the state should withdraw its hand through direct economic activities, hand them over to the private sector, and turn to areas of justice and security, which are their primary tasks. It saves the state from a cumbersome structure, it becomes a more dynamic state image, and it becomes rational for our economy. Dear friends, the AK PARTY has achieved historical achievements in privatisation. They've had privatisation apps before us. By the time we came to power, the revenue from privatisation apps amounted to around $8 billion, while the total of privatisation practices that were carried out during our government's time and tied to the contract has now risen to over 62 billion dollars, and 88 per cent of that has been achieved during our governments. (AK PARTY) This is an important achievement. We don't see these privatisation apps as just a revenue-producing activity. We've always discussed the direction that develops the capital market, spreads capital, and brings the state-run assets into the economy. We also used a significant portion of the revenue from these privatisation practices to improve the rights of those who work at those institutions. Therefore, because of privatisation, we did not victimize anyone, we did not victimize any employees. When we looked at privatisation practices, we saw the government withdrawing from many sectors, especially petrochemistry and iron steel. Part of it, we got him to take his hand off the marina and port management, and part of the air transport market. Privatisation practices have contributed to economic growth because many privatised companies have made new investments, increased production and opened new jobs. On this occasion, I wish you all the best in the budget, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0091par0143	In turn, it belongs to our Balıkesir MP Yavuz Subaş. Here you are, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0092par0146	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI group on the public oversight, accounting and audit standards budget for the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. I hereby salute our Veteran Assembly, our beloved nation and our dear colleagues, our financial advisors, our independent auditors, our sworn financial advisors, who are watching us on the screen. At the beginning of my words again, on December 17, 2018, yesterday in the district of Hani, Diyarbakır, the brave son of our country, Nazim Tuncer, who was ambushed by the members of a terrorist organization, I ask for the mercy of God to our brother, Cenab, our safety community, our family, and our holy nation. Information is transparent and reliable in financial markets and economic structures, and the need for international credibility of financial information and financial paintings has led to the establishment of independent public oversight institutions. For this reason, there is also the Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards in our country. His goal is to give his subjects accurate and accurate information. Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency was established on November 2, 2011, under the Constitution 660, to organise the independent control area under the new Turkish Trade Law, which was envisioned as part of international development in the area of public oversight. Well, to briefly describe what public oversight is, in general, is the ability to control independent control activities by various applications by an institution that is independent of the profession, keeping public benefits in the forefront, whether they are being carried out in accordance with the current legal regulations. The independent audit is the implementation of independent control techniques necessary for the fiscal tables and other financial information to fit financial reporting standards and accuracy of a business, and its audits are tied to a report. The mission of the Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency is to establish standards that allow financial reports to be organised and supervised in line with international standards, and to perform effective public supervision. Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency, independent audit agencies, independent auditors are conducting their annual review of the Quality Security System as part of its plan to identify their activities that violate the regulations of institutions and related legislation. With the review of the Quality Security System, the compliance of the standards of financial reporting of businesses, firms' financial tables and other financial information provides the quality and confidence needed for its accuracy. In 2019, it is also satisfactory to have the responsibility of the Agency for Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards to adopt international standards published in the interest-free financial sector of the Presidential Annual Programme. According to institutional records, as of December 2018, 18,029 professional members are currently authorized and 15,999 are currently in operation as a registered member of the institution. Mr. President, a valued lawmakers, as a member of a profession, the EC PARTI has saved our colleagues from a number of professionals, throwing six zeros out of the historic Turkish lira, the most significant, unforgettable gift that our government has done to those who practice the accounting profession. As he performed his profession, he wrote millions and billions of numbers, and the columns of numbers were not enough. The withdrawal of zero from the money took place in 81 countries, including Turkey. I know a debt of gratitude to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the AK PARTI governments, who have established trust and stability in our money through this policy, which has been successful in Germany, Turkey, Bulgaria, Poland and several countries.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0093par0157	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0092par0158	Mr. President, I'd like to share with you before I complete my words on the basis of our presence in Mandana Week: let the person see who he loves if he wants to know who he is. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the budget of 2019 to be good for our country, for our nation, for our state. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0094par0162	The order belongs to Aydın MP Bekir Kum Erim Bey. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0095par0165	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Statistical Agency budget of 2019, to our citizens watching us at the beginning of the screen. Our AK PARTY governments have made significant improvements in Turkey's Statistical Agency, as has been in every field since his arrival. On 18 November 2005, Turkey's Statistical Law 5429, published in the Official Gazette, and the Turkish statistical system were adapted to the European statistical system. The aim of the law is to establish the basic principles and standards for the production and organisation of official statistics, the collection of data and information in areas the country needs, the evaluation, the production of necessary statistics, distribution, distribution, co-ordination of institutions and institutions in the official statistical programme. With the adoption of the presidency's government system, the law has changed, the institution's organisation, its mandates and duties have been redacted by the Presidential decree, and the issues related to Turkey's statistical system are protected by the law. Statistical data is the cornerstone of understanding the past, of grasping today more objectively and accurately, and planning the future in the best possible way. Through these data, rational decisions can be made, and the socioeconomic steps needed to increase our social well-being can be taken in a more conscious way. Turkey's Statistical Agency is responsible for the implementation of the official statistical programme that constitutes the framework for our official statistics. Important steps have been taken to develop statistical capacity for both institutional and for our country under the implementation of the programme. The programme aims to boost statistical production and data integration from administrative records, and studies in this area are carefully conducted. In comparison with statistical field research, administrative records have an advantage over cost, time and coverage. At the same time, the sharing of administrative records by different public institutions and pennies in respect of data security and privacy removes the answer to our citizens' burden. Many developed countries today have begun to gain in many different areas, including interagency sharing of information in administrative records, prevention of information and time loss, reducing response burdens, and getting more current data. The use of administrative records as the most important data source in the production of statistics makes it possible for decision-makers to access data quickly. Therefore, data-owning governments need to correct, standardize data infrastructure, and provide certain quality requirements, and that is the only way to produce statistics based on administrative records on international platforms. In this framework, it is very important for institutions and organisations to adapt to the national registration system standard, which will be announced by the Turkish Statistical Agency. The TÜİK shall have collected information from nearly 1 million respondent units as part of its research in 2018 and published a total of 339 news bulletins. In the next year, the size of the field application has been planned. TÜİK refers greatly to international co-operation efforts. In accordance with our country's foreign policy, there are extensive studies on bilateral or multilateral statistical co-operation projects for various countries and countries' groups, managing technical aid programmes, signing co-operation protocols and conducting them in accordance with international agreements. In addition, international organisations, national statistical offices and regional organisations continue to co-operate in the field of statistics, as well as as as in the utilising country of donor countries. As part of the co-operation work, there is also a broad geography counselling service to strengthen the technical capacities of other countries' statistical institutions. In particular, with financial support from the Turkish Co-operation and Co-ordination Agency (TIKA) and the Statistical Centre for Economics and Social Research and Education, we share our experiences with many countries from Vietnam and Indonesia to Surinam. From Qatar to Tajikistan and Azerbaijan. In the coming period, international co-operation efforts are also planned to continue effectively and intensively.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0096par0173	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0095par0174	In this scope, first work has been brought to the final stage for the signing of co-operation in statistics with Azerbaijan, Sudan, Niger and Mozambique Statistical Offices. In addition, the Vietnam and Bangladesh Statistical Offices agreed to continue co-operation. The 2019-2023 Central Future Program, announced under the New Economic Programme, consists of a realistic, transparent and consistent policy set, which does not compromise the basic principles of the market economy, which can be observed objectively through simple performance indicators. In this regard, the mission and responsibilities of the TÜİK (TİK) continue to increase in the national effort under the New Economic Programme and the Presidential Annual Programme of 2019. Statistics produced by TİK are also important and essential at the point of social and economic evaluations for our country on national and international platforms. As I end my words, I wish our budget of 2019 was good, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0097par0179	In turn, it belongs to our Aydın MP Mustafa War Bey.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0098par0181	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a commitment on behalf of the EC PARTY Group over the budget of 2019 of the Banking Editing and Control Agency. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. In 1999, the Banking Law, established during our 59% government in 2005, has been a key role in Turkey's economy for strengthening independence, activity and efficiency, providing financial stability, developing banking sector, controlling banks, protecting rights and interests of the austerity owners, and developing an effective financial system. In addition to the decisions and regulations made by the Banking Organization for Editing and Control, the Turkish banking system emerged from the global economic crisis in 2009, the July 15th treacherous coup attempt, and its foreign-source courtship attack in August 2018. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, due to the continued interest increase of the U.S. Central Bank in 2018, access to foreign financial resources has become scarce, and debt costs have increased. The pressure of these developments has also been felt in Turkey's economy. This is happening in global markets, especially in August, when an outside-source currency attack was launched, Turkish lira lost value and interest rates rose. Due to the rise of fluctuations in the markets and changes in the price of financial assets, some serial measures have been enforced. In this framework, key decisions made by the Banking Organization and the Central Bank have been successfully implemented in the co-ordination of our Treasury and Finance Ministry. Mr. President, valued lawmakers continue to support the real sector by maintaining its strong financial structure in the framework set in the banking sector's New Economic Programme. In this scope, the banking sector has also decided to restructure loans for businesses with intent to pay off its debts, and through the keeping of the credit channels open and extension of the deadlines, the real sector has set in motion. On the other hand, an important decision made by our government is the announcement of the New Economy Programme, a three-year road map of the Turkish economy. The programme, which ensures that growth will be supported by production and investment growth, new acceleration of exports, the establishment of Turkey's sustainable development, brought clear, understandable goals for reducing inflation, lower public deficits, attracting the current deficit to acceptable levels. And the markets got their program targets and strategies right, and they took a positive view, and they reacted positively very quickly. Since October, the fluctuations in the markets have decreased, the TL has started to regain value, the pressure on interest rates has declined, and even the interest rates have started to decline. This means that growth will reassemble and move towards the targeted levels. The foundations of Turkey's economy are solid. He has the experience and the ability to correct and govern unexpected developments with his institutions, rules, public and private sector. Turkey is not Turkey of the 1990s. The public population is healthy and has a low debt burden. The private sector is stronger and remains the engine of the economy. Real sectors continue to produce, invest and export. The banking industry, with its strong financial structure, liquidity and capital ratios, is capable of all kinds of shocks and confidences. Our government is taking and implementing all necessary measures for the stability and development of the economy and our country. We believe our economy will be much bigger, improved and prosperous, and we look to the future much safer. I wish you the best and the best of luck for our beloved nation in 2019, where we continue our talks, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0099par0188	In turn, Kütahya MP Ahmet Tan Tayyipda. Here you are, Mr. Ahmet.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0100par0191	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Capital Market Board for 2019 Central Management Budget Proposal talks. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, who are watching us on the screens. The main aims of the Capital Market Board to protect the rights of investors are to determine the rules of operating of the market markets and institutions, to ensure the best use of companies using funds in accordance with certain rules, to protect the rights and benefits of those investors in the capital market, to ensure the fair and effective work of the markets. The Capital Market Board is continuing its efforts to further develop capital markets, which are a key part of the financing of our country's development, to make arrangements for the use of some of the financial tools successfully used in the developed country's markets in our country. In the past November, the Capital Market Board has opened the way for the widespread security transactions used in international markets by its new regulations for assets or mortgage-based securities. The new arrangement, created by working in harmony with sector and other relevant public authorities, was published in the Official Gazette of November 11, 2018, allowing businesses to provide funds from our capital markets in order to secure their liquidity. They provide additional protection for our investors, while they also allow us to reduce debt costs for our companies. The virility of the economy depends on the virility of the private sector. Therefore, employment, manufacturing and exports are directly proportional to this, and in this context, our employment and exports to Kütahya will contribute much more to employment, production and exports, which we believe will be a domestic automotive host, as well as to the recent approval of the area of Rabbit and Gediz Industry. With its location and investment-appropriate structure, 22 companies have already applied for the Victory Organised Industrial District for an investment of $350m. This already shows that the Victory Organised Industrial Zone will replace the region's industry as the center of attraction. Again, with 27 companies with incentives carried out by the private sector, nearly $300m in investments, there will also be 1,095 jobs, hopefully, and as a result of our work for the Victory Organised Industrial Zone, infrastructure, natural gas, electricity-related investment plans continue, while the decision made at the board meeting this week will begin in the first quarter of 2019, with the construction of our organised industrial region in the year 2021. On the other hand, a 413m-priced contract was signed with the Emet Sulfuric Acid Factory, which was planned to be completed within three years for the boron mine in Emet County, which was to be built and to be employed for 67 people, and was signed with a 413m-priced contract, as of October 24, 2018. However, as we work with TİKİ and KİAS on the re-activating of coal mines in Gediz County, we hope that there will be significant contributions to domestic coal production, employment, country and local economy. Mr. President, all investments, including valuable lawmakers, new initiatives to promote economic growth and development, are supported by us, and we are always on the side of strong economy, strong Turkey, investors and stability.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0101par0199	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0100par0200	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. So in order to make our country a more advanced, prosperous country, I would like to welcome our private sector, our national economic struggle, perhaps the most meaningful activity at this time, investment, employment, exports, and with these feelings and thoughts, to salute your grand delegation and our beloved nation, and wish our budget well.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0101par0203	Denizli MP Nilgun Ök.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0102par0205	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY Group to discuss the budget for 2019 of the Capital Market Board of the Treasury and Finance Ministry. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation with love and respect, watching us on their screens. As it is known, the Capital Market Board has taken on an important mission to finance the real sector through self-source and debt tools since its establishment. Under a very large market mechanism, the board, which is the highest control authority in our capital markets, where different sector participants operate, comes today, is the 403 stock company, which is over 800 billion euros in market value, the 86 public enterprises outside the market, the 487 investment fund, which has total value of 50 billion euros, the 487 investment fund, which has a total value of 50 billion euros, the 408 investment fund that exceeds 90 billion euros, and the portfolio value of each company, which is over 20 billion euros per centuity investment partnership, which is operating at the price of 33 real estate investment partnerships, the 55 portfolio companies, which are operating at $170 billion euros, again, the total capital of the company's investment enterprise, the company's investment company, which is operating at a cost of 1236 billion euros. The Capital Market Board contributes to increased domestic savings by supporting the growth of our capital market. Again, it provides our investors and businesses with alternative and low-cost financing instead of capital market tools and bank loans. The board has arranged for assets and mortgage-based securities in the past November. Thus, our businesses have been given the opportunity to fund international capital markets. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as we all know, our country has also been introduced to non-interested capital market products in the period of our government. The first real estate investment partnership of our country was held in 2018 by the Public Property Investment Partnership and Public Investment Co-operation. At the point where we're here, we've managed to get our share of global water markets up to 5.2 percent. I think it's important that we act with that consciousness and create innovative and qualified capital markets in the coming period. The board also takes on an important mission in adapting to international practices, for the country's financial system to have a globally strong, technical and legal infrastructure. The share descriptions approved by the SPK have been adopted as a valid statement in the European Union, as well as in the European Authority for Securities and Markets. In this framework, all of our companies will be able to present explanations approved by the SPK in their application to EU member states in order to sell shares. This is very important for the integration of our markets with European markets. Mr. President, I'd like to tell you about the Stock Exchange Istanbul. When the stock market comes to recent innovations by Istanbul, as it is known, a money market has been opened within the Stock Exchange of Istanbul to create a guaranteed money market. The exchange of transactions is carried out within Takasbank. The market continues its work by increasing the depth of our derivative markets and the value of addition to the country's economy. Starting last September, the Turkish Exporters' Assembly Export Index began to calculate. As it is known, this index is an index of themes, such as sustainability and institutionality, which have recently been important. In this way, the Stock Exchange will be able to grow funds, as funds based on similar indexes will be created by Istanbul in the future. And when a new T.M.I. company is released to the public, its corporate buyer will be ready. I think this is very important. Mr. President, the Istanbul Financial Centre Project, where our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is the mastermind, is a very important vision project for our country. With this project, which will allow the main or regional offices of global companies to come to our country, Turkey will become a global fund management centre. In addition, thanks to the Istanbul Financial Centre, our companies will be able to provide the funds and financing they need with the means they want, in any future. As I finish my remarks, I would like to express that the budget of 2019 is a social budget dedicated to education, health and social services, despite all of our country's negative conjunctural actions.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0103par0215	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0102par0216	On this occasion, I wish you the best budget of the Capital Market Board in 2019, and I salute our great House of Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0103par0218	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. A very valuable member of parliament who was speaking on this bench earlier used the following expressions during his speech: ▪ Someone has seen again how safe the banking system in Turkey is at this time. I'd just like to remind those in power in Turkey in 2001 that when they were in power -- so we realized that this was a participant of the National Movement Party, the 57th Government, and since there was no other representative party -- that the banking performance they showed was a reminder to us -- they had to make the people of this country pay the amount of $350 billion in debt overnight and on account of the poorness of their banking performance. Now, Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I consider these words to be an unfortunate statement and a misinformation. We are hereby required to remind you of some information as the National Party of Action. Dear friends, how was our banking system in the 1980s, 1990s? There was a self-funded banking system that funded its own holdings, and there was a public banking system that was especially blocked by job losses in public banks. As soon as the 57th government came to work, it first carried out this banking reform and financial reforms.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0105par0225	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0226	On 23 June 1999, Law No. 4389 and Banking Editing and Control were formed into an appropriate environment for banks to operate in a healthy, efficient and competitive structure within market discipline, where public banks were re-established, public financing and debt management regulations were made. Thus, there has already been a liquidation of bankrupt, troubled banks. The foundation of strong banking, strong capital structure, has been laid. And the problems that had been swept under the carpet for many years have been resolved and the grave mistakes that have been made have been corrected before. Strong and very important arrangements have been made.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0105par0228	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0229	In the face of numerous structural reforms, we view criticisms of the 57th Reich as an injustice and an assessment due to lack of knowledge and the 57th government as a government of reform. Of course, due to the limitations of our time, it would take us a long time to count in just headlines. The autonomy of the Central Bank, banking reform, restructuring of public banks, organising public financing and debt management, liquidating the damage of jobs, liquidating funds and reducing rotating capitals, budget and spending arrangements -- that is in 2000 -- and from 2000 onwards, high-interest budget surpluses were targeted, and those goals were carried out.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0105par0232	Let's wrap it up, here we go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0233	I'm finishing, thank you very much, Mr. President. Arrangements have been made to improve the investment environment, the public project stock has been rationalised, more fluid, simplified in taxes, social security reformed, arrangements for individual pension, unemployment insurance and job security, agriculture reform, regulation of energy markets, telecommunications sectors have been adjusted to the public tender system. At the same time, during this period of government, the social and economic cost of all of us has been two major earthquakes, which are very high for our entire country. In addition, major corruption operations have been conducted by law on organised crime related to the fight against corruption, criminal organizations for profit. That's all I need for now. This was done during the 57th Government... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0106par0239	All right, wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0240	Yes, I'd also like to thank you for your tolerance, your tolerance.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0106par0241	Yeah, well, our group presidents will do whatever they want, so there's no other way. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0104par0243	With this country, with its past, as it is now, we are all dear friends. Of course, we'll have political assessments, but when we're setting a term -- that's before the 57th Government period, there'll be other government periods, there'll be Justice and Development Party governments, and then there'll be staffs in all executives who will take office -- I'll benefit from making fair assessments. From now on, I expect our friends to be a little more attentive to the conversation about that period. Thank you, I'm paying my respects. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account C) KAMU IHALE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0107par0279	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Garo Paylan Bey is in charge. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0108par0283	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, I don't know if the Minister of Finance was here, he left an hour ago, and I was wondering if he had asked your permission when he left, or if he felt the need to ask your permission. I mean, due to respect for the House, Mr. President, did he say, "Can I go out?" I don't think so. I don't think so, fellas.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0109par0285	Mr. Paylan, do you take the day off every time you come in and out? Do you get permission every time you come in and out, Mr. Paylan?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0110par0286	But the finance department's budget is being discussed.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0108par0287	Look, we're going to give our opinion on the Finance Ministry budget, we're going to give our reviews on the Ministry of Finance. One day a year, friends, look, he'll listen one day, he'll work 364 days. One day he'll stand there and respect the House.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0111par0288	Mr. Paylan, it's been a day.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0112par0289	Mr. Secretary left ten minutes ago. You're making a big deal out of this, Garo.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0113par0290	Why don't you just get on with your speech?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0114par0291	Mr. President, if he hasn't given you an excuse, I consider it a violation of the House, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0113par0292	Would you please stop talking, please?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0114par0293	Dear friends, the budgets are the conscience of a country. We said, "You didn't listen." This budget is an unfair and unconscionable budget with the choice of spending. We said, "You didn't listen, you approved all the ministries without changing their comma. You gave the president a 26 percent raise, the farmer, friends, 10 percent difference. You gave the president a 26 percent raise, you gave the students a 6% increase in student scholarships, you guys. You told the president, "Yes." You said, "Yes, six per cent of student scholarships." You said, "Yes." You said, "Yes, in that sense, it's an unfair and unconscionable budget." Well, I'll go and tell some friends if he's guilty with pens and unconscionable pens. A state or a parliament delivers justice through tax policy, my friends. A parliament decides how to collect taxes from whom, executes, and establishes justice there. Unfortunately, this budget is also unconscionable and unfair with revenue markers, friends. Look, next year we're going to collect $756 billion in taxes. When Mr. Finance Minister began his first assignment, he said, "We'll spread the tax. Can you imagine, my friends? We'll spread the tax. Well, guys, you know the officers can't make the end of the month? They're friends who have income below the minimum wage hunger limit, who are going to pay taxes on the floor. Yeah, look at a thousand people in the ceiling, I'll bet, on the ceiling, with the Genghis, the Colins, the Limaks, the Renaissance, a total of a thousand people. Look, 81 million people are working, I'm talking a thousand people, he doesn't see a thousand people on that hill; look, he's got $200 billion abroad on Man Island, Panama Islands, he doesn't see them, he doesn't deal with a thousand people, he's going to spread them to the ground, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0115par0296	Are they exempt? Are those exemptions?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0114par0297	Look, where are the Minister's tax offices, folks? Where's the IRS? Gas stations. A poor man should go to the tax office in his ten thousand-dollar car. Let him say 200 liras and 100 liras of taxes; he went down to the IRS. Well, Mr. Secretary gets into a $10 million car, the state car, some rich people, and Genghis, Kolins, Limaks get into a 10 million car, and if he works for a minimum wage, he can't get that 10 million car, he pays the same tax to the gas station.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0115par0298	What are you comparing? We're asking you to understand, what are you comparing?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0114par0299	That's justice, fellas? See, that's the only way we get indirect taxes from the same people. Look, we're equal in this sense, but we're equal in this sense, but friends, we're not equal in income, we're not equal in wealth. Go to a TECEL dealership, buy a cigarette for 15 liras, tax 8 liras, and the richest pay 8 liras, and the poorest pay 8 liras. So, what's the outcome of this, guys? Look, 38% of the wealth was in the population before the AKP came to power. What are friends now in 2018? Think of 60 percent of the wealth, a huge cake, that took 60 percent of its population, Genghisler, Kolins, Limaks. What did this happen, guys? Here's what happened with tax policies. When we took the tax, we took it equal to everyone else, but we distributed it to the Genghis, the Colins, the Limaks, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0115par0301	What's being distributed? Distributed what? We were wondering, what's being distributed?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0116par0302	Name-calling, that's a shame, he's got a right to answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0117par0303	Just a minute, Mr. Orator. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, what are you talking about? Your group's acting president is listening, and he'll be right back.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0118par0305	Dear friends, what do we offer? We've been saying for years, let's do income tax reform. Look, in democracies, who does a citizen fear most after God? After God's death, he fears tax management the most. I mean, America is the most afraid of the IRS. Every step of the way, he's afraid of the IRS, because the IRS comes in, gets on top of you, and then you lose a dollar of tax, and the IRS gets on top of you. Is there a businessman or a businessman who's afraid of this IRS? No, guys, no one's scared. They're missing taxes, they're taking them, they're not reporting them, no one's afraid. Why? Paying taxes, kidnapping, then paying taxes, since this Ministry has already made five tax pardons in four years, friends, five tax pardons. There's a zero interest loan in Turkey, 30 per cent in banks, zero per cent in the IRS. That's five tax pardons in four years. Those who haven't paid their taxes in four years have profited, friends; those who have, unfortunately, have become fools. Our other suggestion, friends, is a wealth-sensitive tax. You know, the way he took 1.60 percent, the way to reverse it is to do a fortune-sensitive taxation, my friends. If you get a 1 percent tax from someone who owns a house and a 1 percent property tax from someone who owns a thousand homes, and you get 1 percent from someone who owns a thousand houses, that fortune will never end in inequality. We need to make an increasing tax on the wealth. Our other suggestion, friends, is to bring in the rent tax. Look, you've created a hundred billion dollars worth of rant. He bought a citizen's land for 10 liras, the municipality went away, the building went into 10,000 liras, and you didn't get a 1 lira tax on that $10,000. Come on, let's bring in the rent tax, guys. Another suggestion, Mr. Secretary, is that you have hundreds, thousands of tax offices, but I suggest you open up three tax offices. I'm telling you, we have to take it from the ceiling. Look, we have to collect taxes from there. Open a tax office in Panama, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Secretary, open a tax office on Malta Island.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0119par0309	Open on Man Island.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0118par0310	Open a tax office on Man Island, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Look, $200 billion lies there, $200 billion lies in tax paradise.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0120par0313	It's definitely a lie, a lie!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0118par0314	If you tax that $200 billion, Mr. Secretary, you won't have to tax that dead worker on the floor.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0120par0315	Don't lie to people!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0118par0316	Dear friends, we need to establish tax ethics, avoid tax pardons. And for that, I suggest we bring in tax ombudsman rather than bring out tax pardons for everyone like this. Let him who is short, apply for tax ombudsman, if he has to be paid in installments, if he has to be structured. Dear friends, I'd like to say a few words about the Treasury. Friends, what did Mr. President say when he said: "Stay away from US dollars, we don't need dollars." He said, "We don't need dollars." You know, some of them burned dollars and stuff. Then, America was approached again. But stay away from the dollar, don't make a dollar contract. Mr. Finance Minister made a commercial film, did you see that? Bring your dollars, and bring your gold, he says. What am I going to do? I'll buy it for the treasure, and I'll give you 4% interest. Can you imagine? Stay away from dollars. Mr. Secretary of the President's Government says: "I give four percent interest per dollar, bring dollars." He says, "Take the dollars and walk to the dollar." Guys, this isn't fasting, this is sauerkraut! Why is he advertising with dollars, Mr. Finance Minister? Dear friends, why is he paying 4% interest? Why don't we encourage the TL? Why don't we just borrow dollars from inside? Why don't you bring some dollars to our citizen? Maybe it could be borrowed from the outside, but at 4% interest, we have a Treasury Minister who wants dollars from citizens of the Republic of Turkey. Look, he's walking towards assets based on assets. That's what causes the 2008 financial crisis, which is very dangerous, playing with fire. I hope he plays carefully, Mr. Finance Minister. Dear friends, interest costs will be $117 billion next year; this year it will be 65, next year it will be 117. If Erbakan Hodja were here, he'd say, "You're a lot of interest-makers." He'd say, "You're a lot of interest-makers." (Applause from HDP rows) Why did it happen? Mr. President, because of interest, inflation is the result. The market has seen it, it has carried interest of 8 per cent to 28 per cent, my friends. Look, we'll pay 117 quadrillion liras, but in return, we'll be able to pay the farmer less, the worker, the officer less. Dear friends, I'd like to give you another example of Mr. Finance Minister's disrespect for our House. Recently, we sat in the Plan and Budget Commission, and there was a bag of laws. Mr. Finance Minister put stuff in that bag. One item is FICKO. It says Minister of Finance: I want to establish the Financial Stability Committee. Think of it as "Meclis," he says. Look, our members of the Plan and Budget Commission are here, so consider it. So we sat down, talking. Next thing I know, Mr. Finance Minister's Twitter...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0121par0321	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0118par0322	Mr. President, I've looked at your tweet, Mr. Finance Minister has taken a tweet, and we're having the 2nd meeting of the Financial Stability and Development Committee, which is FİKKO. He says, "We've talked about the work process and the basics, and we've talked about what time we're going to have a meeting." Mr. President, can you imagine, dear friends, that he is sending a law to parliament, Mr. Finance Minister, that he considers it a decree, and that we have held the 2nd meeting without the meeting of the Parliament, the Plan and Budget Commission and the General Assembly. Friends, the reason for the economic crisis is this posture, the fact that the forces can't control each other, is the disrespect of the forces. In that sense, Mr. Finance Minister, if he has an opinion, he shouldn't take it as a decree, he should send it to the House, the House is controversial, if Congress approves it, then he should hold his meeting and set up FİKKO. Dear friends, I consider this to be ignoring the House, and believe me, the greatest cause of our political crisis and economic crisis is the Minister of Finance's stance. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0122par0327	Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul Bey is next in line. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0123par0331	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, my fellow citizens who are watching us on the screen, I salute you all. Dear friends, we called this budget the debt budget, and you opposed it, but it's a budget just like this. Look, there are no poor people in this budget, no pensioners, no workers, no farmers, no livestock citizens, no students, no workers. Look, this budget is a very, very clear sign of what we're really dealing with. Dear friends, as this budget is not fairly distributed to the public, I'm actually talking about the budget of the President of the IRS, which is responsible for creating the revenues of this budget. What is the most important source of the budget of the IRS? Taxes are the most important source of the budget. So, is there justice in taxes? Dear friends, there's no justice in taxes; it's slipping, it's getting rich, it's getting tax exemption, but you're giving as much as you can to the poor, the laborer, the farmer. Look, when employees receive $14,800, they enter the 20 per cent tranche, which is defined as a luxuriant tax, and when you receive a salary of 14.800, you enter into the luxury tax zone. Dear friends, in a place where minimum wage is $1,603, the hunger limit is over $2,000, even a minimum wage is taxed in luxury. Has such justice ever been seen? You passed a law last year and fixed it at $1,603, but the raise you gave to all citizens is 4%; it takes two months; the third month is taxed. He says, "This time you get what you gave with a spoon." Dear friends, 67% of the income tax collected is indirect tax. What's an indirect tax? You don't notice, you numb it, you don't notice. How? Our speaker just told you, you go to the gas station, you think you're buying a gallon of fuel, it's $6.00, $3.5 of $6 is tax, you don't realize it. Dear friends, the water running through your tap is 4-5 tax matufs. Again, you get a phone call, you pay three taxes. You talk on the phone, it goes up to four. You charge your phone, it goes up to five tax types. There's a tax on living, and he doesn't forgive you when he's dying; look, you pay 18 percent tax on the coffin, you give him VAT. You're paying 8% tax on the shroud.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0124par0336	How do we pay you?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0123par0337	That's what you get from the dead, from the living, from the workers, but the rich, the islands, they're there, and you can't tax them, dear friends. Now, dear friends, what all the employees are up against... the IRS employees who collect the tax are condemned to poverty, hunger, like all employees; they have no social security, no 3600 indicator rights; they're all troubled from the bottom to the top. Dear friends, these taxes are being distributed as tributes to the public. Look at the tax pardons, it's not a coincidence that you put them all in two months before the election. Look, I visited the villages of Carniftep last week at Gaziantep City Hall, where I was acting. Before June 24th -- I give you the name of your car -- they poured a truck of stone into the Baspınar village and said, "Dear friends, if the vote comes out on June 24th, we'll do it." The vote didn't come out. When the vote didn't come out, there was a truck of stones, a waste, not made, and there was a truck of stones standing there, unresolved, just a truck. Dear friends, there's no electricity in the two deserts of the village where I was born and raised today, where I'm acting, electricity! It's all over the villages.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0125par0343	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0123par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, you're even using public taxes as a bribe. As for all, you take it without distinction; you take it from Alevi, you take it from the Kurdish people, you take it from everyone, but when it comes to service, you distribute it to your own ally as an instrument, and you distribute it as a bribe; it is not true. Dear friends, on this occasion, I salute the General Assembly. As long as this injustice continues during the AKP administrations, I hope that on March 31st, our people will pay for it, he says, and I pay for it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0126par0349	İstanbul MP Erol Kadircıoğlu is in charge. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0352	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary and the esteemed MPs, I salute you with respect and love. I came here today to talk about the Public Contraction Agency as a matter of fact, but then I wondered if there was any value in talking about such an institution; I decided it wasn't. As far as I'm concerned, the government has made a decision that has already cut its budget. Friends, for 16 years, more or less, according to a reckoning, 186 times in a hundred and eighty-seven months has been changed by the law based on this institution. Actually, the question is, I think it's a lot. I mean, is there really such an institution? It's kind of like a zombie, but it doesn't seem like it, but it doesn't, but it does, and... Now, friends, how shall I put it, it doesn't really make much sense to talk about such an institution. But I would like to say a few things on this occasion. You know, this institution is an autonomous institution; autonomous, independent, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc, and so on -- of course, you have to use the past tense -- because right now, as I understand it, the President himself is throwing away 11 members. It was an institution that had a financial autonomy before. Now, friends, this gives me the opportunity to repeat a criticism I've done before -- a criticism I've done to the Justice and Development Party. You've made state institutions government institutions. These were the institutions of the state institution that represented the entire community, but you made it a government institution, so you destroyed their independence. Now, friends argue sometimes, judgment is independent, etcetera. Guys, why should we believe that? I mean, does that make any sense? If you rule everything, we can get it out of here. So, as of today, it's really strange to me to talk about the independence of the judiciary, and I hope it will seem strange to you soon. But I would like to take the rest of my time on this occasion, friends: I wanted to bring you up on the agenda, once again, with a metaphor like this on this platform. For those of you who weren't at my speech that day, it was simply an analogy: Parliament is basically the mirror of society, where everything that happens in society is reflected in some way, the House and the community sums it up. So I think we can actually try to figure out what's going on in society by looking at Congress, and that would be a very valuable working logic. And when we look at it that way, friends, I think we have two sets of problems, which is very rude, from the arguments we've had so far. One of these problems is religion. So if we open this up, the cults, sir, the congregations, the religion, the religion, the Alevi, the Sunni, etc. are here, in this cluster. We also have ethnic problems in the other cluster, which means there are issues such as Kurds, Turks, etcetera. Friends, these problems are fundamentally problems in our society. Well, you're going to say, well, there are these problems, and we're talking about it. And so on and so on. Friends, let me point out that the differences in these issues, essentially, do not come from differences in our ideas, they come from values that we embrace, they come from different values. We can discuss ideas, we can agree or we can't agree, but values aren't, we can't agree on values. You want samples? Let me give you an example. Representatives of the Justice and Development Party often say: "We want to raise religious generations. You can say, "It is your right because you have such value. But some of our friends here might say, "No, let him know his religion, but we want more scientific thinking people to grow up in this country." Now, friends, we can't bring this discussion to a compromise. There's only one thing we can do, try to understand each other, which basically means raising the bar of democracy. There may be issues that we can't agree on, that we can't agree on, that we can't agree on forever, like in all societies, but the question here is, by raising the bar of democracy, that we can basically understand each other, that we can tolerate each other, that we can find a way to live together. But, guys, what's going on? Look, I'll tell you what's going on, I'll tell you this: these issues are basically -- you don't listen to them, but I'll tell you anyway -- the problem is here, friends; don't look in Syria, if you don't find anything in Syria. The Beka problem is about having a social structure, a social structure that has different values that I'm saying, and it's a very dangerous structure, because it's a provocative structure at any moment. As a matter of fact, like Maraş and so on -- we've been talking about things -- things that were essentially about provocaturing these different values of social structure from outside. Now, friends, I'd like to bring you from here: Mr. Erdogan has said something recently -- he's already saying it -- he said: this is... let me say it backwards. For example, let's say that I, my friends, were the ones who sat there, and you were the ones who took over power, and you all became millionaires. What would those people call me? They say, "Where did you come from?" They say, "Where did you come from?" But Mr. President can say that very easily. The inhabitants of Beşiktaş, the inhabitants of Kadıköy, the inhabitants of Çankaya, the inhabitants of Çankaya, have eaten the spoils of the land. Guys, that's a very wrong and very dangerous sentence. As a matter of fact, yesterday's sentence is equally dangerous. Do you think it's appropriate for the President to talk about the Conqueror Orange -- I think very disrespectfully -- whether it's orange or tangerine -- or something like that?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0128par0363	He's counting, he's swearing, why do you think he's cute?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0364	I know you guys love the President, but guys, look, listen to me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0128par0365	It's been said to the people who've been inviting people to the street for years.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0366	What I'm saying is that it's a matter of our backs. Do not scratch the differences of people with different values in Turkey. If you scratch it, we'll go to a very dangerous place, and you'll have to understand that. And the President... look, I'll tell you, the President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0129par0368	You're scratching.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0369	Guys, I know who knows me, wait a minute... wait a minute... who knows me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0130par0370	Why wait a minute?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0371	The Justice and Development Party was the name of an objection when it came out in this country, but now it's the name of a beer, and so I'm telling you, friends, you may love it, and if we go, you have to tell Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0131par0372	He called the people to the street.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0130par0373	Is it true what Orange does?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0374	Such a language, such a way of speaking, is not really acceptable. You need to say the sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0130par0375	Is what oranges do normal?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0376	We do, but, you know, because the TVs belong to you, what we say, what we talk about isn't already on TV, but at least you can tell me, and I assure you, if you do, you'll make a huge contribution both to yourself and to the community.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0130par0377	Is what oranges do normal?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0132par0378	You guys are always talking shit, bro!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0379	Sir?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0132par0380	I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to the friend. Yeah, don't be mean...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0382	I mean, they throw it away, they throw it away, it's no big deal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0133par0383	We're motivated.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0132par0384	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0385	Friends, again, this kind of politics is not politics. Look, let me tell you something, what are we talking about? We're talking budgets, right? He's using his budget rights, is that it? Guys, I'm sorry, but this is a big bullshit, sorry. This budget is going as it came in, and none of you have had any effect or contribution, my friends. Come on, we're the opposition, we're the opposition, we've said it, we've said it, okay, you haven't taken any forts, but you're the party behind the first party and the ruling party, have your sentences passed? I'll tell you, you guys couldn't put in any commas either. I've been with friends for days on the Plan and Budget Commission, and I see my friends here. You know, like I said, we didn't contribute, our reviews weren't taken into account, but they didn't already bring criticism because they said we're going to criticize a text that's already come from above. So, friends, this budget is going as it came in. And we're using a phrase like Parliament, which uses its rights, but I'm sorry, let me put it this way, it's bullshit, I'm sorry. Because right now, as far as I'm concerned, Congress has become an institution with no initiative, no influence or contribution in any law. Let's not kid each other, let's be honest, let's be honest. Now, here comes a bill with a clause 71. I assure you, as you can imagine, the bag... as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan once said, we'll give it up. They're still bringing in bags, and there are 30 or 40 issues in 71 articles. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need another minute.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0134par0391	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0127par0392	Now, that's no way to make a law, fellas. Let's be serious, for God's sake. Let's be serious. That's no law. Up there, 10 bureaucrats and 3 politicians agree on a text, and they bring it in, and you approve, so we approve, as a result, even if we don't approve. It's not a job, guys. Finally, I'd like to say one more sentence. I don't know Leyla Güven, but I'd love to know her. Because the person who really should be here is a friend who won the election, a friend who took about 80-90 percent of our people's vote, and I think he's being held in prison under unfair circumstances, and this Parliament has kept quiet, friends. So let me just say, while I'm out of here, the Speaker of the House, please focus on this matter. I mean, there's such a thing as mercy. I'm talking about a friend who's a member of this House. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0135par0396	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0136par0397	As a result of talks by political party groups earlier, we agreed to make a commitment to our group's representatives or to our friends who object. Therefore, the Commission has been known to you for a long time, so if you could answer...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0135par0398	Mr. President, according to the Civil Code, the Commission is more important than political parties.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0137par0399	The commission cannot make promises when it wants to. There is no such thing in the Charter.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0138par0400	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0139par0401	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0138par0402	When it's over, let's all take our word for it, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0139par0403	So should the commission. Şırnak MP Hüseyin won't escape, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0406	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have mentioned Erol before me, and I would like to mention again: Mr. Leyla Güven, this is the 41st day of the hunger strike against Imralı's isolation. And if we look at the history of the hunger strike, we see that the power of death and persecution is being taken from the masters. Therefore, we take possession of this hunger strike against the powerful, which Mr. Leyla Güven has launched. Layla Trust is right, it's our demand, absolute isolation must be removed. However, I would like to briefly say a few words on the final account budget of today's Privatisation Administration President: I don't suppose there are any who don't wonder what the concept of national and domestic is? So, I'm asking you, what's left of you that's not domestic or national, that's not sold. The country's most basic production facilities, the country's most basic production facilities, were sold one by one over the past years, by privatising public factories and facilities, which have contributed substantially to the production of yellow jobs, social and economic development. Yes, privatisation had been launched before you, started in 1986, but with 2002, it reached an enormous point. With the latest sugar factories on the agenda, we've learned there's nothing left to sell. Unfortunately, where the Privatisation Administration should be independent, it's also a matter of debate. Mr. President, those who have recently made politics in Serbian mansions don't know what people are thinking, he said. Yeah, he's right, he made a very good point after a long time. The President has no idea what people are thinking, what they're feeling, what he's in, let's just say. Today is the anniversary of the blockades that started three years ago. Taybet İnan was shot in the foot in front of his house on December 19, 2015, leaving him to die, wounded, to die in plain sight. The brother-in-law who tried to save himself was shot and killed again. Her husband, who tried to save himself, tried to pull her out in the street, threw a rope, got shot in the arm. Many people have suffered a great deal in this country. We've all seen it through the solution process, we've had a time in three years when mothers don't cry, they're made of peace. And then, yes, there were mistakes, flaws; someone provoked it, and we're ready to discuss it. But that important three-year process -- I'm sorry to say -- the ruling party can't own it as a part of its situation, it can't show courage, it can't own it; yes, we did it, we did it for the future of this country, we did it for the peace of this country. Every time the opposition attacks, I'm afraid, he refuses to claim it. I'd like to criticize this situation in particular. As I said, I live in the district of Silopi, Şırnak. When Mother Taybet died, we knew immediately. I've been in constant contact with my sub-laws, the Attorney General of the Republic; there's a wounded person there, because his funeral needs to be taken. Let me just tell you, I just want to read you a few of his son's statements, you know, because I don't read them all, because I don't know how a person can endure so much pain: my mother stayed in the street for exactly seven days. None of us could sleep in case the dogs came and the birds landed. He slept there, we died 500 feet away. The more a person can inflict pain on a person, the more the state has caused us in seven days. Sadly, these sufferings, yes, are not unilateral; many people have suffered in this country. Some opposition parties keep accusing us of something, but let's be clear: the pain of the child Bedirhan, who died in Tripoli, is also ours. While we object to these sufferings, we can't applaud or side with other sufferings; we say it clearly, and we say it sincerely. But unfortunately, this Congress is being used as a place to accuse one another, not as a place to solve it, but as a place to come and do propaganda here. We are strongly condemning this situation, I might add. Again, hundreds of people lost their lives during these blockades, many parts of cities, even 65 percent of the city was destroyed in Şırnak Central. Hundreds of people have lost their lives, hundreds of thousands of people have emigrated, but unfortunately, now I see that many of our deputies don't really care, but if you ask them, they all claim to be people who think more about the future of this nation than we do. One day, those who cause these blockades will pay for their suffering, let me make it clear to you. Again, I'd like to share with you a big score that happened recently, perhaps you're not aware. Ministers of power, Beytüşşebap is a small town with 10,000 populations. In the conflict that began with the end of the solution process, a large gang was formed, including security guards, police chiefs, guards, some gendarmes, and some business people who lived there. There's been a 687 million withdrawal in Beytüşşebap district. And how did they do that? I've mentioned it here before. Electric barriers have been placed in every corner of Beytüşşebap district. There's a friend from here -- I don't remember now -- we have a terrorist here, there's terror. Yes, that's what they did. They drank 687 million of this people's budget, saying, "Terror" and saying, "People," and saying, "The flag" and hiding behind it. It's got, like I said, cops, gendarmes, rangers, locals, business people claiming to be nationals. I'll leave it to your discretion. Who's going to investigate and investigate? With these coins, the houses were bought, the cars were bought, and even the wife was offered to a friend, and we have spoken of this before. Ask yourself right now, there are electric barriers in almost every street in Bethushebap, there are automatic shutters, there are MOBESEs on top of each other. How did they do that? There is only the Bank of Agriculture in Beytüşşebap district, but for some reason a police officer and a police officer go and open a bank account in Şırnak headquarters, and here they are taking a lot of goods without being given authority from your Precognitive Law and tendering it, and while they're taking this property, they're giving the police's other account number that is not the real account number, which is 687 million. I'm making that clear, 687 million. And for the budget that's being discussed here, we can clearly say that it's not the public budget. Again, these budgets will be drawn back to the allies, the control mechanisms you've removed, they will not be detected and they will not be punished because of the independent judgment you have destroyed. Think about it, if there's a 687 million-dollar haul in a city of only 10,000 people, you can think about the rest, what's going on in the big cities. In the region, behind every town, nation, flag, we have seen corruption like this followed by many. If anyone doesn't believe me, I have the documents, the files, and I'll present them all to you. So you also have to think about what the solution process or the conflict process brings to this country in an economic sense. In order for similar suffering to never happen again, we all have to work hard to resolve the Kurdish issue on a democratic basis. No one can do politics on our political friends who were burned or killed in those basements in Şırnak, Cizre, or Silvio, or politics on the young boy who lost his life in Tripoli. We can only do politics so that none of this happens again. But what are we doing here? We're facing serious accusations in everything we say. I'm one of the million people in this country who can't live their childhood, their youth. Although we have very different opinions, demands, unfortunately, we still have to discuss the Kurdish issue here because of your insistence on this unresolved situation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0141par0420	Cut the terror, it's easy.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0421	Congressman, I just told you, if you'd listened, if you hadn't spoken, you'd know what I mean.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0141par0422	Cut him off from terror, easy
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0423	You be sure, go ahead, you be sure.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0142par0424	Don't tease me, mind your own business.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0143par0425	Address the General Assembly, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0426	Congressman, my esteemed deputies, let me make it clear to you that whoever said in this country is a local, national, national, flag.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0143par0428	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0429	...most of them have come from shamelessness, corruption, deceit.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0144par0430	That's a serious accusation. What a speech! Don't accuse the general.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0431	I said most of them, I don't mean everyone, don't let them get away.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0145par0432	This is so wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0146par0433	You cut your ties to terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0434	Do not lead them astray, nor lead them astray.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0145par0435	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0147par0436	Is that a word?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0437	Don't let him go, I said most of them. It's important which side you describe yourself on.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0148par0438	Don't generalize, make it concrete. Don't mind being a national.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0439	For that reason, this country, this government has to rebuild the institutions, the control, the independence of the judiciary; otherwise, there's a very bad scenario ahead for all of us. My respects, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0149par0442	It is not possible to accept your testimony, especially after the words of your country, the flag.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0443	I didn't mean everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0150par0444	You mean everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0140par0445	No, no.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0150par0446	You mean everyone, generalizing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0151par0447	The abusers are to be taken.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0150par0448	He's not generalizing the abusers, he's generalizing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0152par0449	It belongs to Van MP Muazzez Orhan. Here you go, Mr. Orhan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0153par0452	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Public Surveillance budget. I salute you. We've been discussing the formalities of AKP's public health budget for days. The aim of this budget is not to reduce poverty and injustice. When this budget is implemented, the situation of the Urban farmer, the Vanese tradesman, the third airport workers will not be better off. With this budget, the work killings will continue, women's apartheid policies will continue, nature's ecological thala will deepen. 16 years of practice has shown that poverty and unemployment will not be reduced, while the AKP is in power. This budget will appear in the Black Sea as a police club against the mother of Eve, who says, "I am my people." He will burn the forest in my class, and drown the refugees in Meric. He will kick the miner in Soma, in Shirvan. With this budget, six workers who leave their homes every morning will not return to their homes in the evening, and will be slaughtered in business killings. This budget will be detention and arrest for workers who say "We are not slaves." This budget is going to impose dependency on women's labor because it's the exploitation of budget labor. That's more of an obstacle for the disabled. This budget is for the tradesmen, it costs more for the farmers. This budget is an increase in in indirect tax on the public, amnesty on the Ranta tax. This budget also represents AKP's injustice. We're talking about a public oversight budget. The AKP, which has driven the country into an economic crisis, has not even increased the share of education, health, social policy, by inflation. With more than 20% inflation, the officer's salary has been raised by only 4 per cent. Even a $20 raise for minimum wage is considered a blessing. But the president's budget -- that's what he calls it -- is the minimum wage of 1,800,000 people. The budget that pays minimum wage by syringe, by plane to the palace. You've had enough of the rights of the servants, so whatever you turn away from is a profit. Don't waste any more people's rights on this budget. Do not go up against him with the right hand of the servant. The strategic plan of the institution we're talking about on its budget has a tragic and tragic expression: No body, authority, authority and person can give orders and instructions to influence the final decision of this institution. I ask you, is there such an institution in this country? Didn't even the court in this country entrap tens of elected members of this House with instructions? Is there no action in this country in the judiciary, in the media, in all administrative agencies under the influence of a monotheistic and fascist fear regime? If the search for a move against the ECHR decision was met immediately, you'll be talking about the independence of which institution. When we look at the duties of this institution, it has a public mandate, such as establishing international standards, accounting and auditing standards, and public supervision. How, then, will you explain the change in duties after the Court reports? In many institutions, including this institution, the board of directors is like a men's album; in ISKUR, in the SGK, in MASAK, and in many places. In short, the AKP is masculine, ignoring the woman and sexist. The standards of public oversight and oversight are primarily respected by the will of the law and public opinion. Every person who tries to perform his profession honestly in a place where the AKP is constantly employing accountants, financial advisors, constantly changing the legislation, each time applying tax forgiveness for the rich. For the AKP, it's about being a supporter. In trade, in art, in the media, there's only one criteria, and that's solidarity. If you're on board, no audits, no problems, no problems, but if you're not, a tax inspection, an accountant inspection can suddenly knock on your door. AKP has appointed trustees more than a thousand companies. Those who want to know how the TMSF is squandered in behalf of those who are beings should look at the TMSF Court report. What did the AKP do when these missions were in the public name? The AKP gave up public opinion, hugged the trustee. The AKP, which does not trust public supervision, has appointed trustees to DBP municipalities. The ones with the election didn't go by choice. The AKP is threatening trustees because it knows that it can't receive by election in the province and in the districts of Amed. Look, at the Van Gürpınar teacher's house on October 30th, at a meeting where they include managers, student service drivers, rangers and commanders, and some teachers, we know that there are votes for HDP. HDP will not vote. If he does, we will do what is necessary. They are trying to win elections in the region by threatening to do so. Your trustees threaten the public and play well. You should also know that you did not nominate trustees in Van. You knew the Van people would bury them in the trunk. WHAT did you do with the missing millions? The trustee, while opening the multi-story parking structure of the HDP (HDP) has been opened, destroyed it and replaced it with an unnecessary mall. Instead of solving the parking lot problem, he set up a company that's been extortionist. This parking lot company in Van Goshen pays a fine as if it had violated the people. The trustees and AKP mentality have also attacked the history and nature of Van. Muradiye Falls was turned into a construction site when it was a site. Two hundred years of historic bridges have been paved with asphalt. The AKP municipality also destroyed the graveyards in Gevash. A thousand-year-old water ducts, streams, ranta and extortion. Farmers can't farm their fields. According to the 2017 Court reports, corruption has been heard. Did you hear there was a disaster in Van? Well, neither did I, to be honest. Fortunately, we learned from the 2017 Court reports. A person who does not live in the van province has been paid seriously from the disaster allowance. The biggest and only disaster in Van is the disaster of trustees. Another example, however, is that since the trustee arrived, the relocations have an unrefundable rent price. The defense of a trustee who can't cover their corruption is more tragic; they couldn't trace their income because of the export of qualified personnel to the KHK. Their corruption was not enough, and their laborers and workers from their work are shielding their corruption. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament and our valued peoples who have been watching us, please note here that the AKP and the TK operations, the Roboski massacre and the Turkish Olympics were like Edi and Büdu until the night of July 15th. Didn't the same teams use the fighter planes used in the coup and the fighter planes used in Roboski? You started the KCK operations with whatever you gave him, and now you're running it. The AKP, which fired 133,000 public workers on the grounds of a coup attempt, has provided only uniformed employment in public for three years. While the teacher, the doctor, the officer, and hundreds of thousands of non-assigned citizens, the AKP has earmarked the police, the ranger, the soldier, the uniform, for short, to produce nothing. Under the export KHK are Erdoğan's signatures. As a result of this signature, there are children who have left school, parents who have been unemployed, and people who have been robbed of their future. With Erdogan's signature, 53 people, including our friend Mehmet Fatih Shaş, committed suicide. After the coup attempt, the teacher Gökhan, who was alleged to have been tortured to death in custody for thirteen days, was reinstated after a year and a half. The plague of these people is on your neck. You have discharged 2,000 disabled public staff from the KHK. Is that your humanity? A person you expelled from the City of Mamak died because they couldn't treat a disabled child. Your justice is as fair as your State of Emergency Commission, its address, its procedure, its rights, you are as fair as the State of Emergency Commission. You've exported, but you're the ones who fled the courts. More than 6,800 have been accidentally extradited with commission decisions and the Turkish Cypriots. This shows your injustice, as exports in İSKUR have been mistakenly revealed, like the exports of dozens of Imams from DIVES members in the tip-off of the Dianet-Sen Van branch. Exports were done not by any law, but entirely by tagging in accordance with the opinion of AKP supporters. You've destroyed business peace, you've destroyed peace, you've turned employees into spies. The AKP exported 3,500 people only in Van. If you think you're going to discipline the town's tradesman, the farmer, the laborer with corruption, you're wrong. On March 31st, our people will bury the AKP and the trustee municipal candidates in the chest. In the chest, our people from Roboski to Cizre, from Uður Kaymaz to Taybet to Mother...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0154par0471	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0153par0472	...he will answer for the atrocities, trustees and exports that have turned against the Kurdish people. From here, I send my regards to Leyla Güven, who opposes all the elected prisoners and anti-human isolation conditions of the HDP (HDP) representing the will of all the oppressed in Turkey, especially the Kurdish people. It's been forty-one days, a member of the House is a prisoner and his body is in hunger. There will be no sound coming from you, but we know that millions of people who follow us, who favor human rights and freedom and peace will not be silent in this cry. We also have a promise to them, that we will never surrender to this darkness. I salute the board.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0155par0476	In order to speak, Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe belongs to Ertan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0156par0478	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Yeah, there's a lot of news every day in the press-released body, with different issues, with statistics. Statistical has become such a tool that most of the time it's turned into a basic reference to false information to make it look like it's true. There are three kinds of lies: lies, fucking lies and statistics. In the Central Management Budget of 2019, almost at the end of the talks, I'm going to try to evaluate the TİK budget from that point of view. Congressmans, statistics are the most important digital keys to understanding the past in terms of society, directing today and planning the future. Statistical data, however, are as dangerous as they are, because there's always the possibility that those who run the government will return to a great polygraph that they can use to manipulate public opinion. As a matter of fact, the word attributed to the famous politician Churchill describes the view of power in statistics science today quite clearly: I don't believe in statistics that I haven't manipulated myself. (Looking at his performance in recent years, the State Statistical Institute, formerly referred to as the Turkish Statistical Institute since 2005, is clearly a means of providing us with information that the future can be planned in a healthy way, to create effective policies. The AKP is only asking for the explanation of its own rights, for the public to be convinced of it, and for those who oppose this demand in part and do their job, it is either taking them off or sending them to retirement. More recently, on October 3rd, TÜİK (TÜİK) after explaining the inflation data and explaining data far above New Economic Programme's goals, TİK Vice President Enver Taşti was removed from his post on the same day. This example that we encountered only two months ago, its only job is to prove how political power is under the pressure of this institution, which has to deal with objective data, in a sense, in the market, in the store, in the house, in the real Turkey. Instead of giving what happened as it was, the TİK has become a buffer institution for criticism of the consequences of the government's wrong policies. As you all know, in recent years, TİK has been revised in national revenue data, but the institution has been criticised for moving beyond the ideas of the statistical bureaus of the United Nations and the European Union. Celebrity economist, teacher Kork Boratav interpreted this change as: "The new national income accounts of TÜİSK are flawed, it is not safe to use it as it is, and then the revisions and corrections that economists can do cannot create a common database that everyone can use. " As long as the TÜİK insists, it will undermine healthy, reliable work on Turkey's economy. Members of parliament, the TİİK, which should be Turkey's reference institution in international opinion, cannot or shouldn't be a propaganda tool for continuing claims of growth. If it happens, this state will mean nothing but harm to the people of this country. We know very well that growing up is not the gain of the households, that there are three or five construction contractors, and that's obvious. Due to the recent agenda, there is no means of historical comparison of the data that TÜİK gives us on these issues, unfortunately, if we continue with the growth figures and therefore the price fluctuations. It's almost impossible for a citizen passing through the street to access this data. You have to have almost a doctorate in order to access and compare TİK data. What else do we compare, do we trust the figures of TÜİK? The unemployment figures were announced yesterday. Yes, that explanation is credible. Would an economist be able to say, "Will he be able to come out?" Which of us believes that true inflation fell in November in Turkey and was 21.62 per cent per year, while unemployment was 11.4%. Economists who are interested in these matters agree that the researchers who are working on Turkey have lost a lot of data credibility in recent years. See, foreign firms now make shadow or alternative reports because they think TÜİK is a trust problem. Congressmans, if I must gather, TİKİK will be a institution that is respected for its explanations, it must be historically comprehensive and reliable so that every citizen can access its data easily, avoid manipulation, and leave no room for doubt. As of today's position, we believe the TÜİK is far from fulfilling these conditions, and we would like to bring this very serious situation back to your attention. In that sense, we would like to reiterate that we do not accept this budget. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0157par0487	The order belongs to Mersin MP Ridvan Turan Bey. Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0158par0490	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our dear people on the screen, I salute you with respect and love. I, too, give my greetings and solidarity to Leyla Güven, who is on the 41st day of the hunger strike. I've made a commitment to the Banking Board of Directors and Investigators. Now, dear friends, the law for the BDK has described the rights and interests of the austerity owners, the trust and stability of financial markets, the intervention to ensure that the credit system works effectively. And again, the laws that the institution has financial autonomy, which clearly states that it cannot be affected or interfered by any body, authority, authority or person. Now, that's what's written. Let's see some practice. For example, the Farm Bank, which was founded to finance farmers' loan needs, was turned into one of the key financiers of the third airport and lent it to them. Again, the People's Bank, founded to support the small manufacturer, was one of the institutions that financed the third airport. Do they not think that the BDK (BDK) will ever need to say a word about it? So we can't hear a single word from God about the conflicting situation that the law has described in the real situation. Again, for example, Doğan Media, you know, was sold to Demirören Media, on condition of a loan from the Agriculture Bank. Now, there are some regulator mechanisms, dear friends, you know, that, you know, they regulate the market, they block the monopoly. A monopoly like the Khan's Wall has formed in this country. Demirören Media has now become a monopoly that holds the vast majority of media organizations, newspapers, televisions, and the loan has been provided by the Bank of Agriculture. Yeah, well, I wonder if this BDDK ever needs to have a word with you about it. So this is what we're going to do: the difference between what's written and what we've applied in practice is going to go on like this all the time in this country? If it's gonna go on, there's no need to complain about anything. The People's Bank has become the subject of an international case. You know, a bank accused of trading gold with Iran in the United States, a public institution, the People's Bank, but we don't hear any more about it from the BDDK. Now, the Bank of Development Act has come out, you know, in the past few months, and this Development Bank -- our claim is that by siphoning the unemployment fund, it will create low interest, long-term credit opportunities for capital. We'll see about that. Let's see if the BDDK can spare us a few words on this. We'll all see about that, dear friends. Three banks, three public banks, were given 11 billion loans in this country, and there is not a single word from Allah because the fact that BDK has fiscal autonomy in the form of legislation is nothing more than a urban myth. Why not? Because Erdogan and his court regime are ahead of all regulatory mechanisms, such as the BDDK. Let's sit on a curve, let's talk straight, that's reality. So, you know, there's an assumption of the classical economics school, called the invisible hand of the market. The invisible hand of the market regulates all market mechanisms, doing so on its own. By God, this motto has come out of the invisible hand of capital, of the market in our country, and has become the visible hand of Erdogan. If this is going to go on like this, if Erdogan is going to continue his involvement in all these financial markets, then there's no way that liberalism can apply to any of the classic rules you're defending here.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0159par0497	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0158par0498	I am, Mr. President. In fact, a hundred and sixty years ago, Marks said that capital savings would inevitably be able to be monopolized and that it could not be prevented by the market by deterrent interference. And what we're dealing with right now is that there's been a serious stock default in the market in the interest of power, and there's been a lot of anti-government monopoly, and unfortunately, in terms of financial markets, there's no sign that the Banking Organization and Control Agency will be interested in this issue, friends. Let's just say that God forgives BDK. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0160par0502	Yes, the last word is from Hakkari MP Sait Dede. Here you go, Mr. Grandpa.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0161par0504	Mr. President, I send my regards to all our comrades and friends, especially Mr. Leyla Güven, who was elected by the People before the Capital Market Board presented my views on the budget meeting, but was held politically by the government. Dear friends, I've been in my constituency for days. There are two questions the people of Haqkari have asked us, one: Why is Leyla Güven still in prison, against the law? The second question is: Why is this Parliament silent, even though Leyla Güven has put her body on a hunger strike for forty-one days and is a member of this Assembly? Dear friends, Hakkari MP Leyla Güven is today on the 41st day of the indefinitely unchanging hunger strike launched to remove the isolation. Mr. Leyla, we want to make it clear again that the demands of the millions must be answered for the demands of our Deputy Trustee. As I have just stated, on the 41st day of the hunger strike, the 40th day of the hunger strike is critical. These are the consequences that will lead to medically impossible consequences and the death of a member of this House. Our next call to Parliament and Parliament is to take the necessary steps before this painting becomes even heavier. The demands of Layla Güven are also righteous and legal demands, friends. Dear lawmakers, the Capital Market Board is just one of the most important institutions to lose autonomy after the transition to a single man's regime. There's no point in explaining the importance of autonomy over here. Because the loss of autonomy of such a board means loss of transparency, controlability, independence. The AKP and its palace mentality have deposed the elected mayors of the people, elected by the trustees, to be political prisoners by various frauds and slanders. In addition to the municipalities owned by the Democratic Regionals Party, Istanbul, Ankara and Bursa have also caused trustee mentality to take place in municipalities. So, in a similar way, this trustee mentality has taken down regulatory and auditory institutions such as the Capital Market Board, Banking Management and Control Agency, the Competition Foundation. He changed the selection of boards from different ministries to a single decayed political mentality. The resistance of us, of the workers, of the people of Turkey who do not surrender will continue in all areas. Look, the Capital Market Board, whose so-called primary mission is to protect investors and to increase trust in the markets, made a change in the situation of insider information, which it considered a market-breaking act on July 13, 2018. Introduction is a commercial crime all over the world, while the change in Turkey is no longer a crime until August 31, 2018. Of course, two days later, on July 15, 2018, the legal arrangement was cancelled. Is there any crime committed during this two-day period? Has there been an investigation into this situation? We don't think so. On the other hand, the Capital Market Board, which has the right to say on the regulation of loans, the creation and organisation of full competition conditions, accepted the invitation exemption of the Demirören Group in the Hurriyet newspaper without any grounds. This irregularity has yielded an advantage of about $264 million. The newspaper Hurriyet's columnist Uğur Gürses, who tried to explain the situation to the public in his complete nudity, was forced to leave the newspaper before it was published due to his article on the Capital Market Board. Your efforts to silence the one who speaks the truth and the one who cries out the truth are endless, Ali Genghis, your games are endless. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a power that has led to the extinction of vital concepts such as independence, freedom, autonomy. It is the palace that determines the framework of your understanding of democracy, the palace that determines the framework of your understanding of freedom. Your Biat culture is based on exploiting the labor of all the peoples of this country. We'll never let that happen. Finally, the consummation of the money taken from the people is essential to the public. Your lack of accountability, your commitment to the wisdom of the market, your contribution to the unconstitutionalisation process, your submission to the monotheism of the palace will continue to create major destructions in every area. Remember, war is not an event to write about what heroes are, nor is the economic crisis a situation to be overcome by structural reforms.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0162par0514	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0161par0515	The Kurdish issue, Turkey's most important issue, is the basis of all the economic, political, social, legal deadlocks we face today. Therefore, the solution of the Kurdish issue in democratic and peaceful ways is the first step that must be started immediately, and its dealings are clear. Finally, this budget favours public, labor, women, farmers, nature, capital, rant, lawlessness. Therefore, it is not possible for us to accept this budget. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0163par0519	Mr. Tanal, please, I promise you your position.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0164par0522	Thank you, my dear President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute and salute you all. The persecution of a citizen who participated in a television program as a contestant and was disqualified is unacceptable on social media. The person who tortured the parrot was first released, then taken back into custody. In a country where even human violence isn't reacting enough, there's not enough public opinion against animal violence, I'm afraid. No living thing can be taken away from it. Taking the life of an animal, killing animals, that's murder. Just because he's not human doesn't mean he can be killed. All those who have this understanding that makes the animal metamorphic and worthless should know that human beings are not the only ones that hurt him. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm sorry. I'm just finishing up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0165par0528	Thank you, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0164par0529	I'm sorry, Mr. President, for the record...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0165par0530	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0164par0531	Thank you very much, thank you very much, Your Honor. It is an unforgivable sin in our religion to torment our animal friends who have no chance of protecting themselves. I demand that my proposal to change the Law on the Protection of Animals I have submitted to the Parliament be passed immediately. Another problem is that people who are unqualified, ill-spirited, who do inhuman jobs for ratings should be kept away from the media. Violence should not be taken into account through these diseased people. Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0166par0536	Mr. Private...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0167par0538	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr. Minister, before the June 24th elections, we will build a boric acid factory in Fishesir. You have made us all happy. Mr. Minister, the largest boric acid plant in the world, including Balıkesir, is the Republic of Turkey and the Citadel, the Emet region, where we welcome 66% of the world's debt production. We want a boron-related factory in this area, not just raw materials. If you promise us that the pipe is the most used, such as the fiberglass factory, you will make us happy on behalf of the people of Kütahya, the people of Emet, the people of the Citadel. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0168par0541	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0169par0543	Thank you, Mr. President. In our district of Ipsala, the local press newspaper burned with a spark from electricity contact earlier today. There is no loss of life, but there is serious financial damage. I say to all of our employees and Ipsala people that the new newspaper is owned by Cenan Tetik. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0170par0546	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0171par0548	Thank you, Mr. President. Antalya has caused major damage to the strong rainstorm district in the Belt district of Turkey. As a result of the flood of Agva Creek, dozens of homes flooded, and many of our citizens were damaged. The cutting throat bridge is down. Those who damaged the Selden homes spent the night in hotels determined by the Belt Co-op. Sub-law Mehmet Smurf Yaşar said it was a Turkish record, a 605kg of rain per square meter in the region. Our citizens who have been hit by the flood must be identified and provided with the necessary assistance immediately. Again, the Elmalı district of Antalya is subject to floods from time to time. The recent flood of Eskihisar, Salur, Yilmazlı, on August 7, 2018, damaged their neighborhoods. These neighborhoods have never received any help. The Turkmentepe dam must be made first before the flood here does no more harm. It will also prevent our citizens from being harmed if flood-resistant channels are organised and activated. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0172par0552	Mr. Sertel...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0173par0554	Mr. President, thank you. The village of Alışsallıpınar, Yükseksallıpınar, Boyallı village and Laloğlu village of Selim district have greetings to Parliament. No service has ever been to these villages. Other villages -- substructure -- get half-assed service. Only our villagers think it's about the Flame that doesn't even have a nail stuck in these villages. These villages are Alevi villages. Let this be brought up as a disgrace to power. I also call to Ahmet Arlen here: Non-discriminal service is essential. They must also be served in the villages of Alevi. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0174par0558	Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0175par0560	Mr. President, rather than asking our Minister, I'd like to say that I've just had a photo taken with our Minister, which I shared on Twitter, on social media, and I'm glad I did; the IITs, the YHS, the people who are waiting for all the problems are writing all the time. Mr. Minister, what are our government's views on the I.R.T.L.S., the auxiliary services class? Do you have any work on this? These people are waiting for a study. I'd like you to explain, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0174par0562	Thank you. If our group presidents don't have any demands, I'll take a break.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0176par0564	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0174par0565	Please, Akçay...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0176par0567	Mr. President, a speaker who has just made his speech on the stand has been expressed in the form of a generalization of statements that have been used by a member of the public to fight terrorism or to bring heavy charges against security officers who have served there. Now we've looked at the transcripts. There have been heavy accusations of such corruption, such as generalization, behind every country, nation, and terrorist. We also reject, and condemn, those who say "native, national, national, flag, nation," those who are corrupt behind them. Those words are wrong to slander and condemn security guards who fight terrorism and separatism with their lives. A disorder from counterterrorism also refers to our duty. By generalization, we absolutely deny these words to wear down our basic values, such as the country, the nation, the flag, and I'd like to say that I condemn this generalization. Whoever's corrupt, damn him, he'll be punished. However, it is also our right to expect maximum care for such generalizing, false expressions, never to use them again.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0177par0573	Round it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0176par0574	And to make statements in terms of our common values, of the type of bribery, but to try to wear out concepts that should never be discussed, such as the nation, the nation, the flag, and the people who are sensitive about it, and so the negative expressions that need to be avoided should be avoided. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0177par0576	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0178par0577	Our congressman would like to answer in place.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0177par0578	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0179par0580	Mr. President, thank you. Actually, I think what I meant was very clear. Şırnak 2. I just mentioned case 2018/409 of the High Criminal Court. I mean, they were the ones who abused the situation, and I didn't mean a whole lot of it here. What I meant here was just the people in the file. And while I'm saying that, as I said, in the case I gave you his original number, the fourth-grade police commissioner, the police specialist, the police, 19 other people are being tried in this case. My point was clear. I mean, like in the Hrant Dink case, I had a flag abuser, but I definitely didn't mean everyone. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0180par0583	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0181par0584	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0180par0586	Now it's said that the trial continues. He's still on trial, but there's no sentence yet, and that's number one. In relation to a case involving 15, 20 people, the sentence begins with the sentence -- it starts here -- and it starts with the word "whom" and a generalization is being done. I'm stressing it specifically. It should be avoided. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0181par0588	Yeah, yeah... As the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, I believe that all lawmakers here will lay down their lives in the face of a stain on the flag. At the point where 80 million of our people are going to compete in this race, it is wise to be careful when using such expressions with the awareness that a will exists in our nation. Mr. Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0182par0595	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Katırcıoğlu brought up the orange and tangerine as he spoke on the stand and brought up his speech from the context of our President. Now, look, let's look at democracy, belief rights, law state, the most advanced Western democracies in the world, the countries of the Council of Europe, and especially the decisions and provisions of the European Court of Human Rights, which is the Council's jurisdiction. See, the 11th article of the European Convention on Human Rights states the freedom of meetings and demonstration walks immediately (2) what does it mean? He says: "The use of these rights cannot be interpreted contrary to this regulation: the use of these rights, the protection of national security, the protection of public security, the protection of public order and the protection of crime within a democratic society, and the protection of health or morality or other rights and freedoms can not be interpreted against this regulation." He says, "It is not enough, it is enough, it is enough, it is possible that the use of the Law of Meetings and Demonstrations in our own good country, and the rights that are being used by the members of the armed forces, law forces, or by the government. But when we look at Western practices, I want to show with a few photographs that the approach to these rights and freedoms in the West is not as innocent as in Turkey. Especially at the G7 Summit, the heart of Europe, Germany...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0183par0599	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0182par0600	These photos you see are in the heart of Europe, against protesters protesting the G7 Summit. This did not happen in Gezi, it happened in Europe. Again, as you can see, all of these images are from Europe, and none of them are in Turkey. Likewise, the disproportionate force used by the police against yellow vests in Paris -- according to you -- is not being brought up as a violation of human rights freedom.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0184par0602	So the President says I'll blow his neck out. Did he tell a journalist there?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0182par0603	For him, let's stress that freedom is not unlimited anywhere in the world, there are certain limits, which is determined by the Council of Europe, which we are on.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0184par0604	Threatening a journalist...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0182par0605	And I think it's possible that, within these borders, our President has the freedom to make a statement against those who support public security and public order in support of the widespread acts of violence in this country and, of course, carry the national trust of this country on his back.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0184par0606	He's got a right to threaten, doesn't he? He has the right to threaten the journalist!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0185par0607	Listen, listen. Listen!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0182par0608	This isn't over. Other than that, look...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0186par0611	Do you think they should blow your neck out?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0187par0612	Congressmans, I'm going to interrupt the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0188par0613	Let me give you an answer, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0187par0614	I'll give you my word on your position for a minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0189par0616	Mr. President, I'm not finished.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0187par0617	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0189par0618	Now, on the other hand, Mr. Akçay just expressed himself. See, these phrases here are not easily acceptable expressions: they drank 687 million of the Republic of Turkey's budget, they scored. It's got, like I said, cops, gendarmes, rangers and business people claiming to be locals and nationals. I'll leave it to your discretion. He's just tried to fulfill it himself, but it's in the nature of it. The 161st article of our current Civil Code was the 161st, and when we read this text alone, it is clear that this is not acceptable to the public or the State forces or the public body, the organization and its officials, whether to encourage or provoke illegal acts, riots, or break the Constitutional provisions during the meetings.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0190par0620	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0191par0621	You've developed a paranoia.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0189par0622	Or at the same time, the Civil Code dictates that threatening the country's indivisible integrity in no way is appropriate with the scope of the House.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0192par0623	What's that got to do with it?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0189par0624	Now, after I gave the speech on the stand, I didn't mean all of it because...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0193par0626	Round it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0194par0627	Can't a cop make a mistake?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0195par0628	Who bombed the coven, and you didn't answer it?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0629	Twice, in the background of your brain, or in front of it, we can never agree that whatever hatred this nation has for its values, we must say it and tolerate it from us, and it will be judged in the context of human rights and freedoms. Look, no matter how hard you try to get terrorist organizations in the Republic of Turkey to accept propaganda one way or another, through perception games, we won't allow it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0197par0632	It's written by the state courts, not me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0198par0633	Then you'll prove it!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0634	There's some sort of hostility in front of your word and behind this flag, home, nation and state.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0197par0635	You're deflecting.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0636	Side by side with oil companies, gun barons, interest lobbying, bottom by bottom...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0199par0637	We know who they are.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0638	...in this country, freedom and democracy don't come to no one.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0199par0639	We know who they are.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0200par0640	Listen, listen.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0641	I'm finishing my sentences, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0201par0642	That's no way to run a state!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0643	Look, a hundred and six years ago -- I said this once -- it started in Libya, and it started in Tripoli, Egypt, Yemen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0202par0645	Pack it up, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0196par0646	...as the Palestinian breaks up, Syria, Baghdad and again the Balkans, Selanik, Bosnia and Herzegovina fall, we have seen such betrayals in this country, and in the result of a hundred and fifty-two hundred years of reading history, I declare that we will never, ever, ever tolerate treason and such terrorist propaganda.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0203par0648	You can't call criticism treason.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0204par0649	You're slandering and not listening!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0205par0650	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0203par0651	Criticism is the truth, lawful.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0204par0652	It's not criticism, it's mud, it's mud, it's slander! You're lying.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0203par0653	You're not the only one.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0206par0654	Your group vice president asked for a word.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0203par0655	Every critique is treason!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0206par0656	I'd appreciate it if you'd express your thoughts without causing a disturbance.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0658	Thank you, Mr. President. I say to all parties who travel in the same lane, every time you're in a jam, you can't accuse us of treason and wave a finger. You call terrorism aiding, etcetera, you work with terrorist organizations, you work with them, you have business relations.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0208par0661	You guys are in business, who's in business!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0209par0662	Then curse the PKK!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0663	Don't talk about it! Don't talk, don't talk!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0208par0664	Look in the mirror, in the mirror! Look in the mirror first!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0665	You're the business manager of a bloody terrorist organization like ISIS, so don't do anything about it. At the same time...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0210par0666	What is the PKK?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0211par0667	Speak without shaking your hand!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0668	Don't talk, friends.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0212par0669	You can't even say that PKK is a terrorist organization!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0213par0670	What is the PKK?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0671	Why don't you tell us about your relationship with ISIS here?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0214par0672	Curse the PKK from there!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0673	Why did you trouble this Turkey? You're saying Turkey cleans the intestines. What intestines?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0215par0674	You're dealing with them! You're in business with them!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0675	The insides of Turkey are all mixed up, you call them colonic cleansing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0215par0676	You're the one doing business with them.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0677	You're the owner of all this.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0216par0678	Tell me if the PKK is a terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0679	At the same time, to point out a journalist, a journalist who was in charge of his work, is he a tangerine or what?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0217par0681	You make the point, you know it best.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0218par0682	He's not a journalist, he's not a journalist.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0683	I'm not finished, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0219par0684	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0685	Would it be appropriate for a president to accuse such a journalist as a target?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0220par0686	That's no way to be a journalist.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0687	We still don't understand the President here.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0221par0688	You show the best target.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0689	He's talking about the ECHR again. What decision do you comply with? When it comes to your work, the ECHR takes sides when it doesn't work for you. The President also kept a decision in the ECHR, and we'll see how it works, we'll move back, we'll finish the job. He said, "You're quiet again."
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0222par0690	Public order, public safety, public morality...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0691	Again, you're the one who abused the flag, our friends say so. The flag is being abused, so don't defend it at all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0223par0692	You don't even have a flag.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0693	There's a lot of cases in which there's a lot of abuse that goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0224par0694	The flag is always our shadow, always.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0695	You know what you guys can't stomach? That's what you do to district lawmakers in particular. You can't digest how the Kurds we printed and ignored came, and this can still speak in front of us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0225par0697	You're suppressing the Kurds.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0207par0698	Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0226par0699	You're still promoting Kandil.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0225par0700	You're the one who oppressed the Kurds.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0227par0701	You're putting pressure on the Kurds. You put pressure on the Kurds, you make the threat.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0228par0702	You can't stomach Kurds.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0229par0703	It's always the same thing, you don't produce anything, you keep saying the same thing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit02spe0230par0704	I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0230par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0231par0002	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0230par0003	Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0231par0005	I have a question for the Minister, but there is no Minister. The National Real Estate Office has been linked to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism. Hence, serious problems have arisen at the institution. From Osmanlı to the present day, what reasons did the National Realty General Directorate, which is a long-standing government in the Ministry of Finance, be taken from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism? Has the institutional archive of government administration been noted for its importance in meeting the citizens' demands? What ease or difficulties did this change have in serving staff in cities, districts, and business flow? Are you going to put the National Realty General Office back to the Treasury and Finance Department to restore its former structure? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0232par0009	We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account C) KAMU IHALE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account The commission is in place. We're moving on to speeches on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first statement is from İzmir MP Selin Sayek Böke. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0233par0049	Mr. President, there is no Minister. Can we give you a heads-up?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0234par0050	I salute the House. I wish the Minister were here to hear the truth. Turkey is in a deep economic crisis. Growth is down to 1.6 per cent in the last quarter. Industrial production has been reduced by 5.7% yearly, not just slowed down. The consumer inflation was 1 per cent, and inflation for the manufacturers was 38 per cent. The real unemployment rate is 18%. At the beginning of the dry year, the exchange was 3,76. Today, at 5.30. It's 40 percent more expensive than the investment and intermediary we have to import to produce. Mr. Minister recently said: "Turkey has entered the Stagflation. The answer has been answered." But all the data claims otherwise. It is clear that those who have received the answer do not have a crises. Those who have received the answer are, like Mr. Secretary, the Turkish economy is in macroeconomic stabilisation. Stabilization where? There's a severe crisis. There are two main reasons for this crisis. First of all, the fact that public resources have been deliberately transferred by power by the power to fund a rant shop rather than to build a support for themselves, which means that they deliberately and willingly ignore 99 percent of the people, if they have one percent of the people, if they don't have it, they spend it for the palace. The second is the understanding of the law, the inclusive institutions, the only man who ignores democracy and its regime. Neither was established in a foreign capital, both of which -- all of these conditions that caused the crisis -- were established in Ankara, the capital of this republic, and not by mistake, but by purpose and willingly by power in the palace. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Four basic questions about this budget need to be answered. First, is the budget realistic? The answer is not obvious; no, it isn't. Because there are strong contradictions between the words of understanding and the action of that understanding. The government, for example, shouts out the fiscal lobby, bringing a budget that costs $117 billion in interest to parliament. The government, on the one hand, attributes everything from train crash to crisis in the economy to external powers, but on the other hand, does not do any reform needed to transform our external-dependent production, the external-dependent debt system. The government, on the one hand, calls it the policy of money and finance, which only applies to the public, to the workers, to the SME and to the shopkeeper, but it continues to relax the world for the runner. It cuts $14 billion of public investments that people and our future need to get out of the crisis, cuts social security spending $10 billion, but gives $14 billion of guarantees to subsidiary capital with a community-private partnership. The power also shouts anti-IMF from political scenes, while the IMF puts it in front of the public on behalf of an IMF programme without an IMF. The IMF says: "Do the severance reform." The New Economic Programme says: "I am going to reform the severance package. "The IMF says: flex the employment market, make it unsecured. The New Economic Programme says: I will make the public working order flexible. The IMF says: "Amanha ha, don't increase wages." The New Economy Programme says: We will not increase it by increasing its budget. The IMF says: We will not increase it by increasing its budget. The government, on the one hand, calls it a free market economy, but on the other hand, it's going to count onions with the cops. The government, on the one hand, declares that it is not selling its foreign currency under a pillow, that it is a traitor, and that it is about to borrow it with treasure, with dollars, and that it is guaranteed to do it for the first time -- buying tattoos, exchanges, exchanges, exchanges, exchanges; camomile fortunes -- is really cutting society off from reality. The government, on the one hand, talks as if they're claiming to lower interest, while the Treasury tenders are being randomly canceled. That's not enough, the real interest in the market continues to increase day by day, imposed low interest on market-building financial institutions. The bottom line is, what a diet, what a sauerkraut! What you're saying and what you're doing don't add up. Question two: can this budget cure the crisis? The answer is obvious: no, this crisis cannot be solved with this budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Third and most important issue: is there a democracy in this budget? Is there a budget in this budget? We've been discussing budgets in the House for weeks. Whereas there's an elephant in the middle of the living room, and no one talks about it. We have to tell that truth every time. First, the Treasury resources are linked to a hose and a private status, a private company, the Fund for Property. The President and his son-in-law took over the Entity Fund. He's tied to the Treasury with a hose, the treasure. So with a decision from the Council of Ministers, all taxes collected in the Treasury can be transferred directly to the Entity Fund by a decision, which can be swallowed in secret by the asset fund, in a pen. At the same time, even if this budget is rejected by this new regime in parliament, there are no political consequences. Even if we reject this budget here, the President is still on his way by increasing his revaluement rate. Parliaments, on the other hand, are built to make budgets. Parliaments are the home of a democracy that has risen above the budget rights of one man's regime. The fourth and most important question for us is, what should be done and who will do it? We'll do it, because it's impossible for power to do it. If he does, it means he destroys himself. So let's tell you what we're going to do: first of all, this crisis didn't just arise from the wrongs in economic policy. Economic policies must change in order to overcome the crisis, but far beyond that, this country needs law, democracy and peace. He needs to build a parliamentary democracy based on freedom. We will build that new order, democracy in the name of the people. This order needs a public economy. Not for Rant's capital, not for 1%; for the public, for 99 percent, he needs a system that works together. And to do that, we need to do a reform package that will be paid for by those who make the crisis, and we're going to do it. Today, the tax system, which crushes the public, will crush the atmosphere of this crisis, must change immediately. This people didn't cause the crisis, the public won't pay the bill for the crisis. The crisis was brought out by the court and its associates, and the court and its partner will pay the bill. [[Applause from CHP rows]] We have to get the rent tax right away; we'll get it. The government must do the law's work and publish the tax paradise list immediately; we will publish it. The proportion of indirect taxes from consumption must be reduced, a fair order paid by taxes, compared to what it earns. We need to establish a system that pays more taxes by the winner, not by the person who earns billions of dollars from mega projects, but by the person who pays more taxes. Public-private cooperation with public-private co-operation, which brings a huge burden to the public, must immediately be converted into Turkish lira guarantees. We'll come, we'll convert it into Turkish lira, and we'll transfer the source to the public; we'll do it. The family company needs to end this asset fund bullshit right now. The property of the Republic must be taken from the family company and restored to the Republic and to the 80 million; we will. We're dealing with a recession, a crisis of recession and inflation at the same time. This creates a heavy unemployment picture. There's $125 billion in unemployment insurance funds that are not spent on unemployed; it's used to create non-existent media, to spread lies from that media, to save construction workers with public banks from the unemployment insurance fund. We will use the unemployment fund for the unemployed and for the losers of this order. Turkey needs production reform immediately and urgently. We need the digitalization of COBIs, the freedom of entrepreneurs, the PayPal, Wikipedia, the freedom of new ideas; we will do it. We're going to do this production reform with light and peace, not a darkness that's trapped and always filled over the outside enemy; we're going to do it. The distribution of public resources and the policy of incentives usually need to be changed immediately. We need incentives to respond to Turkey's needs, not to surrender to the company and address. So it's obvious, the choices are very clear.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0235par0074	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Böke.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0234par0075	Now. This budget is the budget for the continuation of the palace order. It's a budget that puts the bill of the budget crisis on the public. It's a budgetary budget that's creating a budget crisis. Turkey, on the other hand, has a public budget when it comes to the crisis, with a new, publicist political power, which will be the basis for a public budget. It's the order that has to change. We're going to change that order. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0236par0079	The second statement belongs to Antalya MP Cetin Osman Budak Bey. Here you go, Mr. Budak.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0237par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Like the rest of the budget, the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget does not meet the citizens' expectations from the budget. This budget has nothing to do with the public's agenda. When you go out on the street and talk to Mehmet the welder, you see how he's going to support his four children with a minimum wage of $1,603. Besides, what's going to happen to these kids if they don't get to clean houses and they don't have insurance and they can't work because of their wife's illness and they can't send them to school? An elementary school child's average monthly education has increased by 50 percent between last year and this year. Bakkal İsmail Abi is aware that the chain that opens directly before him, to his right, to his left, and to his left, will sink the 40-year-old store of the chain that was opened to him, but he tries to stand with honor; he's losing, trying to stand with dignity. This year alone, there are 4,700 tradesmen closing their doors in Antalya, my constituency. The number of trades closing 95,000 shutters across Turkey increased by 10 per cent last year. Ms. Hande studied for four years, one of the 400,000 unassigned teachers. We know the desperation of power in the field of education, and we see it, and I remember these 400,000 teachers who were the victims of unplannedness. Also, if she became a teacher, she was in line to become a cop, could I be appointed as a policeman? She said, "Can I be appointed as a policeman?" She's looking for a minimum wage now; she can't find him, she knows she'll get a salary under the hunger line because today the level of hunger limit is $1.943, my friends. About 4 million people are unemployed. The situation of young people is a disaster; one or more out of every four young people is unemployed. Retired Seyhan Abla can't even pay off her credit card, she flips her credit card again, and now she knows what she can do at the least instalment point, and she's pessimistic about her future. The number of cards in pursuit is 2,340,000 friends. Ten per cent of those with credit cards are operational. Omar, 45, works as a clerk, can't live on his low salary, can't find a new job because of his age, can't get a pension, has the same fate as 100,000 pensioners. Last year, he finished high school, worked construction for the city, staying in the same room with seven of his friends, lice and fleas. A friend they worked with last year died from construction because there were no security measures. According to official figures, 1,797 workers lost their lives in the first 11 months of 2018. Consider the 16-year bill. More than 12 million citizens in the AKP's administration have been processed by prosecutors as suspects. So almost 20 percent of society is suspicious. Social peace with AKP's polarisation policy faces more threats than ever in the history of the republic. Dear friends, these are some of the agendas that concern our citizens, just some of them. After 16 years of process, the painting is so dark that they can't even imagine our young people. (CHP clapping in rows) They got the worker, the worker, and they made the ally rich. For example, in 2017 alone, you cut 30 billion taxes on 6 million minimum wage fees with an SGK bonus. In contrast, you applied 126 billion-dollar exemptions and exceptions to the taxpayers' taxes. There's a situation in this whole landscape where we have to hand over your rights: you've made roads, you've led coupters, you've deployed them to the most critical points of the state, they've come, they've tried to bring you down; you've made roads; they've killed the ambassador of a country in our capital; they've come and destroyed the spoon shop; you've let the perpetrators escape. You've made our citizen's life very difficult, but you've made it easier for him to become Turkish citizenship. No matter who you are, make a pledge to buy $250,000 worth of real estate. Come, become a Turkish citizen. Another of the most important features of this budget is the fact that spending is free of transparency, which is now a tradition in AKP power. Possible guarantee payments on public-private co-operation projects, which have reached 45 billion liras in size, have been made by special effort...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0238par0095	Let's wrap it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0237par0096	... thatyou'vehidden in the pens of transfers or service costs to the household. Likewise, there was no detailed information in the budget or anywhere in the budget talks about the savings of state institutions in 2019, which was hidden from the public. What are you doing with a tattoo? You said to the citizen, "Cash the change under the pillow." You campaigned, you didn't, and now you're trying to raise dollars from the citizens with bonds exported by the Treasury to give the stranger 7.5 per cent in dollars, but the interest is 4 per cent. As a result, this budget is a budget of persecution that ignores justice, minimum wage, pension, officer, business, farmer. This budget is a budget that is unresolved, unintended, unintended, incompatible, visionary, and most importantly without a conscience. With these feelings, I'd like to express here that we're voting no for the budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0239par0102	Sinop MP Barış is in the Black Sea. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Peace.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0105	Mr. President, Mr. Court, our most valued deputies, our dear people who are listening to us on their screens, I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Today, I'm going to address the President of the IRS, but I can't help but say that you don't own your own budget, the Minister doesn't. Everything's at the Republican People's Party, the whole staff is standing up here. If there's a Republican People's Party, remember, there's one for you. The chairmanship of the Development Administration is an organization founded to implement income policy in justice and neutrality, to collect taxes at minimum cost, to ensure the taxpayers' voluntary compliance with taxes, to respect the taxpayers' rights, to serve on the principles of participation, efficiency and self-focusedness. In our country, however, when these descriptions are written in a beautiful language, they come into practice, and it's completely irrelevant. We call it implementing income policy in fairness and neutrality. Again, the definition is good, but the application is incoherent, unfair and ruthless. During the 16-year period of AKP power, you sold the institutions that the nation has been taxing for years, selling them for $60 billion. These were companies that paid direct taxes, profited, profited. Now what? Indirectly, you've put the tax on this citizen's back -- with the OTV, with the VAT, with the indirect taxes. Just take your hand out of the citizen's pocket. Unfortunately, by the Central Compromise Commission, you removed the debt of men like Mehmet Genghis, who owed 425 million taxes between 2004 and 2009, overnight. I'm afraid you're asking this citizen again, rather than to answer to your supporters who have invested in his income. In 15 or 16 years, you've collected 3 trillion 800 billion taxes from all over the world, and you've taken 1 trillion 228 billion directly, 2 trillion 526 billion from the public's pocket through indirect tax. In 16 years, 67.2% of the government's tax collection came out of the citizens' pockets. This citizen pays taxes 24/7. He wakes up in the morning -- the summer hour app -- he hits the light, and as soon as he does, he starts paying five taxes right away. He's gonna wash his face -- water -- he's gonna turn on the tap to wash his face, four taxes. He's getting in his car, he's hitting the ignition, he's going to start burning taxes instead of burning gas. (CHP turns to applause) Unfortunately, with this exploitation, you're not taking a day away from a citizen's day, you're taking a lifetime away. Now, I'm going to ask you a question, for those of you who know history, the President who was born, who found the first coin?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0241par0112	Let's go... China.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0113	The Lydians.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0241par0114	China, China.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0115	Who found the tax? Sumerians.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0241par0116	It's not the Lydians. The Lydians found the exchange.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0117	Mr. President, the Sumerians found it; find out, learn history, and so do I. All right, who got the tax, and who got the tax?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0242par0119	CHP found it, CHP found it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0120	AKP. The money found in 700 B.C.E., the tax found in 400 B.C.E.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0243par0121	The money came out in China, the trampa, the trampa, the trampa, not the money. That's not true.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0122	You found taxing, taxing, and taxing. You went to the history books. As the Lidians, Sumerians and AKP members, you have entered the history books, where I congratulate you once again.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0244par0123	And you found the six zeroes, the six zeroes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0124	There's no management of a income that's at the height of injustice in the income distribution, the record of tax injustice, and social justice is ignored, but it's a waste, my friends, it's a waste. There used to be record holders of corporate tax, now the record holders are banks. I'm afraid you're putting this country to shame. We've opened our hearts. Mr. President says we're the 17th largest economy in the world, we're the 1st in welfare and open hearts.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0245par0126	That's right.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0127	Yes, we opened the door to the Syrians...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0245par0128	Our own citizen, our own citizen, his own.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0129	Maybe there was a need. Open the door to this citizen, open your hearts to this citizen.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0246par0131	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0240par0132	If you open your heart to this citizen, these doors will open.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0247par0134	Let us open our hearts to man, to man, to man, not to man. Let's open our hearts to humanity.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0248par0135	We open them to all human beings, to all human beings, to the oppressed.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0247par0136	Let's open our hearts to people.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0249par0137	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0250par0138	From Qatar, there are wealthy people from Syria who own property here without paying taxes, and from this citizen, you get 8 percent VAT even from bagels. (CHEERING) This isn't work. Why don't you collect taxes from diamonds and yachts? You've made it your business to collect taxes from citizens, not from allies. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0249par0141	Adıyaman MP Abdurrahman Tutdere is in line. Here you are, Mr. Abdurrahman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0251par0144	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the People's Party budget. I salute your high council with respect and love. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, in the '80s, '90s, especially in public contracts and public purchases, have brought the 2001 crisis to our country. In the name of the 2001 crisis, the Public Contraction Act 4734 and the Public Relations Association were committed in 2002. According to the law, the Public Contraction Agency was committed as an independent, neutral and regulatory institution, and this institution was implemented. Well, with the law, is this institution established for this purpose able to carry out its mission today, to see if the Public Contraction Act is able to serve its purpose during the AK PARTY rule. Dear lawmakers, the concept of peace is the favorite concept of the palace and its surroundings. Therefore, the law, which has been most changed during the AK PARTY rule, has been the Public Contraction Act. The AK PARTY government, which came to power in 2002, broke the historical record with this law, making a complete 190 changes in a hundred and ninety months. During the period of your rule, the last amendment to the third article, which regulates the exceptions of the law, has been modified by the Turkish Cypriots, and with this change in the last letter of our alphabet (z) the last joke has been added. Now that the demands of the followers continue, and it will be impossible to add a new joke to this law, I would like to make a suggestion to you from here: I propose the 74-letter Cambodian alphabet. (CHP cheers) From now on, this alphabet is the only one that can meet the demands of his followers, dear friends.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0252par0150	That's not enough!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0251par0151	Dear friends, of course, it didn't even happen to the cooked head of the Public Contraction Act. Well, by the way, I'd like to see what the agency has done, if the Public Contractor Agency can really do its job as a supervisor. Has the Public Contraction Agency ever done its duty, especially to protect its right to an orphan? He didn't. Was he able to get taxes from pensioners, farmers, tradesmen, small incomes, public taxes to be used correctly? No. Can the Public Contractorship protect an unfinished orphan's rights? No. Can the Public Contraction Agency break the hand that goes to the Beytulmah? No. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, corruption in public tenders in the 80-90s has led to the 2001 crisis and the 2008 crisis of democracy and law, which was destroyed during the EC PARTY. The draining of the budget is the result of this looting and ranking understanding. Based on the European Union Progress Report and the 2017 Corruption Perception Index Report, our country's situation is very pessimistic. Turkey is ranked 81st in 180 countries. According to the Perception Index, Turkey's decline to the final ranks is due to changes in its tender legislation and the public institution and its organisations turning to undeclared and invitation-style tenders instead of open tenders. Recently, municipal tenders and tenders in areas where politicians are particularly active are being used as a means of funding for certain parts, which is perceived by the public. Therefore, our people and foreign markets have little confidence in our public financial system and our tenders. Dear MPs, in order to fight the crisis, as our President-General Kemal Kilicdaroglu has pointed out, there must and must be a reform in public finance, the Public Contraction Act must be changed. According to the President's statement, the country's gardens and national legislatures, which will be built with the hands of TOKI and municipalities, have been excluded from the law, and have been tendered to supporters at high prices, especially recently. I'd like to call the government from here on behalf of the nation's stand.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0253par0158	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0251par0159	Instead of building a factory with taxes collected from the nation, instead of building a garden, come build factories where six million unemployed children will work. (CHP rows) Come and build schools where people will play in their children's gardens, open universities where scientists will grow up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0254par0160	We're doing them, they're doing them; don't worry, they're all being done.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0255par0161	Mr. Recep, don't harass me! What are you harassing me for?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0251par0162	You know what people want from you guys? And the people ask of you their forest which ye have set up for the sake of the rant, and ask of them their suburbs, and ask of them their feet, and ask of them their mountains, and their plains. The nation asks you for work, for bread; the people ask you for peace, for justice, and justice, dear friends. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0256par0165	The order belongs to Burdur MP Mehmet Göker Bey. Yes, Mr. Mehmet Göker.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0257par0168	Mr. President, when you said privatisation, you conducted a total of $60.9 billion privatisation between 2003 and 2017. After all, with a system of looting, looting, and enriching allies, there is only poverty and only poverty left for us. So what's the point of this privatisation? When the cut we're talking about is out in the open, all we've got is hate, more hate, more anti-existence, more decomposition, more separation, more left. As a result, in a speech made by President Denizli. He forgot that everyone was President, and said to a person who was opposed to you, he said, "You will agree -- you will agree." But we'd expect... there's a reporter on the television stations who's enthusiastically singing to the columns, and he came out, and he said: "The people in the ship's actions should be beheaded." Did we hear a word? We couldn't hear. Now, look, here's what I'm going to show you: this is orange; this is tangerine; this is the Conqueror Orange.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0258par0171	Forget the Washington orange.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0259par0172	Oh, that's your guy. He's ours, he's yours.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0257par0173	We call out to you from here: You may peel and eat oranges, but we will not make you eat Orange the Conqueror.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0258par0175	Don't be an orange lawyer, don't be a Washington orange lawyer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0260par0176	For the good of Orange the Conqueror.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0258par0177	Washington orange, stay there.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0261par0178	It's natural to talk about money when it comes to budgets, but when there's no money in the budget, at least in order to save social peace, we want to give you a warning. Look, we only live in a country where 319 children have died since 2013. Look, the total percentage of people registered in the inventory of poverty is 39.5%. 16 million people are on the verge of starvation. According to 2015 figures, the number of people convicted of rape has increased from 523 to 12,253. Now, in 2002, when you arrived, the number of people who had a billion dollars was five. According to 2017, this number is 40. So with an increase of 800 percent, you created people with billions of dollars. The citizen, however, is hungry, unable to make the end of the month, and is moonlighting to bring it in. Like it or not, we're tired of you labelling every person in this country who wants justice, wants justice, and wants to use their rights written in the Constitution. Another one -- since there was a quarrel coming from the side -- said our group's deputy last night, a writer of the Akit newspaper, which we call your favorite but called the "pachavra," said unspeakable things to the spiritual son of our Founding Father, and did you say anything to that, did we hear a single word? We couldn't hear. In this direction, we say that we will vote against you and vote against this budget. In the final words, you are very afraid of Gezi, you are very afraid of people being thrown back out into the street, but if you have not made a mistake - a Chinese proverb says so - do not fear the devil. If you're in a country... look, it suits you very well...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0262par0185	We didn't make a mistake, we're warning you not to.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0261par0186	Congressman, you must be the new staff pitcher.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0262par0187	Yeah, it's me, it's me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0261par0188	And there were two before you, and there were two beholders, and you were on a straight path.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0262par0190	I used to be on staff.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0261par0191	If the shadows of small people are growing in a country, the sun is setting in that country, friends, just like you are. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0263par0194	Hatay MP Ismet Tokdemir is next in line.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0264par0196	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of 2019 of the President of the Privatisation Administration. I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] If they asked me what is the economic programme of the Justice and Development Party, my answer would simply be to sell only what belongs to the nation.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0265par0199	Nobody's gonna ask you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0264par0200	Really, the first job he's ever done since he was in power has only been privatisation. Privatisation is one of the biggest evils the ruling party has ever done to the Turkish nation. Not only did the Republic's 90-year savings go away, but the fixed capital worth trillions of dollars didn't change hands, but every privatisation of the economy and society suffered serious damage. If you want an example, there are so many of the people's properties: more than 200 people's industrial facilities, factories, ports, bridges, public buildings, plots, TELEKOM, TIPRAS, ERDEMIR, TEKEL, SEKA, PETKIM, sugar factories, more than 2,600. Dear lawmakers, I would like to share these sales with you as a painful lesson. TAPRAC, sold for $1.3 billion in the first tender, was sold for $4.1 billion in the second tender after the rescinding of the sale through trial. I leave the difference between two tenders to your consciences. [[Applause from CHP rows]] One of our proverbs says that a good son eats and sells and sells bad children. (Applause) From the factories our Republic had built in poverty, we had one sugar factory left, and you sold them. Dear lawmakers, Cargill, one of the 12 global companies, produce starch-based sugars in the Plains of Bursa, despite all the cases that have been won. The use of starch-based sugar is restricted all over the world, while quotas are increased in my country. This sugar makes cancer, sterilizes us, drains us, threatens the health of the entire nation. So the sale of sugar factories concerns the entire Turkish nation. This should be handled immediately as a matter of policy. After the privatisation of sugar factories, it will not close, it will produce for at least five years. So it closes in five years, like the Sumerbanks, like TEKEL, like the Meat and Fish Foundation, like the SECA paper factories. Now the winds are blowing in their place, and the malls, the money temples of global gangs, are rising in their places. Those AVMs, who put a match at the root of the small merchant, lured the people into a shopping trap. All we have left of these privatisations is our end of animalism, our foreign and plundered factory plots. The situation of TÜRK TELEKOM is obvious; the government cannot pay its debt; the government cannot buy it, and the government cannot sell it. The government does not learn from the situation of Turkey, which it has sold to the foreigner with the name Turkish. The sales of public assets, based on years of effort and savings, have not cost the growth of the economy, but have not reduced the public's internal and external debt.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0266par0209	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0264par0210	What investments have you made with the revenues from these sales, what employment have you paid for? By squandering these revenues, you were only able to compensate for the interest of overindulgence. You created today's horrible painting, which is the result of your political shortsightedness. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I salute you all with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0266par0214	Çanakkale MP Özgür Ceylan Bey is in charge.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0267par0216	Mr. President, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, I have made a pledge on the budget of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards. I hereby salute your high council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] It is one of the most basic indicators of democracy that the tax collected can be controlled where it is spent. The point is, it's a question of who and how to use tax revenues. The budget preferences of the rulings also show class stances. From this point of view, this budget is a clear indicator of an understanding that ignores Turkey's labour masses. The budget we discussed was brought to our attention by the Commission, prepared to increase the well-being of one man and his associates in the palace, without changing a single comma. Our country is in the worst economic crisis of our history, whose consequences are increasingly unbearable. The bill of the crisis will become even heavier for our people after the election. This crisis cannot be explained by the speech of the terrorist journalist, the priest, with his cries, "O Germany! O U.S.A.!" An economic attack against Turkey in a foreign capital cannot be avoided by allegations as planned. Explain it so people know which capital set this trap? [[Applause from CHP rows]] For 16 years, this nation has been told stories of the fiscal lobby, while the public-private sector has set a historic record with 457 billion dollars in debt. For the first time in the history of the Republic of Turkey, the proportion of foreign debt to national income has increased by over 50 per cent. The main reason for this is the faulty economic policies of the AKP. The government's decision, which allowed non-transmitters to borrow money in 2009, is a reason for this painting. Millions of households in the country owe money to their necks. The total total of housing, transportation, need loans and individual credit card debt is over 550 billion. The banks have two hands on each other's necks. Our small-income people have fallen into a total debt spiral. Can you say that such an economy is well managed? One of Turkey's largest working classes, the peasant and agricultural sector has been destroyed. That's what I'm gonna do. Let's see what fertilizer and diesel prices were in the years when the country's resources began to be looted. In 2002, the ammonium sulfate fertilizer was $1,300, $2,200 when it was $237 per uret, $2,800 on the DAP 354, and the average increase in all is 780 per cent. The diesel that bent our village's back increased from $1.25 to $6.00 in 2002, up 380 per cent. In 2002, our farmer bought 1 litre of diesel with 3.5 kilos of wheat. Today he can buy the same diesel with seven kilos of wheat. So, what product did the farmer produce when their input increased so much that the price increased by 700 per cent in 16 years? Neither. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, Turkish workers are experiencing the virtual reality created by the AKP. The truth is, friends, Turkey doesn't produce. Yesterday, Turkey, a country of agriculture and livestock, is able to feed its population, import hundreds of products today, such as lentils, beans, rice, meat, hay, living animals. In the market, in the market, most of the products are now coming from the outside. There's a problem with beka. You have no chance of getting anywhere by accusing those who are not your own, that they are not national and domestic. The sea ran out, it smelled of salt. AKP's economic policy on non-employment, not production, not consumption, not exports, has failed. You're trying to make our people pay for the crisis, not the economic system you're building, but the people who have no responsibility in the crisis. Economic pressure does not only produce poverty, inequality and exploitation; as a result, violence and lawlessness develops and the decision of the judge does not concern us. You start to say that this decision does not concern us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0268par0227	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0267par0228	Honourable MPs, they bind you; they bind you, they bind us. The constitutional framework is open, the state of the Republic of Turkey is the state of law, and the law is binding for everyone. You are neither king nor sultan. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0268par0231	The order belongs to Adana MP Orhan Sumer Bey. Here you go, Mr. Sumer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0269par0234	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Banking Organization and Control Agency. I salute our High Council and our fellow citizens who follow us. It seems the people who made this budget didn't make their choice for justice, law and the public, but they want us to vote. But in this budget, we have no demands of poor, small income citizens, no demands of workers, pensioners, farmers, no demands of the industrialists, no concerns of the unemployed, no public, no rights, no law. Dear lawmakers, the crisis in our country is deepening day by day. Retired people are below the age of hunger, minimum wagers are miserable. Our farmers are desperate, waiting for help from their government to get rid of the loan sharks. Our tradesman is troubled, our industrialist is troubled. Citizens pay off their debts with debt. In 2002, citizens' total debt to banks was $6.7 billion, while today the debt was approximately $520 billion. In 16 years, the debt of the citizen has increased about 78 times. At the same time, the interest the citizen pays the banks is $55.5 billion. IN 10 months, the debt owed to the banks was 640 billion. Since he failed to pay off his debt, the number of followers of the SME has risen to 333,000. The firms declare a consecutive concordato, which means the citizen is in debt, unable to breathe. At a time like this, it was the financial sector that made the most money. According to the BDK, the bank's net profit of the period amounted to 45 billion liras during the first ten months of 2018. In addition to the interest he pays to banks, desperate citizens who use loans and try to repay their debt with debt, they also pay in the name of wages, commissions, banking services. In the first ten months, the interest-free revenues of banks that profited are over 60 billion. For him, this budget is not for those who reach out to the fire, but for those who light the fire. (CHP) This is the budget of people who want to pay the bill for the budget crisis. We're going to vote for him, for the public, for the law, for this budget. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear MPs, it is our primary duty as Adana MP to address problems related to Adana, to ask for solutions to problems. In the 1980-1990s, there was no sign of Adana, where smoke was smoked from the chimneys of every factory. In Adana, a land that has the blessing of God, our farmer is humbled. Just the other day, he was in Adana, the Minister of Commerce, and I did not describe the number of Adana in the trade share of this country to Adana. That is because power has no knowledge of the truth of Adana. Because because of its place in the Adana incentive legislation, it is no longer the center of attraction, it is not able to invest, and those who exist are stopped. Here's an example: our beaches of ovaries and Blackstone, which were declared a tourist incentive twelve years ago, not even nails were nailed. Ceyhan Industries, where there's been no progress for 11 years. Here's Çukurova Airport, which has been tendered in 2011, has changed three contractors, but is still not known for its outcome today. For this reason, Adana is the capital of unemployment today, where 230 thousand registered Syrians live. Therefore, Adana today is the capital of poverty. Dear MPs, Mr. Secretary, tell us what you suggest, and we'll pass it on to our friends. We call from here: "Come, finish all the projects in Adana at once, and build new factories for Adana. Support our farmers, our merchants, and our industrialists in Adana, and provide more work for Adana, and more food. And that's when you might have paid off our brother Emine, our brother, Behti, the worker who died in a dumpster in Kozan, who, sadly, died in the orange pods, the 15-year-old Halil, who died because of his debts, to public contractors -- 6 in Adana, 6 -- who burned all of our hearts, in the fire of Aladağ, who killed us all. Maybe then you would have paid off your debt to our children from Aladağ, who lost their lives.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0270par0242	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0269par0243	Then you won't be taking the public's money for a bunch of usurers, loan sharks, dealers. That's when you realize what it's like to make a public budget. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0270par0246	It belongs to İzmir MP Bedri Serter Bey.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0271par0248	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the firm account of the Undersecretary of the Treasury within the framework of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal talks. I hereby salute you and the High Council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I'd like to start by saying that a weak nation of economies can't get rid of poverty and poverty, they can't get away from a strong civilization, development and happiness, they can't avoid social and political destruction. Count some of what you've sold: Turkish TELEKOM, TUPRAM, PETCIM, TEKEL, Turkish Airlines and many others. You even sold the Ephes Hotel of Izmir. You sold power distribution companies, ports, sold them, sold them. What's left in the treasure? You have sold the property of the people of the Republic of Turkey, the land of the nation, the land of the Republic of Turkey, which is the gains of the Republic of Turkey and its friends, and we will ask each and every one of them, where is our treasure? [[Applause from CHP rows]] The security of a country's integrity, safe and future is the treasure of the Republic of Turkey. By vacuuming this treasure, you've created a structure called the Turkish Entity Fund, which you've now converted into a debt fund, and a few days ago you've handed over to a family kingdom. The public doesn't know who their partners are, and neither do we. In addition, this Entity Fund under one man won't be enough, so in your second 100-day Action Plan, Mr. AKP President also said we're going to set up a Turkey development fund. I'm curious about the purpose here. And when I read that there's going to be a new foreign debt, like $1 billion, added new funds, believe me, if I know a little bit of economics, I got goose bumps. Making the country look like it's growing with funds and debts, it can't be that the treasure of 81 million dollars in Turkey is managed by one person. Where's our treasure? Mr. Secretary, we grew up in the budget presentation. You say, "We grew up in the budget presentation." But according to the latest data, growth is only 1.6; from 7.4 to 1.6. You're like the rookie driver of a truck with no brakes. We're shrinking, we're getting poor, we're disappearing. In 16 years, you put Turkey into an external debt mess. Since 2002, the public's debt has increased by 4 times, the real sector debt by 29 times, the debt by the households by 78 times, and the total debt by 11 times. And the spring was finished, and the sea was dried up, and it was not enough: and ye coveted the savings of the people of the unemployment fund, and took them as collateral, and tied them to the bonds of treasure. Where are the goods you're selling, the savings you've stolen from the citizen, the unaccounted funds, and I want to account for that. Again, where is our treasure? In 2002, the population was 66.6 million, and each baby was born in debt of $1,963. By the year 2018, our population reached 81 million, and every baby born today, unfortunately, owes $11.212. What is the sin of those who are born with a growing debt, Mr. Secretary? From where to where, right? In 2002, the household owed $6.6 billion and $525 billion in 2018. In 2002, the company's total debt was $88 billion, $2 trillion 553 million in 2018. In 2002, citizens owed 6.5 billion in loans; in 2018 32 million in debt, 575 billion in debt. In 2002, after the crisis, there were only 2 million unemployed in Turkey, 4 million friends in 2018, 4 million in Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0272par0259	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0271par0260	The Turkish foreign debt you took over in 2002 was 130 billion, and as of 2018, our external debt was 457 billion dollars.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0273par0261	What's the GDP rate? Give me the ratio.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0271par0262	We're poor, we're in debt, we're in debt. Look, I'm going to give you a more naive number: in 2002 we had 169 dollars in our treasury for every $100 debt, and we came to 2018, and each $100 we owed was 72.5 dollars left in the treasury.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0273par0264	That's the opposite.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0271par0265	Where are the thieves? The treasure's door is open. At the end of all of this, there's a summary, a crisis; my prescription is that to overcome crisis and poverty, Turkey's agriculture, animalism, tourism and domestic industry is a 100 per cent development, boosting our internal resources, making the existing ones efficient and efficient. By doing so, we must aim at resetting our imports in every area, because Turkey's territory, despite everything, despite you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Please, if you please, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0274par0269	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0271par0270	Turkey's territory is a very serious treasure. Let's build, let's trust, let's live in peace, let's destroy thieves, let's get our economy, our democracy back on track. I'm going to put my end to my speech as an Izmir MP, with an opening from the Izmir Economic Congress, which was collected in February 1923 by Ataturk. In the Ataturk speech, the Ottoman State's final term says: "Friends rule over personal rule, the will, the will, and the purpose of all subjects. He's the only one on the line. The aims, desires, needs of the nation are far from the issue. And all the people would have left with them whatever they wanted, for the crown-bearers would have considered them to be a messenger from Allah, and there would have surrounded them. They, too, were full of the king's ideas and understanding, and they made the king's will acceptable to all as a holy and a Koran required. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ▪ In the face of these very dark and continuous influences, really one day, all people believed that these desires and wills were like sacred commandments that needed to be done and unconditionally. Of course, the end of a nation that consents to such rule and rule is disastrous. As lawmakers in this great House, we must not allow these disasters, we must not surrender to the outside forces, we owe our children, our women. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0275par0276	In order to speak, İstanbul MP Özgür Karabat. Here you go, Mr. Free.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0276par0279	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the High Council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] As you all know, in 2017, our stock market was 217 billion transactions, but in 2018, it went down to 150 billion dollars. While legal security has been reduced, when the judiciary is not independent, especially when the institutions that should be independent cannot function, can you say that the Turkish Stock Exchange is attractive to investors? As much as Mr. Economy Minister paints pink paintings, that's not the inside of it. Since the beginning of 2018, according to Central Bank data, there have been 2 billion 869 million deposits, the number of foreign investors has reached 62 per cent in numbers, although the number of foreign investors has an 8 per cent in a thousand, as of May 2018, 52 billion dollars have been transferred abroad in the last 13 years as a profit share and share. Dear friends, this account is worth $260 billion when we hit TL. Congressmans, do you know that this number is one-third of the budget we're talking about today? What do we, now, say to the government? We say: "Control the hot money movements flowing through the tax gardens." The government says "No." We say, "No." We say, "Explain these tax gardens, tax the money around here." What's the answer? No. You're yelling at the country, the country! You're giving the poor's child the good news that when he's a martyr, he'll go to heaven...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0277par0283	God will give it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0276par0284	...but you prefer world heavens to your own children. Where are those earthly paradises? Where are those earthly gardens? Congressmans, have you ever heard of the Cayman Islands? Have you heard of the Cayman Islands? There are 200 banks, 95 thousand companies. We have this island among the top 10 countries investing in our stock market. This is a tax paradise, this is a world paradise. Members of the lawmakers, among the most processed firms in our stock markets, unfortunately, like other stock markets, there are no tech companies, IT companies, innovation companies, and that's in the early stages of American stock markets. I told you our stock market has a volume of 150 billion dollars. The company that most of you have in your pockets is worth $1 trillion and $34 billion; Facebook is worth $442 billion. Our stock market, dear friends, does not have as much as an eighth of Apple. We don't have the stock market for a company. We are about a third of Facebook. That's our situation, that's our stock market. We're, we're, we're saying, let's invest in high-velocity areas. Members of parliament, 253,000 people emigrated abroad from Turkey in 2017; 90000 of them are young people with higher education. Do you know how much a highly educated teenager costs the country? $250,000. In this account, we carried out a number between 45 billion and 50 billion dollars last year as exports, dear friends. So, why are they leaving? No work, no merit, no freedom. So, what is it? He's got future anxiety, unemployment, absorption. I just want to say that without the legal state, there's no growth, no economic growth without freedom, no stock market growth. It's the country's decades' worth of brain drainage that's been slipping away from us. We can't expand the economy with an understanding describing prisons as a simple factory. If you heat up the Travel and heat up the selection material, we will not succeed if you separate the Travelers as traitors and others as our young ones. If you have a mind that's afraid of cartoons, you're not a national hero, but you're a cartoon hero, my dear friends. [[From the CHP rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of Bravo (Bravo).]] Fish stink from the top. We talked about the Development Bank arrangement here. Before this arrangement came to parliament, Mr. Minister made a statement, saying, "We will make a new arrangement at the Bank of Development." What was the result? In half an hour, the Bank of Development stock went up 30 billion, 20 billion in half an hour. That's speculatorial, and we have a right to ask: who became rich with this money, dear friends? Whose pockets did it go into? One night we're suddenly entitled to ask who sold money, who got rich, who got rich, with a cash crisis at the People's Bank, a cheap exchange scandal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0278par0291	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0276par0292	And it's our right to say that those who came to power, saying, "Iban Ya Rabb. " We've seen that, too, dear friends, and I'd like to say that. [[Applause from CHP rows]] And we need a change of heart. Dear friends, that change of understanding is a return to the concept of the Bandırma ferry from Istanbul to Samsun.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0279par0295	What the hell?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0280par0296	Come on, come on!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0276par0297	It's changing the flags on your ships, the Maltese flags, the Israeli flags. If you care about this ship as much as we do, start doing what you need to do to save the ship. We're here to save this ship.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0280par0298	You're wrong about Ataturk!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0276par0299	I salute the High Council with love. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0281par0302	You're supposed to be floating it like this!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0282par0303	The order is for Mr. Durmaz, the former member of the Tokat MP. Here you are, Mr. Ancient.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0283par0306	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the highly valued members of our Plan and Budget Commission, our beloved nation following us, have taken a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group for the central management budget of 2019, and I salute you all. [[Applause from CHP rows]] I will begin with a sentence from the opening statement of Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of our country, at the İzmir Economic Congress in 1923. ▪ The economy of a nation that deals directly with its life is also the cause of its downfall. Our time is an age of economics. He has shown us the goal of building this country. Here, at this point, budgets are the basis of our economy. Again, the budget is a citizen's right, the future of the saintly nation, but it's no one's pleasure. Economic development, stability, equal distribution, accountability and welfare budgets must have general principles. So, what kind of budget are we talking about today? We're talking about the budget of the 81 million people living in this country who are not in it, their troubles are ignored; we're talking about contributing to the existing assets of the rich around it; we're talking about funding them with new mega projects, but 81 million citizens of this country and those who come after us -- I'm not saying that you're the ruling party, you're the minority in Parliament -- I'm calling the AK PARK Group. Look, right now...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0284par0310	The ruling party, the ruling party. It's people's decision, and you can't make it. He'll make his decision on March 31st.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0283par0311	Saint nation has made up its mind, you don't have enough majority in Parliament at this time, but we need to say, this country, we all travel on the same ship. We are responsible for handing over this country to generations after us, without accident, without greed, without trouble, peaceful, trusted, established, and waving that golden flag.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0285par0312	That's what we're doing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0283par0313	Here, what do you need for that? That's why, with the colloquialism of all the political parties here, the common understanding is the way out of the crisis, which has been in this country, which you have, in shame, ruled badly for 17 years. So, take care of all the political parties here, not just being close to someone, but putting 81 million in the center of life, you have to think about the villagers in this country, the farmers, the farmers, the small-income, the underprivileged, the kids that you're forcing to be just Internet phenomena. Tomorrow, the children and young men of this country will not remember you with kindness. If we want this country to be in a respectable place in the world, let's do what we say, it's not too late. This budget is based on tax revenues collected from poor people, and there are no smart resources. My predecessor, my speaker friend, just told me that if we can't produce high-end products, if we can't produce them, we're going to have to use these resources correctly, thinking about 81 million and 780,000 square miles, beyond the way this country can transfer their resources to someone else. In this country, you've been blocked by the sugar factories you privatized, the workers you ruined, the other industrial companies, the privatisation revenues you couldn't afford to sell when you needed about 9 million tons of sugar beets in our district, no friends, no friends. And because you can't establish rights, law, justice in this country, the investor doesn't come to our country. Here's the basic way... In this country, when you were flying on April 16th, something flew away, but what? Dollars of people close to you, people you want to make rich, and interest rates that are eating up the world have increased in our country's resources, interest revenues they're exploiting. Here, friends, at the end of the 17 years, I tell the Minister, I tell Mr. President who appointed the Minister, as well as in history, if you read it, the padishahs would declare what they would do, and the people would look at what they would do.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0286par0316	Pack it up, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0283par0317	Thank you. Look, here are some fractions of the Anatolian: What are these people doing in the highest place in line for miles? Friends in line for training and assistance. Again, look, 38 percent of our children are poor. Again, look, farmers' debt has increased by 830 percent. The farmer's debt is $100 billion, friends. The farmer expects you to have diesel without KTV and VAT. And the credit card debt is 32 million. 3 million, 248 people are legally pursuing credit card debt. He owes 400,000 pensioners. Again unemployment is the record of a year and a half, 11.4%. Inflation has increased by 145 per cent in ten years again. Again, 450,000 unassigned teachers expect this budget. Paramedics, engineers, a lot of other people waiting. Yeah, pensioners. Public contractors are expecting a staff.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0286par0320	Pack it up, Mr. Durmez.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0283par0321	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. And minimum wagers expect $2,200 starting at 1/1. The way to give it all is to care about what's in this Parliament except for you, to listen to the sound of 81 million people. And I look at your faces, folks, and no one in this Parliament is happy with what they're doing. Because Parliament can't put in willpower, it can't use it. That's the way we're gonna hold hands. This country is not an inheritance to any of us, if we know it. So the way to move this trust to the next generation, is to spend a penny of this country in a way that's been cleared of its mistakes and learned from what's happened, without making anyone pay for it, without making anyone pay for it, without feeding it, right and deserved it. I salute the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0287par0326	Thank you. Abdulkadir Karaduman Bey, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0288par0330	Mr. President, thank you very much. Last time we spoke, we were on interest. Now, interest actually points to a flow from the poor to the rich. Just as there is a flow of zakat from rich to poor, interest points to a flow from poor to rich, thus means that production, the sweat of the forehead, the labor flows from the poor to the rich. So from here, with movement, it serves to gather wealth in only certain hands, not just amongst everyone, and every system where wealth is collected in certain hands is a system of persecution. Now, the amount of interest in the 2017 budget is $55 billion, 72 billion in the 2018 budget, 2019 in the budget, which is $117 billion in the budget that we're talking about right now. Now, in the budget we're talking about, the amount set for investment spending is $65 billion, which means half of the interest is going to be invested. Therefore, this budget is a restricted budget. The result is that more than 20 percent of our people are now below the hunger limit, and more than 60 percent are below the poverty limit. Thus, the budget will result in the starvation of the Kubra babies in Samsuna, the starvation of the Garam babies in Adana, the closing of the tradesmen's shop, and, as a result, the suicide of a father because he could not buy a dress for his child. If we believe in a book, it says...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0289par0334	Pack it up, Mr. Blackduman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0288par0335	Of course, if we believe in a book, that's what it's all about. This budget is a privatisation budget, so it's not an investment budget. As a result of this budget, you can open the track, open the golf course, open the pools, open parks, open gardens, and even deliver cakes in these parks and gardens, but you have to close the factories. You think you're in power, but you can't really do anything but be the distributor of global capital. Now, recently we went to Kars Sarıkamis. A shoe factory opened in 1976, a shoe factory that literally ran 600 people, was sold in 2004 due to privatisations, and is now in ruins, soldiers are keeping watch inside.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0290par0339	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0288par0340	The most important reason for the opening of this shoe factory is that the Yellowkamis has no sandals on the feet of the Yellowkamis martyrs, but the building is in the middle of a deserted building as a result of the privatisation policies that came in today. And that's why we're saying it over and over again, that's why interest is forbidden. Every day, every day, every day a citizen's sweat is entrusted to this House. This House must take care of this relic. Defending this budget is to defend this budget in its current way, to defend interest, to defend persecution, and to defend the unlawful itself in general. So we're going to stand up to that until the end, and we're going to be expressing the error of this budget everywhere. Of course, when we say that, we call on those with consciences, who don't...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0290par0343	Thank you, Congressman. Hüseyin Shanverdi...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0291par0346	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are today, December 18th, Immigration Day. The main goal of this day, even to celebrate, must be to stop the blood, the tears, the exploitation. Let the people of the sea be ashamed, not of the sea that casts the baby upon its back, but of the people that have washed up on the shore; and let them be ashamed not of war, nor of conflict, nor of want, nor of poverty, but of nations that do not welcome them. Anatolia, which has hosted countless civilizations throughout history, is home to foreigners from 191 different countries today; religion, language, apartheid, without segregation, embraces the victim, and teaches the world about humanity. With the desire and desire to see the days when immigration has ended and everyone returns to their homeland in peace and security, I salute all our immigrant brothers and sisters, and I salute your great delegation. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account C) KAMU IHALE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0292par0383	In the name of his personal rights, Congressman Emine Yavuz Google, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0293par0385	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on the budget of 2019. The budget we're talking about is the first budget of the presidential government system, so it's also historically important. It is also the 17th budget of the EC PARTY. When we look at the recent date, it's a good thing that 17 budgets have been given to the AK PARTY, thanks to our nation's gratitude. As the EC PARTY was established, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that nothing will ever be the same. In fact, this phrase reveals a new vision, a new understanding. The fundamental point of this understanding is to rebuild our bonds in our ancient civilization, which is trying to be destroyed, a understanding that is human-based, not dominated by the nation, but a concept that is the cyclical state-state bonding. Nothing will ever be the same as it used to be. When we set out for a strong Turkey goal, unfortunately, those who used to hope in the past, instead of giving the sovereignty into the hands of the nation, the focus of custody, each time set off different traps, games. Let's remember: the 367 crisis that did not want to allow the people to elect President of the Assembly, the April 27th e-mutation, the Gezi events that were discovered during a time when we had the highest figures in all areas of the economy, the 15th July coup attempt on which tanks were carried out over the nation, when the Council of the nation was bombed. We have exceeded all these traps, the games of our nation, one by one under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, thank God. And from now on, we'll get through the economic attacks together, I hope. Turkey's economy, which grew 7.4 per cent in 2017, continued its trend to grow in the first half of the year 2018. As of 2009, policies on the labour market have resulted in a significant increase in employment and participation in the labour force. When it was necessary to aim for unity in the face of global economic attacks, to strengthen the environment of trust, those who were disastermongers, those who sought profit, were frustrated in their own dark worlds. We have dreamed and fulfilled our dreams, and we have walked with our people in trust and stability, and we have known no power except the will of the people in the human realm, and we have turned our backs on another force, and we have exceeded every difficulty with our nation. Our nation trusts that sincerity. Perhaps this trust, which is not included in economic books, has been the most important driving force of economic development. This budget is a human-focused budget. There's family, there's women, there's disabled, there's old, there's children, there's pension, there's young, there's workers, there's employers, there's people. There is education, health, technology; there is a struggle with terrorism, terrorist organizations, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), NYD (PYD) and YPG (DEP) and DEAŞ, DHKP-C) and all terrorist organizations. Yes, lawmakers, we are strengthening the family. Family support projects, family support centers, and family families. We're empowering her. With zero tolerance for violence, we've changed legislation, we've given training, we've implemented action plans, we've established SUNIMs in 79 provinces. But when we're taking reformal steps in preventing violence against women, to terrorist organizations that take their daughters to the mountain, exploit their daughters, make women, children live bombs, to those who don't make a single sound about violence, I leave it to our nation's discretion. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And finally, most importantly, this budget has been blessed, as has been in the budgets of 16 years. There is a blessing not only on the welfare of the elderly, on the children, on the disabled; on Syria, in Palestine, in Arakan, in Yemen, wherever there is an oppressed person in the world, in listening to their cries, to hope, to be an outsider, to be the voice of silent cries. As our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan put it, as long as we do our best for this country, as long as we work sincerely for this nation, the great Mazela will make our jobs easier, and will pave many different paths for us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0294par0396	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0293par0397	Besides, it's World Immigration Day. He says it's against our traditions and our beliefs and humanity to have a good budget in 2019, when we forget that asylum is the most fundamental right to our country, to the Syrians who have to leave their land and take refuge in our country. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0294par0400	Dear lawmakers now belong to Treasury and Finance Minister Berat Colonelrak. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0295par0403	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your high council and our dear citizens who follow us with love and respect. We are now approaching the end of the work on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Act. In addition to the general macroeconomic outlook today, we will share some of our ministry's activities in 2018 with the central management revenue budget of 2019 and our final account of 2017 and the budget of the ministry and its subsidiaries in 2019. As of today, when we look at the macroeconomic developments on the global scale, I'd like to take you back a little bit. You all know, before 2002, Turkey was a country that was stuck in a climate that was unable to produce solutions with its own economy, which was constantly suffering crises from within a few years of inflation, including high public deficits, high public debt, an unhealthy financial system, and 70 per cent of inflation. In those days, Turkey was a country that could not produce, could not invest and could not attract investments, its income level was low and has a permanent problem with sustainability of public debt. The EC PARTI has been released from this unhealthy economic structure since the beginning of the 2000s, along with broad-framed, timed and targeted policies created in Turkey during our rule, and has moved from the sub-income group to the middle-income group. Look, this transformation has been reflected in the economic indicators, and I'm going to share with you just a few of the ratios. Our economy has grown by 5.7 per cent year-on-year, per capita income has increased by more than 3 times, and since 2005, there have been significant improvements in poverty indicators. Since 2002, exports have increased by more than 4 times the size of exports and have recorded significant distances in exports, restructuring of public finances, seriously reducing public deficits, reducing public debt burdens more than half. The banking sector has developed a healthy structure that provides the best international standards and has contributed significantly to economic growth. This transformation has been cited by many international organisations and platforms, while Turkey has had an active role in guiding the global economy, including one of the donor countries that contributed more to the IMF. With this solid structure, Turkey's economy has overcome the effects of the global financial crisis, which began in 2007 and surrounded the world, with the least cost compared to many developing countries, and has become one of the rare countries in the world that maintains the production structure even during this difficult time. Although ten years have passed, there are many countries in the world who can't recover from the effects of the global crisis and can't rehabilitate their systems. These countries have found a solution by turning to more protectiveness in trade. Today, global trade is far from its former levels because of countries that cannot come up with their own solutions. This can naturally have a negative effect on countries that aim to increase exports, such as Turkey, creating the production structure to move up the global chain of values. As we set our course, we always started building a very powerful system by following very closely the global conditions to be prepared for all the pros and cons. As you all know, our country has faced many deep internal and external shocks that began with travel events in 2003. Not just economics, but also geopolitical risks increased, but our economy has shown a very important resistance. This year, in August, we faced a financial attack aimed directly at our economy. We all know that the values of the markets at that time were not compatible with our country's macro foundations. From day one, all of our institutions and organizations have taken the necessary steps to protect our economy from these attacks by closely monitoring the markets. Under these difficult conditions, we and our public and private sector partners have formed our new Economy Programme, which will change the face of our country in the coming period. Inflation and current focus on permanent recovery in the open, our program will also move us to a much faster point in transitioning to high-velocity production with a detailed plan for production and exports. With the help of our short-term measures and the New Economic Programme, which shapes the middle term, there have been significant positive developments in perceptions and expectations for the Turkish economy in November. As trust indexes are being recovered, financial markets have seen significant improvements, exchange rates have been rated by about 20 per cent compared to the end of August, bond interest has declined by close to 370 points, and risk premiums have improved by more than 200 points. In the third quarter, the Turkish economy grew by 1.6 per cent and thus began to implement the process that we described as the process of decomposition. The slowness of our growth in the short term, however, is in harmony with our sustainable, balanced, and healthy growth goals to ensure a growing economic recovery. As a result, in the first nine months of 2018, a 4.5 per cent growth growth and a growth performance of 2.4 per cent with the contribution of domestic demand has been established at 2.1 per cent. As of September, our employment continues to grow, although some sectors have weakened. The turnout to the labour force has been seasonally corrected at 53.4 per cent, while the unemployment rate has been at 11.3 per cent. So far, we've seen the most positive reflection of the balancing process in the balance of foreign trade and current transactions. As exports and tourism revenues continue to increase, Turkey's economy has overcharged for three months in a row as the domestic demand has slowed. At the end of the year, after the current account deficit, especially in May and June, the figures that have seen about 60 billion dollars will produce a much more successful and powerful performance than the goals we envisioned in the New Economic Programme framework, including these balancing and under $30 billion at the end of the year. Dear lawmakers, the process of improvement in inflation, not only in the current process, has begun in a concrete way. The movement against high inflation and the overall Fighting Programme for Inflation have begun to show its effect. The consumer price reached its peak in October was reduced by 1.4 per cent per month in November, while annual inflation improved by 3.6 points compared to the previous month. This decline in inflation has also affected expectations that are an important indicator of pricing behavior, but we have much more important distances to take ahead. Our ultimate goal -- as I mentioned before -- is to reduce inflation to single digits as soon as permanent, as we talked about in the medium-term program. In the fight against inflation, money and finance have maintained a strong stance in our policies, while in the process, we have begun to implement our solutions step by step by step by putting together a very intense struggle with structural problems. Turkey's economy is a large and powerful economy. We are a very experienced, highly experienced country of power, with a wide range of experience in developing and implementing policy with all public institutions. In this increasingly difficult period of global economic and financial conditions, we will continue to evaluate our economy from a holistic point of view and continue to succeed by tackling the right policies with many challenges that we have faced before, and we will continue to carry our country together, hopefully, in the coming period, to the great and powerful Turkish journey. When we look at our activities, at the point of income policies and practices, we will conduct our income policies in 2019 to support the macroeconomic stabilisation process, provided for the necessary financial space, and also to provide financing needed for public spending in 2020 and 2021, to strengthen socioeconomic development and justice, to promote international competitiveness and to contribute to domestic savings. We've implemented a lot of tax regulations in the past period, within the framework of our basic policy priorities on income policy. In this recent period alone to contribute to economic resilience, we've extended the application of 8 percent of the VAT rate in housing and workplace deliveries to 3 per cent of the landkeeping rate in immovable purchases by the end of the year, and by the end of the year, we've reduced the VAT rate of 18 per cent in furniture to 8 per cent, to 6.7% in white goods. We've given a 15 per cent reduction in CTV rates, which are below 1,600 cc/s of motor volumes, to be implemented by the end of the year, and we've reduced the VAT rate of 18 per cent in commercial vehicles to 1 percent. In recent years, with production industry investments, we can also call for additional support for the innovation and design activities of the AR-Ge, including strengthening the application of discounted institutional tax, along with shortening VAT exceptions and amortism time in new purchases of machinery and equipment. Along with the law proposal that the Plan and Budget Commission has completed its talks, we also envision the implementation of reduced corporate tax on manufacturing industry investments and VAT incentives in 2019. By the end of 2020, we provided each additional employment bonus and tax incentives. We've increased the base of the VAT return that exporters can get, and we've accelerated the VAT extradition process very quickly. We provided tax benefits for female workers to benefit from day care. We've given our taxpayers a 5% discount that pays their taxes regularly. Under these goals, fiscal discipline will continue to be our most important anchor in this period, as it has been in all EC PARTY governments and governments for the next 16 years. In this sense, the year 2019 will be a very effective year, especially when we work to simplify our tax legislation to make our tax system a simpler, more efficient, broader, and fairer structure. Besides, we won't bring in any new exceptions, exemptions, and discounts, unless we have to. We will strengthen our taxpayers' level of tax compliance and speed up the transition to the registered economy. In the framework of an export-based model based and technology-based model with our income policies, we're going to develop our economy's competitiveness by supporting quality investments, added production, employment and export-based growth, and we're going to start seeing its pioneers, its messages, in terms of trade, and it's going to be a year in which this will live even more strongly. In addition to some activities in the field of income policy practices, we move the Customer Services Centre to a much more efficient point, where we bring in a lot of applications that can be done before the taxpayers can be informed about their rights and homework, and we restructure the Centre for Taxes and voluntary integration, and we expand the scope of the Interactive Tax Administration; by going to the tax office, we bring in a lot of information, address change, and so on, without going to the tax office, we bring in a lot of things that can be done without going to the tax office. There are already 46 services available at the Interactive Tax Office, and with the work we're going to do, we're going to expand the scope of the system, allowing our taxpayers to do all their transactions electronically before going to the tax office in the coming hours. According to the World Bank report, Turkey rose 17 steps between 190 countries in the year 2018 to the ranking of 43 degrees in the 60th row compared to the previous year, and was one of the countries making the biggest progress in Turkey's ease for doing business in the report. We're expanding the scope of Interactive Tax Advisor. We create the infrastructure to inform the taxpayers who have earned free jobs, the balance sheet and the business account on the basis of the income tax and the newly employed taxpayers about their tax obligations. We continue to develop the Interactive Tax Advisor's practice to cover other benefits and tax elements. We're making sure that our additive value tax demands of our taxpayers are quickly concluded. We're putting together an intense transformation to ensure that VAT returns can be done quickly and correctly. As a matter of fact, in addition to the services we have done before, we are starting to revive a system that will be extradited without guarantees, as of January 1st, by reducing this process to a short period of ten days according to the initial checks of VAT returns, with the approval report made by sworn financial advisors. We care deeply about the spread of electronic applications. We're now getting 99.8 percent of the tax returns through the e-bench system. As of October 2018, the number of notifications and declarations received in electronics was nearing 90 million. In addition, this year, we've moved the veracity and income tax statements to electronic media. We've also saved substantially in the cost of harmonisation by providing electronic regulation, conservation and evidence of the books and bills that our taxpayers keep in the paper environment, including e-fitters, e-fitters, and so on. As a matter of fact, about 30 million notifications were issued in electronics based on this, and we saved nearly 300 million Turkish liras. We've expanded the scope of the Ready Bezan System. We have enabled the Statement System to declare our taxpayers' income, wages, and other gains and assets. In this context, 1 million 441,000 taxpayers used the Ready Behan System to state their annual income tax in March. We continue to fight effectively with the off-the-books economy. During the time of our governments, we will continue to expand this framework by waging a planned fight to reduce the informal economy, and in this scope, we have implemented the three action plans we've devised in the past period, and we've begun to get the positive results. In Turkey, we reduced the informal economy's GDP rate to about 26.8 per cent in 2002, when it was 32.4 per cent in 2002. We have reduced the unemployment rate from 52.1 per cent in 2002 to 33.9 per cent at the end of 2017, and we will move forward our fight on this issue as part of a new action plan. We've started our efforts to establish a new tax data analysis center. We're setting up a new tax data and risk analysis centre in order to boost the level of integration of the taxpayers, prevent unfair competition against the compatible taxpayers, encourage the registered economy. We're going to build a much more effective tax and control infrastructure by detecting potential risks in taxation by analyzing data sources from different sources of data in this facility, as well as by operational groups and sectors. We've implemented the Book Bezan System. We have implemented the Book Bezan System, which allows the records of the taxpayers, who are doing simple procedures, to be kept electronically, along with those who keep books, according to the business account. In this scope, we aim to keep about 2.1 million in revenues and expense records electronically stored through the portal, and to fill them through user-friendly interfaces. So we started lowering our small-scale taxpayers' tax-adjusted costs. The period of fair, objective, and effective tax control, which will understand all taxpayers under tax control, will be a much stronger period of life. In order to combat the off-book economy and increase the effectiveness of tax reviews, we continue to develop the tax control board's control capacity, strengthening and information processing infrastructure, considering the expertise and the work sector. With the risk analysis system we've created, we're actively fighting tax loss and fugitive. In 2014 and 2018, about 247,000 taxpayers were tax reviews, with nearly $39 billion in tax history being issued as a result of these investigations, and 83 billion fines were fined. In order to ensure complete computer-sponsored conduct of inspection, review, investigation, audit and other processing processes, we have focused on electronic control applications and carried out the Tax Control Board Information System and Tax Control Board Risk Analysis System. In 2018, the Tax Control Board developed the VDK-RAS system, where many developed countries used similar applications, and we moved the total share of tax reviews from the Risk Analysis System to 20 percent tax reviews. We also took important steps at the point of support for farmers, tradesmen, COBI and entrepreneurs. As of November, the low-interest loan balance, which was only used by the Agriculture Bank, reached 46 billion euros, and the low-interest loan balance, which was used by the Agriculture Loan Cooperatives, reached about 5 billion euros. As of November 2018, about 866 thousand producers are benefiting from the application. This support, which began to be given to 205,000 manufacturers in 2004 as $700m in 2018 -- 700 million in 2004 -- rose to 51 billion dollars in balance, and 866 thousand farmers took advantage of it. Due to natural disasters in all Turkey in 2018, low-interest agricultural loans from producers operating -- including the provinces of Hatay and Kilis -- have been delayed for a year, due to terrorist incidents. In addition to the amount of payment due to the use of low interest loans to our farmers, a significant portion of the 2.65 billion-dollar budget, which was divided by $2 billion in November, has been put into the budget of 2019 for an extra $3.4 billion. In 2018, debts to the People's Bank were also postponed for a year by our tradesmen and artists, who operate in Hatay and Kilis and districts and were damaged by terrorist incidents. As of November, the balance of the trade loans used within this scope was $30.9 billion. The number of tradesmen who have benefited from these loans has been 491,000. In this framework, the payment amount of $1.2 billion as of November was used from $1.48 billion. For this purpose, the budget of 2019 is envisioned for $1.88 billion. In this framework, the support, which began to be given at $150,000 in 2002, increased to $30.9 billion in 2018, to 490,000 tradesmen. On the other hand, the new institution law, envisioned to replace the existing institution's law as part of its goals of restructuring the Development Bank in the 2018 Year Programme, 100-day Executive Programme and the New Economic Programme, and the development of capital markets, has been enforced in October, so that development and development of development banking in our country will be supported by the Bank's instruments and the development of capital markets, and further strengthening the financial structure of the bank by expanding its mandates, particularly technology and innovation investments, as well as strategic, innovative and high-level investments and high-level investments in our country, and the development of the end of the bank will be supported by a multi-billion years. When we look at public economic initiatives, it's our primary goal to run the share ownership function in a profitable and efficient way, in accordance with the principles of corporate management of the OSCE. Our goal is to rebuild it in the form of YEP, where productivity will increase and the burdens of public finance will be reduced. To this end, we continue our efforts to promote strategic governance, based on authorization, accountability, transparency, efficiency in decision-making processes, and performance management. As the Treasury and Finance Ministry, we are making capital payments in order to meet the investment and other financing needs of some of the CSIs involved in our portfolio to carry out the operations required by public ownership. In addition, the prices provided to the OSCE are covered by the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget for social, regional and sectoral tasks. The amount of capital transfers to the KİSCE took place in 2017 at $4.4 billion, and was planned to be $6.2 billion in 2018 and $6.9 billion in 2019. It is estimated that the payment of $2.2 billion in 2018 and $1.6 billion in 2019, is estimated to be $2.2 billion in 2018. As the Treasury and Finance Ministry, we also carry out surveillance and collection of deposits and balance revenues from public-owned businesses, enterprises and public-owned banks. And in 2017, a total of 8.9 billion TL revenues and balance revenues were made, and in 2018 it was estimated to be $15.6 billion, and in 2019, $2.8 billion, except for the balance profit. On the other hand, the amount of revenues obtained from KİSCE in 2017 was 869m euros, which was estimated to be $1.3 billion in 2018 and $1.4 billion in 2019. When we look at public finance, we've reduced the level of credit from treasury guaranteed to historically low levels. Treasure guaranteed foreign debt stockpile was made at $13.8 billion by the end of October 2018. At the same time, the amount of credits from treasury guaranteed loans was down to 51.9 per cent in 2002, while at the end of October 2018, it dropped to 1 per cent. The stockpile to buy treasure was made at $19 billion by the end of October 2018. In 2002, the GDP of our country's 72.1 per cent European Union-defined stockpile of European Union-defined general government debt was estimated at 29.2 per cent at the end of the second quarter of 2018. And according to the New Economy Programme, we predict that it will take place in a low-profile path at the end of 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021, respectively, at 31, 28.5%; 28.2% and 27.2%, respectively. Maastricht Criters, a sign of public debt and a precondition for transition to the economic and monetary union within the European Union, are compiled and regularly published in our country under the ministry's budget under the framework of the Maastricht Criterians, which is based on the ESA2010 manual, which determines 60 per cent of the EU-defined debt supply of sovereign debt. According to the Eurostat data of the European Statistical Office Eurostat, the average stock of 28 European Union members is 81 per cent of the GDP as of the second quarter of 2018; with the same methodology, as of the second quarter of 2018, the proportion of our country's GDP produced in ESA2010 is much, much lower. Thanks to our strategic-based debt policy, we have reduced debt supply's sensitivity to interest, currency and liquidity by continuing to manage it very carefully and delicately. A 500-base increase in interest rates increases the stockpile in 2001 by 1.6 points, while the current structure increases only 0.8 points. Again, a two-point reduction in GDP growth increases the debt supply by 1.6 per cent in 2001, while the current structure increases only 0.6 points. Again, by weighting on debt debt, we have made the stockpile stronger against exchange-dry shocks. If the stock structure of 2001 was being maintained, it would increase the loss of 5 per cent of Turkish lira by 1.6 points in debt stock, while the current structure has only scored 0.7 points. And just this, and only this analysis, shows in a very clear, transparent way how solid our public finances and public debt structure have reached. When we look at foreign finance, our country's close ties with the World Bank continue in line with its development goals. So far we have provided long-term, low-interest financing for seven projects and one programme loans totalling $2.6 billion as part of the country's collaborative framework, which frames the fiscal and technical co-operation between the World Bank and our country between the period of 2017 and 2021, which covers its fiscal and 2021 fiscal years. Again, we've provided about $1.1 billion in funding from the World Bank in particular in 2018 for large monthane projects developed in energy, infrastructure and real sectors. The projects will also have a significant impact on our country's economic growth, as it will contribute to our country's economic development and development. Under the Treasury Finance Programme, we provided foreign funding worth $7.7 billion in international capital markets. We've seen how strongly the economic measures we've taken over the course of the past year have been met by international investors, especially after the financial fluctuations that we've been exposed to in October and November, with more than three times the amount of demand for exports of dollars and euro-sex bonds. In parallel with the international role of our country that has been strengthened in this entire framework, Turkey has been one of the world's leading countries in development aid in recent years, and has reached this point by crossing America, Britain, and all the developed countries around the world, compared to the proportion of its annual international aid to the non-national product. In light of all this information, I would again like to welcome you all back to the 2019 Treasury and Finance Ministry budget.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0296par0449	Thank you, Minister. Erzurum MP Muhammad Naci Cinisli against him on behalf of his own. Here you go, Mr. Cinisli. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0297par0454	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, the esteemed MPs, I have made a personal pledge under the budget of 2019. I salute you and our beloved nation. The budget is the means to govern. The budget offer is the management's ideas for economic and political structure. This budget offer, which we discussed, unfortunately, does not offer any solutions to Turkey's structural problems, such as social justice, unemployment, income distribution. I must point out at first that I don't say this with pleasure as an opposition MP. Payments from public-private co-operation projects are not clear in the budget proposal. How were the calculations on the budget load of guarantees based on contracts on recent projects? How was the impact of the 2019 budget calculated, and how much money was put into it? The findings should be in the Court's audit reports, but they're not. I'm afraid our millions of citizens, who have no responsibility, will pay for the cost from here, not the minority that feeds on the economic system you set up. On the dollar base, the foreign debt stock increased from 2002 to 360 per cent, the private sector debt increased 754 per cent, and the public debt increased 218 per cent. We're facing an economic crisis due to private sector debt. Most of the debts from abroad are now very difficult to translate at the appropriate cost. The confidence of foreign investors in the Turkish economy has also been reduced due to the negative political conditions of your understanding of state governance and the way you manage the economy. Unfortunately, while the Turkish economy has been driven into crisis by years of irresponsibly spending its external resource, unfortunately, it still needs an outside source entry to get out of the crisis. Both the wild banking system and the real sector companies must be subjected to a comprehensive recovery process. Dear MPs, please, imagine a country where the president of the state puts himself in charge of an anonymous company. His son-in-law, the treasure minister, has been appointed acting president of the anonymous company. Let us think with good faith that the President has appointed himself and his son-in-law to the Entity Fund because he cannot trust anyone. But I wish the President hadn't allowed us to create an environment that he couldn't trust anyone with, that we could live in a sense of security in social and economic areas. The precious AK PARTY MPs complain about interest while we don't have interest in our spiritual world, and you, on the other hand, exploit this feeling indefinitely for daily politics. Banks get record profits from interest. You allow attractive interest ads on TV, like a chocolate commercial. We don't get consumer loan offers on our phones every day. It's like our people are tempted to borrow money. What I'm telling you is done within the economic system under your control. We call it debting, but it's actually too light for the operation. The future of our people and our country is being mortgaged. Turkish youth are working today in many of the world's tech centers. In particular, our young people in the field of information technology are being transferred by European countries, given citizenship easily. We have to reverse the brain migration in Turkey and become high-tech. It's not about building a luxury college building, it's about mental reform. Let's remove the obstacles to thinking minds. We can't achieve these goals unless we bring about public and economic justice. Let's open the way for our people to have technology-based national brands, global firms. As for the Court reports, according to the Court, the records of the Finance Ministry were not kept realistic, not healthy, were manipulated by input of false information. Why does the Treasury do things that are so wrong and wrong? The Court's report has found that non-inflicted revenues that don't belong to the IRS are in the pictures of the President. In addition, similar problems have been found concerning the Treasury Undersecretary, the SEC, and the BDDK. You're fooling yourself, not us, showing too much bad information and income. We also have a privatisation issue. Dear MPs, it's not privatisation. The Court reports have made some very important assessments regarding the Privatisation Administration's presidency.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0298par0463	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0297par0464	One is that the value assessment results of privatisation procedures are not publicised; another is that the residences in the privatisation programme are not included in the financial tables. Why is such public knowledge hidden? Undervalued privatisations? Yes, as my witness, it's been done. I can give you an example of the sale of the sugar factory of Erzurum, my hometown, along with the alcohol factory that was not run during the AK PARTY, which no one was aware of. The people were destroyed, and one of Erzurum's life vessels was cut off. We can't call it specialization, let's call it transfer of national wealth. In the final analysis, on the financial collapse table the country came from, the heart doesn't want it, but if it's to be borrowed from foreign institutions, I hope we pay for it. I hope, as the late President Süleyman Demirel has warned, this time the debt will not be repaid with money plus political concessions. At the end of my words, Mr. Durmus Yilmaz Sir and İsmail Tatüoğlu, who represent our well-being in the Plan and Budget Commission, which I took advantage of while working on this matter, I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0299par0469	Congressmans, the talks on the eighth round are complete. Now, let's move on to questions-answer procedures. Mr. Hawk...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0300par0472	I'm asking the Secretary of Treasury and Finance: is it technically possible to create a new resource through internal market exchange and debt related to gold? Can this method produce anything other than a transaction between accounts? What do you think of the result of the exchange-based debt raising the demand for foreign currency inside? According to the monthly change of inflation baskets, the medical examiner's examination was considered $18 and the lab fee was $23. Where and how are you compiling these data used to calculate inflation? Is it possible to receive a medical examination, a laboratory service, anywhere in Turkey? How much did Lebanese Oger pledge and how much did he pay for the TELEKOM privatisation? How many deposits has he collected so far? How much credit did the Turkish Republic use from its banks and how much did it pay back? The Central Bank...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0301par0478	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0302par0479	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the economy is in excellent condition, we will not be building debt again. You said. A new configuration will come up after the budget talks. Do you plan to include in this configuration the configuration of individual loans such as unpaid credit cards, consumer credits, mortgages? Our tradesmen have debt to the state, private and commercial bail co-ops that are close to 400 billion. Is there a restructuring of these debts? You're going to make loan delays, reconstructions, by taking 11 per cent interest in our farmers' debt to the Agriculture Bank alone. Will there be a configuration of debts in other banks and Agriculture Loan Cooperatives? Agriculture Credit Co-operatives use part of the need for plasma as a high-interest commercial loan from the Agriculture Bank, thus providing high interest loans to their partners. Do you have an arrangement to convert this loan into a completely low interest agricultural loan, as in the past?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0303par0484	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0304par0485	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister: Mr. Minister, we see that all projects with foreign-source loans have been completed, or almost all of them. However, with the tenders we've made on our own, or the construction-development projects in Turkey, unfortunately, cannot be completed during the tenders, the majority of the projects remain for years. Six firms got files in the tender on the fountain-slapping highway, but unfortunately there's never been a company to bid again. We're always wasting time on this fountain-bolt highway. It's always going to be a retrial, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be done, it's going to be cancelled, it's not going to be offered. Is there a date that you can give to the Mersinites about the Fountain-Strengthen? What kind of solution do you intend to come up with? I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0305par0488	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0306par0489	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, as a treasure, you have begun to export dollars and euro bonds to an individual investor. The state that pays a 7.5 per cent interest in debt with dollars will give its own citizen 4 per cent interest. The president said that for those with foreign currency deposits before, they are no different than terrorists. Now, what do you intend to do by paying us back? Isn't debting against both the understanding of maintaining the value of Turkish money and the decision and decision made by the presidency to fight foreign currency? Another question: Minister, the price of natural gas has not dropped; electricity, food, education, rents, the interest of the Central Bank has not dropped, but inflation has fallen, you say. Well, if inflation really fell, why didn't the pencils I counted fall?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0307par0492	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0308par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, in a resessive economy, the real GDP tends to decline; unemployment increases, wages seriously decline, revenues fall, companies shrink, tax revenues fall, national currency loses value. This is the definition of economic experts. And when we look at all of these definitions, I'm sorry to say that we're looking at the exact concepts of our country. Mr. Secretary, isn't inflation and deflation the result of a recessive economy? According to this information, if you still say there are no crises in our country, what concept would you use to explain the situation we're in? If this isn't called a crisis in economic literature, what is it? Why are we saving money? If the economy is good, why doesn't the minimum wage go up, why doesn't the officer's salary go up, why doesn't the additional 3600 come in? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0309par0497	Mr. Kayishoglu? No. Mr. Aycan...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0310par0499	Thank you, Mr. President. What are the resources obtained through privatisation? Did it help? How is the price of privatisation calculated? The Kahramanmarash Elbistan Sugar Factory, for example, has been privatized for $295 million. The Elbia Sugar Factory, however, has a land of 900,000 square metres, which has been handed over to the Privatisation Administration for 800,000 square metres. Aren't they considered? Do you think the privatisations are worth anything? Do you intend to do privatisation in the form of an IPO instead of a person, or give the facility to the people of that area? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0311par0502	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0312par0503	Thank you, Mr. President. In our history, the administrative, fiscal institution is called abatulmal, the whole of state-owned goods, which is meant to be the property. Hazreti Omar is the first in charge of the Beytülmal, and Bilal-i Abysi is the first in charge. The facilities in the Beytülmal are spent on public and public benefit. In Joseph's case, the relevant verses are for those who are responsible to be appointed. Those who take away the resources of the house are condemned, and they come to judgment with the spoils of the house. He described it as an orphan's right, and when he went into his own private business, he extinguished the state's candle and lit his own special candle. The person who eats the rights of an orphan is not prosperous. The proverb should be an earpiece to all of us. In our time, the people's rights were given to the people and the state and the nation's property, so poverty, tails and crises led to the new and improved Turkey, which the world has coveted. The horse is for the rider, and the sword is for the bearer. Management is the administration of time and cash. Let the crisis crises rub their hands.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0311par0506	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0313par0507	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, the hours of internships in many professions do not count as the start of insurance. That's why hundreds of people are victims. There's a legal distortion here. And I think that's against the principle of equality in the Constitution. When will this distortion be removed? He's not even on the minimum wage poverty line. Retired pensioners are ignored, ignored. Even those in subcontractors were victims, while those in charge of 70 per cent became unemployed. 3600 additional indicators have been forgotten, and the officers are always stalling. These people are constantly in debt because of the shortage of income, trying to earn a living by being in debt. We've asked the Minister of Labor many times, the Home Secretary, and we haven't heard back. The ministers are killed 50 women less." Almost happy, they explained. All this stuff, really, if we told the wall, the wall would crack, but we didn't get any answers. The facts of Turkey are different, but the stories told are different. Once again, I ask your government, is it possible to boil pots for the poor while the allies prosper? How do you reduce electricity, water, gas bills? Are you going to solve these problems or not? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0314par0512	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0315par0513	It is said that 42 acres of the land owned by the Nazilli Sumerbank Basma Factory will become a national garden of the republic's giant projects opened in 1937 by the Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. However, our citizens' main demand for Sumerbank land is the Sumerbank Museum and Sumerian University. Mr. Secretary, is there any study for the establishment of the Sumerbank museum, which contains the design archive and Ataturk relics to be built on factory property? There are already 200 acres of Sumerian Park across the land that is intended to be used as a nation's garden. Hence, the nation's garden is not needed. Do you have any idea that the 42 acres of land in question would be separated from the Sumerian University, which could be combined with the ADÜ Nazili campus? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0316par0516	Mr. Yellowaslan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0317par0517	Mr. President, one of the most affected by the economic crisis in Turkey is the villagers. It is imperative that the debt our villagers received from their agricultural development co-opserative funds be restructured. This restructuring of their debts and debts to banks will comfort our villagers. Also, Minister, when will the foundation of sports facilities intended for Nevşehir be laid down, and when will they be finished? Young people in Nevşehir are seriously demanding this. They have desires? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0316par0519	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission and to the administration. Your time is ten minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0318par0522	Mr. Secretary will answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0319par0523	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, this has been asked by a number of people: why is he making exchanges, gold tenders, Treasure? This is actually a very important and strategic step. I'm about to point out the same thing about the interest charge. In the past few years, only the gold-based bond exports, which our Treasury has established, have revealed that in the last two years, almost 6.5 tons of gold has been brought under the pillow into Turkey's economy, in fact, how accurate we have been as a state, how well we've been doing as a government, how well the unregistered capital has been recorded. Of course, at this point, we have taken a step towards the diversification of more efficient financial resources in the Turkish economy, both with interest and interest-free instruments, which are not directly related to exports to institutions, banks, foreigners, directly under the guarantee of Treasury. This is all a step towards bringing capital into the real economy, especially in terms of exchanges, in terms of gold, especially in different sources in Turkey's economy, and it's very successful. In other words, why is Treasury interest high on strangers and low on these tenders? Now, if we look a little bit -- so we haven't studied a little bit more -- to the rate that the Treasury did exports to citizens in one year, two years, when they're lower, these exports we're talking about are longer, five years, seven years, ten years. The impact on interest can be seen very clearly. But if, in particular, the debt strategy of our Treasury over the past four months, I understand that some financial institutions in these financial markets are a little uncomfortable with our new Treasury strategy. Why is he uncomfortable? Because our primary goal is to reduce the cost of debt from our state's international and national markets, especially in the wavy period. The most beautiful example of this -- in terms of whether it's the best example of what we've predicted in the New Economics Programme in three and a half months, in order to reduce the new debt strategy that we've established as interest costs and the new debt strategy that we've established as Treasury -- TL, dollars, euros -- at the point where it can offer variables -- in order to reduce interest, in order to be the best example of the steps we've set in the new economy programme, in the last four months, in September, October, November, 26,2 billion euros, in order to reduce those costs -- at the end of this rate of an active interest rate, at the end of 23 billion years, at the end of this year, there has been another 2 billion dollars in the next year. Now, more efficient, more active, we're going to implement this financing and debt strategy by effectively running the liquidity needs, revenue resources, both in the domestic market and in the outside market, knowing the opposite side of the table. ▪ The unemployment fund is called the unemployment fund. It's really quite simple. I've answered it before, but he came here today, so let me talk about it very briefly here again. Under the 12th Amendment of Law 4749, public institutions can assess their financial resources, public capitals, public-supported instruments, all kinds of instruments exported to banks within the framework of their decisions and preferences. In this scope, there will be treasure paper, there will be treasury-backed public paper, there will be banks, in this sense, the unemployment fund's management assesses it in the most efficient and efficient way of managing the unemployment fund, and in the last four months, in this sense, all of the transactions under the unemployment fund are legal and more than that, to increase the revenues of the unemployment fund. Other than that, when we look at the tax-related arrangements for debt and organisation in the last three years, as I said in August, they were announced as the last. We've stated that it won't be after this. This is a process that you're talking about, which came to the agenda the other day, to extend the payment by another month, two months, not restructuring. But other than that, we've continued our supports with very important arrangements, restructuring, low interest loans, at the point of construction, to the existing banks, at the point of configuration, at the point of debt to our farmers, and I've expressed some of it in the demeanor -- in the last week alone, but just last week, at the Bank of Agriculture, looking at the point of agriculture, we're going to continue to support the current interest as our government, which is about 30 billion euros per year after July 2019th, by transferring the current interest, by maintaining the substructure of the lowest interest, which is about seven months, eight months, and eight months in this sense. Now, I've been told there's a resection. I've expressed that many times in the Commission. Turkey in 2002 -- minimum wage, net minimum wage, whichever -- was grossly up from 250,000 liras to $2030, net from $1,603 lira from 184 liras to a minimum salary of 770 per cent, in fact up by 94 per cent, and a very serious increase from nearly two times as much as the period before the AK PARTI rule in Turkey. Economically, when we look at it as a recession... now I'm looking at some of our teachers astounded at the literary point. Now, in some literature they're trying to make sanctions, rhetorics, detections, but these positive improvements that we've been experiencing over the last three or five months, there's no resection, so let's give it a Stagflation, no Stagflation, whatever, so let's give it a resection, let's give it this. Someone recently tried to create a new word, and I didn't know it, so I thought I'd look it up in the dictionary, see what happens. In the third quarter, Turkey continued to grow strong and healthy, despite its growth of 11.1 per cent in 2016 -- compared to the third quarter of 2017 -- and its increase in currency, interest increases, inflation increases by 1.6 per cent. In the 2008 global crisis, the currency, inflation, interest attacks, but not four-quarters smaller than Turkey in the third quarter of the global crisis; with the fourth quarter of 2018, employment figures, production continued to grow in balance, and thanks to all of this, it continued in solid steps, safe steps. Now, at all points, Turkey is moving at a certain pace of 2019, where it will demonstrate a healthy and rational growth even more strongly. What do I mean? I just told you. Both internally and externally need domestic market demand, and Turkey has thus far demonstrated its growth, performance. But what did we say in the new era, the new strategy and the New Economics Program? We said balance, discipline and transformation. Especially Turkey... we're having crises in the world, we're having attacks, we're having terrorist incidents, right?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0320par0533	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0319par0534	I'm picking it up. There are events happening in France, happening in China, something's happening in Canada, someone's being arrested, it's happening, it's happening. So we're experiencing global examples of how random things have been in our region in recent years have been. It is when it's in Turkey, when it's in France, when it's in Germany. So the AK PARTY has built a very powerful system for 16 years. So this is a new era, and this is a new era of financial architecture, where a much stronger architecture will be built against all these attacks on the inside and the outside. We're starting to take steps into this. We started taking steps in the capital markets, with instruments like this, with financial institutions, with the Development Bank, with the Bank of Real Estate, with all these institutions, Turkey is a very powerful, quality and employment producer -- because this point is very important, everyone says something, unemployment in Turkey, unemployment -- is an economy that generates new jobs for half to 1 million of our people every year. Despite all that this year, about 600,000, 700,000... I'll tie it up in one last sentence. For the past four years, the transactions are closing, these are closing, these are the problems, here's how much interest is being paid. When we look at all of this, I'll respond with numbers. These are the two questions, Mr. President, the last one. 100,000 trades closed, that's right. But as we look at it, 97,700 tradesmen closed in 2015, but 201,000 new businesses opened, and in total, more than 103 thousand new businesses moved on. Life goes on. Some make money, some lose. There's losing and there's winning. But when we look at the totale and the net, the businesses that are opened are in 2015 more than 100,000 of them that are closed. The number was opened in 2016, 228,871, 101,614 closed, 127,257 online. 2017, 229,367 opened, 96,945 closed, 132.422.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0321par0539	Go to the mall, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0319par0540	In January 2018 and December, as of December 10th, the last figures of the Ministry of Commerce: all this, this, the attack, sank, despite these numbers, 214,133 opened, 96,851 closed; 117,282 nets, and there is a process where life continues. And perhaps the most recent, by highlighting that, Mr. President, I'd like to put an end to my words -- interest. You pay us, you pay us, but the budget rate, but the rate of tax revenues... let's give both of these ratios so our people can see this. Turkey's interest spending in 2002 was 43.2 per cent in the budget, today at 9 per cent in 2018, and about 12 per cent in the 2019 budget. Tax revenues: Do you know what percentage of the tax collected in front of our people in 2002 went to interest? The $85.7 was going to interest. Well, today, that's 2018, 11.7% by the end of this year. That's the same figure in the 2019 budget. Now, when we look at all of this, for 16 years, the AK PARTY in Turkey has ruled this country with a very, very strong authority, despite all the internal and external crises and attacks that our people have experienced. And I, with all my heart, with all my faith, in the presence of the entire Assembly, express to our nation that, just as in the past 16 years, we will rely on us, we will continue to carry out this position in a much more powerful way, with our President's leadership in this cabinet and with our ruling representatives in this life, until 2019 and 2023. I thank you again for your patience, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0322par0544	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0323par0548	Thank you very much. I've asked for a brief word from the minister in his presentation on the platform, trusting your tolerance for the circumstances that have left us unsatisfactory, or rather inconsistencies. For one thing, Mr. Minister, the minister has created a perception that everyone who listens to the Minister thinks that Turkey entered the G20, along with the AK PARTY. I guess our deputies thought so, too. There's no such thing, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0324par0551	No.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0323par0552	Yeah, well, friends, Turkey's been in G20 since 1980. Moreover, in 1998, Turkey was the 15th place, usually expected to fall to the 18th place in the EC PARTY, with an average of 20, 17, 18 bands and 2018. Come on, 2018, Turkey was number 17 in 2017.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0325par0554	Go ahead, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0323par0555	So Turkey, which was taken over by the EC PARTY, was in G20. You've fallen into a cluster. That's one thing I want to say. And, Mr. Secretary, members of lawmakers, I'm going to ask the General Assembly a long-term elective question, and I'm going to end it; people are hungry, I know: which one of the following states is Turkey in? A) Manipulation. B) Turbulence. C) Crisis. D) Neither. Because on October 9th, Mr. President will know how to turn this crisis into a business opportunity. Mr. Secretary, there's no crisis, there's turbulence. Other AK PARTY spokesman for the AK PARTI are calling it manipulation. So I don't think it's right for AK PARTY executives to make fun of people's minds, the nation is suffering from crisis. And finally, Mr. President, we pride ourselves on $10,000 per person on national income. So we brag, we wish we had 20, 40 grand. It's about the distribution of income. Now, $10,000 per person means that a family with a population of four is going into a house of $16,600 a month.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0559	Pack it up, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0323par0560	Make it last. But you all know, Mr. Secretary, that we all know that there are 2 million people in Turkey who make less than minimum wage, 6 million working at minimum wage, that's 8 million; multiply it by 4.3 million, that's £1,500, and where is that $16,600? If so, why don't we? If that's the cat, where's the liver, if that's the liver, where's the cat?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0563	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0327par0565	Mr. President, I won't be long either. There's only a brief paragraph report presented in Duma. I'm going to pass on a very brief paragraph from there: there's no unemployment, but no one can find work. No one's working, but production's increasing. Production's booming, but prices aren't dropping. Soon it'll be cheap, but no one's happy. No one's happy, but everyone's voting for the party. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0568	Three more of our friends want a word. Mr. Turkkan...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0328par0571	In his speech, the minister declared that the OTV had been reset. Despite the reset of the OTV, internal sales in the white item dropped 18 per cent in November. So we've reset the OTV, but the sale of white goods has dropped by 18 percent. The sharp decline in white goods internal sales continued in November, while sales fell by 18 per cent to 472,742. That's what I'm giving you, according to the League of Turkey's White Property Industries. Your budget planning of the year 2019 appears to have increased by 26 per cent in total according to tax revenues of 2018. In total, the budget revenue of 2019, which was planned at $880 billion, 359 million, is taxed at $756 billion, 495 million.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0574	Pick it up, Mr. Turkkan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0328par0575	So the budget for 2018 is scheduled to increase tax revenues by 26 per cent in 2019, with a total increase of 17 per cent compared to the 2017 budget. It turns out that the income depends on production, exports, agriculture, and tax on citizens. It also shows that the burden of the bad economy is on our nation. I wanted to present it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0577	Thank you. Mr. Botanci...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0329par0580	Mr. President, thank you. I also want to thank Mr. Engin Altay, who said no one should mock the people's minds. But without that reminder, our nation has given those who mock their own mind the answer they need throughout the history of democracy.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0326par0583	Yes, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0329par0584	He'll keep giving it to me from now on. I mean, we can all make that reminder, but the democratic system is already built on it. Second: What is our situation? Of course, there are various definitions, but I assure you, Turkey is not in the Eskimo region, but at the end of South America, not at the end of a country, but in a very difficult geography, a country facing challenges, of course, our nation knows how to call it. Thank you. 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account C) KAMU IHALE BUILDING [[Continue]] 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration 1) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account [[Continue]] 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0330par0621	Tamer Osmanakaoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0331par0622	Thank you, Mr. President. Our country faced a traitorous attempt by the PKK's terrorist organization in 2016. We're going through a period when economic arguments are being used to destabilise economic balances in Turkey, which are already sensitive, following the coup attempt, which has been strongly repelled by the conquest and stance of the St. Turkish nation. While serious steps have been taken in some sectors, the problems of the lower income group continue to grow exponentially. It is also known that farmers, workers, and small tradesmen have problems at the point of repayment. Is it on your agenda to delay our citizens' debt or to restructure it in favour of our citizens? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0332par0626	I'm just telling Mr. Bostanci to go on the record. Yes, these people have given you what you really wanted for 16 years, but you've seen so much peace, so much peace, so much food, and a sweater, and you've insulted this nation. He'll teach you a lesson this time, I hope, everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0333par0629	Thank you. Mr. Subas...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0334par0631	Mr. President, thank you. In his statement, the minister said that nearly 95-100,000 businesses were closed each year, but there was no mention of opening around 200,000 businesses in the same year. The fact that 100,000 businesses in question have been closed down is a grave figure. If 200,000 businesses have been opened, they've worked efficiently at the workplace, not the people who have won, but most of them have been opened in search of jobs. I'm not sure I'm comfortable with him taking 100,000 out of 200,000 and turning 100,000 into a favourable form of implementation by the Ministry, that account is a miscalculation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0335par0634	Mr. Ibrahim, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0336par0635	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the Minister a question in the same direction. Because of the heavy rains this year, cotton and corn producers, especially in Şanliurfa, were unable to collect and sell their products. These farmers, who owe money to public banks and private banks, are in dire straits. Are you going to delay the farmer's debts? Will private banks be involved in this? Are you going to save money from loan sharks by making farmers use money for victims? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0337par0639	I'll give you my last word. Murat Chepni...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0338par0641	Thank you, Mayor. I'll give you my opinion on two separate issues. First, we interviewed friends from HAYTAP, and they reiterated their demands regarding the torture of the parrot. Since prosecutors are not authorized, torturers and murderers are not punished. Therefore, violence should enter the Penal Code, and prosecutors should be able to act, and the lower limit should be at least two years so that it cannot be converted into money. Second, Izmir 5. The administrative court has decided to stop İzmir Aliaka for İzdemir Termik Operator. However, the ministry ignored the decision and continued the project with a new, phony CED. Pollution is on the line. The Ministry of Environment and Urbanism must abide by court decisions, listen to the people's demands, not act like an illegal company. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit03spe0339par0646	I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0339par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue negotiations with the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Bill. The commission is in place. I'm now going to read the budgets and final accounts separately and submit them to your votes on the matter of the budgets of public administrations in the eighth round, respectively. I submit to your votes that the Treasury and Finance Ministry be transferred to the budget of 2019, those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. 12) HAZINE AND MALE ACTIVITY 1) Treasury and Finance Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 General TOPLAM 419,857,267,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Treasury and Finance Ministry's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Finance Ministry in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) The Finance Ministry's Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 176,632,557,891,10 Budget Expenses 176,297,976,775,05 Canceled Grant 334,581,116,05 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finance Ministry's final account of central management in 2017 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the chairman of the IRS will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 12.76) RETURN PRESIDENT 1) The Central Management Budget for 2019 was the chairman of the IRS GENEL TOPLAM 3.770.394,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the IRS was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the IRS will be transferred to the chapters of the Central Administration's final account in 2017: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Financing Administration President 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 3.239.195.023.00 Budget Expenses 3.091,677,238,63 Canceled Fund 147,517,784,37 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the IRS presidency were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Public Contraction Agency be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.06) KAMU IHHALE BUILDING 1) Public Contractorship 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 150,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 150,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management Budget of the Public Contractorship was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of the Public Contractorship of 2017 be transferred to the chapters: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) The Public Contractorship of 2017 Central Administration Terminate Account Total allowance 187,480.000.00 Budget Expenses 181,925,624,76 Canceled allowance 5.554.375,24 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 140,000,000.00 Collection 192.071.052,42 Ret and Returns 111,521,70 Net Collection 191,959,530,72 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2017 of the Public Contraction Association have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the President of the Privatisation Administration will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.35) THE PRESIDENT OF PRISON 1) President of the Privatisation Administration 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 37,739.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 36,739000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Privatisation Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Privatisation Administration of 2017 will be transferred to the specific parts of the central management account: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) The Privatisation Administration Chairman's Final Account for the 2017 Central Administration Total allowance 34,162.010.00 Budget Expenses 29.288.492.11 Canceled Fund 4,873,517,89 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 34,184,000.00 Collection 31,793,426,19 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Privatisation Administration presidency of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Office of Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.10) PRODUCTION OF CAMU, MUHASEBE AND EXPERIENCE STANDARTS General TOPLAM 43,499.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 43,499.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Accounting, Accounting and Control Standards Foundation of 2017 will be transferred to the specific accounts of the Central Government account: those who accept... those who do not accept... are accepted. 2) Public Surveillance, Accounting and Control Standards Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 38,725,000.00 Budget Expenses 23.487.048,61 Canceled allowance 15.237.951.39 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 38,725,000.00 Collection 27.149.446.66 Refuge and Returns 20.477.00 Net Collection 27.128.969.66 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Management Accounting and Control Standards Association's final account of 2017 have been approved. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Statistical Institution be transferred to the central management budget in 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 32.75) TECHNIC ACTIVITY 1) Turkey Statistical Institution 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 408.907,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Statistical Agency's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Statistical Institution's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Statistical Institution for Central Management Investigative Account for 2017 Total allowance 387.025.028.23 Budget Expenses 289,655,503,93 Canceled Fund 97.369.524.30 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of Turkey's Statistical Institution's central management account in 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Banking Organization shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.04) THE BUILDING AND EXPERIENCE OF BANCY 1) Banking Editing and Control Agency 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 730,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 730,000,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Banking Organization and Control Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Banking Editing and Investigation Agency in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Banking Editing and Investigation Institution 2017 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 385,000,000.00 Budget Expenses 99.009.738.70 Emancipation Expenses 57,029,91 Canceled Fund 286,047,291,21 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 385,000,000.00 Collection 393,076,051,93 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the Banking Organization and Control Agency were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Departments of the Central Executive Account of the Undersecretary of Treasury shall be transferred into the chapters of the 2017 Central Administration account: Those who don't... Sustained. 07.82) AGREEMENT 1) The Treasury Undersecretary, Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 77,608,260,861,14 Budget Expenses 74,913,975,474.69 Canceled Fund 2,694,285,386,45 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year is 1,127,903,129,82 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The National Executive Account of the Undersecretary of Treasury has been approved in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Capital Market Board be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 42.03) PIECE OF PIANO 1) Capital Market Board 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 285,100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 285.100,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Management budget of the Capital Market Board was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Capital Market Board of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who don't accept... those who don't. 2) The Capital Market Board of 2017 Central Management Final Account Total Payment 292.092,000.00 Budget Expenses 264.659.914.80 Canceled Fund 27,432,085,20 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 127,592,000.00 Collection 267.492.152.33 Ret and Returns 10.218.636.23 Net Collection 257,273,516,10 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the Central Administration account of the Capital Market Board were adopted in 2017. The budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the eighth round were thus approved. I wish them well. Congressmans, the eighth round of talks is complete. Members of parliament, with the completion of talks on the eighth round, talks have been completed with the budget proposal for the 2019 Central Management Budget Law and the 2nd article on the income and financing of the proposal, with budgets and final accounts of public administrations, which include Article 1 of the 2017 Central Management Act. In accordance with the programme, we will now discuss and vote on the provisions of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, respectively. I will re-read the first article on the cost budget of the Central Management Law of 2019, and then submit it to your votes. 2019 ACTIVITY REPUBLICATION Expenses, Arrives, Financing and Balance MADDE 1- (1) Added to Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 10/12/2003, as shown in the tablet marked "A" (a); A) (I) is a total of 949,025,615,000 Turkish liras for public administrations under the general budget. B) (III) private budgetary administrations have 73,771,848,000 Turkish liras, C) (III) has 6,536.982,000 Turkish liras for regulator and auditory institutions on the ruler. The grant is granted. I submit the first article to your votes, along with the ruler, which was previously approved: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. I'm re-reading Article 2 of the income budget. MADDE 2- (1) Influences: As shown in the tablet marked "B," it is added to Law 5018; A) (I) The income of the general budget on the ruler is 867,296,403,000 Turkish liras, B) (II) private budgetary administrations have a total of 74,884.756,000 Turkish liras, including $1179,800,000 in income, 63,704,956,000 in Turkish liras. C) (III) The income of regulator and auditory institutions on the table is 6,420,391.000 Turkish liras, $116,591.000 Turkish liras, totaling $6,536.982,000 Turkish liras. is estimated to be. (2) Financing: The net financing of special budgetary administrations on the table No. 5018 (II), as shown in these laws (F), has been estimated to be 80,250,000 Turkish liras. Now, I'm going to make you read the chapters of the ruler, which is bound to the 2nd article, and I'm going to put them to your separate votes: 01 Tax revenues 853.843.670,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 03 Equipment and Property Profits 34,187,215,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 04 Special Incomes 3,537,487,000 With Donations and Aids All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 05 Other Incomes 60.821.547,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 06 Capital Savings $13,524,426,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 08 Collection 758.442,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Total Budget Profit 966,672,787,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. 09 Ret and Returns (-) 99,376,384,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. net budget revenue 867.296.403,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit the 2nd article to your votes, along with the extra ruler accepted: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. The difference between the sum of the first part of Article 3-1 (a) of Article 1 (a) and the sum of estimated incomes (a) in the first part of Article 2 (a) is met with clear debt. Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0340par0250	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the PARTI Group on Article 3 of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019. I salute you all. At the beginning of my words... one of our ministers in the government made a statement yesterday that he was going to open an agricultural base in Antarctica... and an agricultural and forest minister in Sudan. The Plains of Conium, the Plains of Aksaray, the Plains of Harran, Çukurova, are available. I don't understand why there is a farm in Sudan when we have our own land, when we have unplanted lands. Again, as a science base around Aksaray, Salt Lake, I don't know, Sinop, Mersin, Gaziantep, Aydın, Mugla provinces, I wonder why they're looking for science bases in Antarctica. On the other hand, I strongly condemn the games played on Aksarayspor, the city of my city, which is struggling in the bal league, and I say, please remove your dirty hands from Aksaray. Which of the problems that the Turkish nation yearns and yearns for is the budget we're talking about? Is it a cure for unemployment? Is life a cure for the cost of life? Bribery and corruption?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0341par0256	Just a minute, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we can't hear the preacher, and there's a very serious hum coming from the House, so I invite you to silence. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0342par0259	Is it about education, the injustice of income distribution, democracy and freedom of opinion, wasteful, migration, the expectations of workers, farmers, peasants, miners, truckers, busmen, truckers, what is it about? Tell me, for God's sake, what's this budget for, who's it for? Is unemployment the fate of our young people? Does he become unemployed from all walks of life? I've been a teacher for twenty-five years, and I've been a lawyer together, and I'm from the community, and I'm not from the planter. I have friends, students, parents, clients, without political party distinctions from every level of society. It's the first time I've seen people so desperate, so desperate, so helpless. The young man who graduated from the electronic engineering department of a university in Anatolia has been free for three years. He says that if he doesn't have a man in the state, he has no job, he has a private sector. What's more, architects, environmental engineers, food, agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians, they're all available. I get hundreds of messages a day, and I can't sleep at night from the stories told. A new lawyer in the city has to work for another lawyer with 1,500 lira. Again, the architect has to work for another architect at minimum wage, if they can find him. There are 400 thousand unappointed teachers. Because I'm a teacher, I know their dreams, their dreams, their hopes. Can you tell me what a history teacher can do from now on? Hundreds of thousands of young people in health waiting for work, waiting for food, waiting for a wife. You know when there's no work, there's no wife. They've read with great difficulty, they've added the night to the day, they've scored higher than KPS, but they're running out of hopes and hopes. Patient care technicians... according to Mr. President's statement, more than 500,000 people are being given patient care. In that case, please initiate these patient care technicians. They became physical therapists, emergency medical technicians, dental prosthetics technicians, anesthesiologists and technicians, electronorophysiology, medical secretary and medical secretary. Nearing 100,000, the middle-school graduate nurse read with a guaranteed dream of a job. After junior high school, smart, hardworking children left behind their college dreams, their future dreams, helping their parents, not being a burden to them. They became nurses. Unfortunately, they can't be appointed. With this budget, you killed their dreams. Good luck with that. Is your conscience clear? It's hope and hope that keep you alive. If there's any of this, there's life. Is there anything in this budget that could cure unemployment? If people weren't needed in their fields, why are you opening schools, ending the best years of children's childhood and youth between four walls? After that, there's no need. Open up as many schools as you need, get all the students, get all the graduates you need. Don't take any more students so as not to kill the hopes of these children until the last person is appointed, until the ones who have gathered are employed. Take whatever we need, whoever we need, read them. Don't play with the young's hopes, dreams, dreams, futures, whatever institution, whatever profession you need, whatever profession you need. You're doing the same thing in agriculture. The next thing you know, potatoes, garlic, no one's in the field, no one's looking at your face, and the next year you're looking at the price of onions and potatoes, no one's coming near you. Then can't this be planned in our country where technology is so high up? I don't know what all those precious, precious bureaucrats and technocrats are for. Mr. President, are you aware of the price of life, the fire in the market, the increase in cheese and olives? Not to mention the price of meat the citizen can't buy anymore. Do you know when moms go to market today? He leaves at that time when the market closes or when the market falls apart and the cleaning starts. When she says, "Don't come, my son." She says, "Don't come." I think you know why he said not to come. The other day, a thirteen - year - old boy, WhatsApp, sent a picture of the refrigerator at his house. Maybe it's far away, you can't see it, but there's a pot at the bottom, it's definitely empty, and there's a pickle or a can of sauce on the side. He says: "It's been like this for ten days." My mother is very proud, so don't let her hear it. I'm afraid he'll do something to himself, a cure. I ask his father, if he finds work in construction, he can work. Is this budget of yours the answer to this desperation, this hunger? How can a citizen who has a minimum wage of $1,603 on a pension? Empathize for the sake of God, think about it. And if he doesn't have a roof over his head, it's up to miracles to make ends meet. The tea you made years ago, the bagel account doesn't hold up anymore. No matter how much you do, no tea, no bagel is worth the price. Does this budget end the inequality of revenue distribution? Never. Mr. President, where there is a Muslim, there is no exploitation, there is no distortion of income distribution, there is no injustice... very true. Then this deviant, this injustice must be put to an end at once. If you don't put an end to this, people will end the power of the AK PARTY. Today, one percent of the richest people in Turkey receive 54 per cent of the national income. WHEN the EC PARTY came to power, it was 38 per cent, and today it has risen to 54 per cent, while the remaining 99 per cent receive 46 per cent. So, basically, when we consider it a national income, the bagel eats one person out of 100 people this size. You see, one out of 100 people eat it, and the rest here, and less than half of it, 99 people eat it. This is your justice, this is your budget to correct the distortion of the President's statement? [[A round of applause from the good parties]] WHEN the EC PARTY was in power, the poor were taken from the poor's table, and the vaccine was taken from the poor's table, and moved to the rich's table. The 2019 budget is not fair in this sense, it is crooked and unfair, and it does not eliminate unlawful sharing. According to the data released by TÜİK (TİK), people living in Turkey acquired $2.4 trillion in income between January and September. If this income was divided equally, it would have dropped $30,000 per person, so the family of four would have a income of $120,000 in nine months. I'm asking Mehmet, who still has a black tire on his foot at the foot of Mount Hasan of Aksaray, did you have $120,000 in your pocket in nine months? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Get it together, Congressman. Again, I ask Uncle Ismet, on the banks of Mount Ekecik, in the village of Susadi on the edge, did you have $120,000 in your pocket in nine months? I know it wasn't me. So I'm asking, who gets the money, who gets the money? And unfortunately, I regret to say that today's food has not been as conspicuous in this country as eating left-handed food. Once again, in this country, unfortunately, the rights are as low-profile as eating left-handed food, and I offer you all love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0343par0275	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Kayseri MP Mustafa Baki Ersoy wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0344par0278	Mr. President, I have been given the right to speak on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the 3rd Article of the law proposed by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the debates of the Central Management Budget Law of 2019. I salute our General Assembly and all members of the great Turkish nation watching us on the screen. The budget proposal for 2019 is the first budget of the presidential government system, which is the first budget offered to parliament by the President. The National Movement Party generally favours the central management budget of 2019. The Turkish nation approved the presidential government system with a public vote of the Constitutional Amendment dated April 16, 2017, and elected the first President of the new system in elections of June 24, 2018. A third term in our republic's history has now begun, along with the presidential government system, which took effect on July 9, 2018, when our president was sworn in. The presidential government system is a model of governance in accordance with the state tradition of the Turkish nation's historical mission. The basic attributes of the republic, which is the first four articles of the Constitution, are also indispensable to the new system, such as our national and unitary state structure, Turkish national identity, democratic regime and basic human rights. The presidential government system has made clear the distinction of forces. A structure where legislation, executive and judicial bodies are stronger within themselves, more independent; balance and control mechanisms work more effectively. The budget is a document by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, authorising public funding and distribution of these resources over the next year, which is also an important tool for economic and financial policies and social policies. The fact that the presidential government system is placed on a healthy ground with all its institutions and rules, and that it operates with all the elements of the system, is something that we, as the National Movement Party, have been very sensitive about, and we find important. In this process, it is necessary to address problems that have become chronic with their politicians, NGOs and private sectors, and avoid tensions and polarization, to have national identity, national culture and national presence, to strengthen unity and unity. In this sense, we also consider the application important because the budget of 2019 was the first. Mr. President, it is important to review the SME support and other incentive systems in order for growth speeds to take place in 2019. For example, it is important at this stage to raise incentives to our businesses, which will operate in our manufacturing industry in import input production, and to provide and enhance the support necessary for our businesses that employ domestic machinery parties and machinery. In addition to sectoral-based assessment of investments, it is also important to increase investment opportunities at the level of cities. In this context, I would like to present to our great Council and to its precious representatives, who are my constituency, whose bread I eat, whose water I drink, and who I will never stop fighting for. A permanent and important project must be implemented so that Kayseri will be able to serve our citizens as a viable city for the next 50 years. For years, Kayseri knows his work. We have been patted on the back with logic. So far, dozens of lawmakers, ministers, prime ministers and presidents have released Kayseri, unfortunately not getting a fair share of adequate state investments. I think it's time for something to be done to Kayseri. The name Adeta is a pain in the ass. I'm afraid we don't get the right investments because of such rhetoric. Yes, the Kaiser is confident, and the Kaiser is not intimidated by anything. Kayseri is a brave man, a gentle man. Kayseri is hardworking, honest, assertive. Kayseri has vision. The Kaiser is not satisfied with success, he is not unassailable, he can't be. For him, many great businessmen have come out of Kayseri and challenged the world. Kayseri is a philanthropist. Kayseri is a patriot, and he will not spare any sacrifice for his country. (Applause from MHP rows) History is full of examples. In 1915 Kayseri High School, seniors died for their homeland in Çanakkale, and they failed to graduate that year. However, many politicians who graduated from Kayseri High were unable to invest in Kayseri. We now know about Kayseri's work. It's not going to waste the support of the Kayseri state. We mean it. The Kayseri will reflect even the small morale of our government into production, and give it it its due. From education to health, from health, from agriculture to tourism, from industry to transport, Kayseri (Kaseri) needs investment and state support in many areas. It is in the Ashtepe Kaiseri, where the first commercial documents dating back 6,000 years were brought to light. Again, Kara Mustafa Pasha in İncesu district, Sultan Hani and Karatay caravans were resting places on Silk Road in Bünyan district. In the 13th century, the Seljukian Empire was founded in the Wild Market of Pınarbaşı. Kayseri, however, is not in the business and the industry where he deserves to be. The notorious Kayseri know his business. He knows his business very well, it's true, but at the point we're here today, we're under the number of exports in many provinces. We are negatively affected by the encouragement of Kayseri (Kaseri) in the Second District. The fact that investors who want to invest industrially in new incentive zones are shifting their investments to other regions makes us think as Kayseri. Kayseri is famous for its bacon, pepperoni, dumplings, and oil, but unfortunately, even in sausage sales, our city is almost behind Afyonkarahisar. Kayseri had a huge blessing, such as Mount Ercies, but all the facilities and investments here were made with municipal resources, while all the facilities to Mount Erzurum Palandöken received the necessary state investments. Of course, public investments should also be made to Erzurum, but the same is true in Kadir Hasta Stadium. Because, as everyone knows, Kayseri has written his name in the sports world as the city that built his own stadium. It is inevitable that the districts of Kayseri are among the primary districts in development. There's been no apparent improvement in our districts. In Kayseri, three different landscapes stand out. The first is the city center, the second is the outskirts, and the third is our counties. Development should begin from Saraz, but not only from Saraz, but from Saraz, our heavenly Basbug, Alparslan Türkesh, the ancestor's land, Pınarbaş, Tomarza and Develi, are also deprived of state investments. IPARD agricultural development funds are used in 42 cities in Turkey's agriculture and livestock, while Kayseri is unfortunately not among those cities again. If the Kapuzhead Team Falls, one of the world's largest waterfalls in John, is not open to tourism today, it is because state investments do not exist here. The historical tissue found in Yeşelisar, next to the tourism boom in Cappadocia, has been ignored so far. However, again, the greenhisar apricot is not where it deserves to be, since it lacks state incentives. From the grapes of Finesu, to the honey of Özvatan (Ezvatan), Kayseri (Kaseri) needs state investments. Government investments are expected from the carpet of Bünyan to the Shahruh Bridge of Sarıoglan. The absence of state investments from Felahiye to Akkış to Akkış to Akkış, from Melikgazi to Talas, from Kosinan to Hajir is felt in all our counties. From 2011 to today, the high-speed train project is still waiting in our Kayseri. The airport apron expansion project was designed four and a half years ago, but it's still waiting. As subway work continues in other cities, unfortunately, let alone a city hospital of three or five kilometers, the light rail line has been waiting for a tender for a long time. Dear lawmakers, there must be hope for workers in Kayseri, workers, farmers, pensioners, tradesmen, unemployed, poor people, poor people, fixed incomes; if there is a hope for an industrialist; there must be hope for investment, a hope for production. We Kaisers bind our hopes to our courage and do what is necessary as businessmen in our government's smallest incentives and investments. Look, the VAT rate attracted 8 per cent of the furniture has increased sales by 30 per cent in Kayseri, the capital of furniture. This application must be made permanent, and the furniture will also need to be adjusted to the level of raw material VAT. As the National Movement Party, our sincere hope is to build together a Turkey, where our Kayseri citizens are happy, peaceful, and hopeful, one with the state, country and nation, and one with the future. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish our budget of 2019 was a blessing, and I entrust you all to God. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0345par0298	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. Diyarbakır MP Remziye Tosun is on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group who are seeking to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Tosun. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0346par0303	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we've been talking about the budget of 2019 for a week. What's the budget? It's all the income and expenses predicted to take place at a certain time. On the first day of the budget talks, the Minister made such an entrance to the budget that it was hard not to applaud, but when we started to study it, we found that it wasn't. A budget's income and expenses can be equivalent, but the budget we're talking about doesn't add up because the expenses are no longer affordable by taxes from the poor people's pockets. The house, which lives in the Lale Age, pretends to be unaware of all this, asking the people to make constant sacrifices. Parliament Speaker Mr. Yıldırım, we've opened up a bit in the last few years. Now we're going to stretch our feet." he said. After that, Mr. Colonel said that the waste would be prevented, that the economy would be organised, but just two days ago, there was a tender for 96 luxury cars. When it comes to the palace, no belt tightening, but when it comes to the public, they're asked to tighten it. The budget is open. There is no increase in minimum wage. However, a month's cost of the palace is equal to the monthly salary of 33,500 minimum wage workers. Is that what the public budget is? Today, the budget is not the public, but the budget for war and reign to secure itself for another year. A country's level of development is understood by the budget for education, health, society, development and long-term investments. When we look at our country, inflation is made to look down on official deception, but it's rising day by day, and the people are getting poorer. The main reason for this poverty is because of war policies. The next budget is the clearest evidence of that. When we look at this budget, it is much greater than the budget for weapons, combat training, health, women, and youth under the name of national defence. This budget imposes hunger, poverty, and war on the peoples. Just yesterday, the highest budget was earmarked for education, healthcare. However, when personnel and SGK expenses are removed, in 2019, only 46 million, 462,300 liras were left to the national defense, and in exchange for the purchase of property and service to the national education, only 10 million 38,497 liras were earmarked. So it corresponds to almost one fifth of the budget for educational defence. If the largest share of the budget in a country is divided into the Ministry of Defence, it is called the budget of war, not the public budget. Turkey needs justice, law, freedom, not arms. The budget stands in front of us, not a budget that is enriched by investments, growing and enriching the people, but a budget created by taxes from poor people. So the numbers show a budget where the revenue is low and the expense is too large to close. This budget is the budget of the family company. The country has a family budget, he's the head of the palace, his son-in-law is the head of the training, his son-in-law has the Treasury key, he won't let anyone go, the other groom is the head of the arms industry, and his brother-in-law is in charge of intelligence. That's the state of our country. [[Applause from HDP rows]] I mean, we're here to talk about how we're going to get poorer and how we're going to fight more, how we're going to talk about his budget, but we're not always talking about our language or our social state. You say you have the principle of social understanding, but your policies are not based on the healthy survival of our citizens, but on creating an dependent and needy citizen profile. The help you claim to provide is not for human life, but for social benefits in the chest. We're dealing with a structure that applies war policies to its own people. On the one hand, violence has been inflicted against the people who are out on the street seeking rights, and on the other hand, it continues to fight outside the country. Last week, seven Kurdish civilians were killed, including one of the children, in an attack on Shengal and Mahmur with fighter planes, but the government, like other civilian deaths, did not fail to call them terrorists. Dear friends, DTK Co-Chair and Hakkari MP Leyla Güven, elected by the people's free will and member of this Assembly, is on the 41st day of her hunger strike in Diyarbakır Type E Prison. First of all, I'd like to greet our friend's honorable action. However, a member of the Parliament, who has been on hunger strike for forty-one days in prison, has tried to avoid bringing this matter up as a disgrace to history. This strike, which Layla Güven started in Diyarbakır Prison and was responded to in society, will be on the agenda of Parliament and Turkey, whether she agrees or not. The request of Layla Güven is our demand, the demand of millions who voted for HDP. Instead of discussing it in parliament, however, the ruling party is trying to resolve it with pressure and operations, which is his best known method. Over the past two weeks, our buildings in Mersin, Diyarbakır, Van County have been raided by hundreds of police, and dozens of our friends, county and county administrators, our mothers have been dragged to the ground, beaten and taken into custody. This treatment is not performed at any party in Turkey except HDP; no party has four police and detention vehicles in front of it 24/7. Congressmans, when it comes to them, we have been deceived, God forgive us. As for others, it is in the nature of this power that we are terrorists. Sise Bingöl is 78 years old and resides in Tarsus Prison. You know what his crime is? According to Sise mother's twisted justice system in this country, her crime is to become a terrorist, but we know that Sise Bingol is the only crime of being a Kurdish. Sise's critical patient is unable to remove his body from prison, and there are all the reasons in the doctor's reports that he should be released from prison immediately, but he remains under arrest. Mother Sise must be released immediately. There are hundreds of patients like this in prison. However, reports of severe rights violations, tortures, bans are coming from many prisons, including Elazig, Tarsus, Osmaniye, Şakran. Some prisons have become special centers for systematic torture, reported by lawyers and prisoners. There are numerous political prisoners who have been burned due to disciplinary punishments from the water and these penalties. The Parliament must conduct a life-in-life effort that will immediately provide solutions to these rights violations and victims, which will involve sanctions against torture and torture. And finally, as a painful fact of this country, I want to talk about the treatment of funerals. Forty-two funerals lost their lives in combat and held in morgues and 265 funerals removed from Bitlis cemetery are not given to their families on the grounds that they are not identified. But we have serious information that the funerals at the morgue have been tortured. That is the disgrace of mankind; there is no place for it in any religion, nor in any faith. The DNA matching process of funerals in morgues or orphans' graves has been deliberately slowed, and the process is intended to be transformed into spiritual torture for families. The bodies that have been identified must be given to their families immediately, while those who are not, the process of DNA must be accelerated. If this is the power of a Muslim...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0347par0317	You've forgotten. You forgot the bet. You couldn't read it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0348par0318	Do you have to face the truth?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0349par0319	That's what happens when you don't study the native language.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0350par0320	A government must at least learn to respect the dead if its claim is true. This country needs peace, justice, freedom, and democracy, not more blood and tears. So, let's all build the road to democracy. I salute the board.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0351par0323	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İstanbul MP Yunus Emre wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Emre. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0352par0327	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. I've tried to track budget debates on the Plan Budget Commission plane, on the General Assembly plane, and I've also tried to read the minutes on them in our country, and I've come up with some results in my own way. I think it's very important for these budget debates. I'd like to start by sharing these. Dear friends, we're talking about the budget at a time when we're facing very, very important problems for the separation of forces and democratic functioning in our country. There are some concepts that we often follow here, such as budget rights, audit function, control over the budget. Here's the first thing I'm going to do. I think this is the most important lesson these budget debates have shown us. We're going through a period in our country where Parliament, unfortunately, is no longer a political-making, political-forming body. Perhaps with an optimistic comment, we see that the House is limited to an organ function that is trying to influence the leadership, trying to influence politics. But that's not our experience, dear friends. This is not the basis of the Republic's period in which Turkey needs to modernize Ottomans. Our House is an institution of political legitimacy that has been established as an organ used in the name of the people. I told you the House is no longer an organ that shapes politics, politics, politics. We're actually seeing this during these budget talks. The function of lawmakers on the budget is limited to a validation function, dear friends. The House is in a position of approval, in budget disputes. I would also like to remind you that this adoption was carried out in a very strict state of party discipline and political polarization. So in this context, we all know that our House doesn't actually have the authority to reject the budget, not practically. Even in this case, we're in a situation where the ruling body can actually move on. Dear friends, look, the rope of the pouch is in the hand here, in the hands of the House, but we've abandoned it, it's always been the organ that holds the string of the pouch in Turkey, and we've abandoned it. We are in a time when politics is less effective, the power of governance is increasing. This tension has always existed throughout our history. The tension between politics and management has always existed. Today we have a period in which this tension is being resolved in favor of management. Again, we're going through a period in which people's votes have been chosen, dear friends, to eliminate the influence of politicians, lawmakers, who are sensitive to public suffering, suffering, problems. We're going through a period when the link between the representation function and the management function has been cut off once and for all. He's in charge of the executive force, Mr. President, the ministers he's appointed. And we see that in action here, they have a certain power over the House. Our coven is not going through the way of an institution, a ministry, raising its budget, reducing its budget, making transfers between certain pens, friends, it's not going away. A ministry has done good, has done bad, has done good, has done bad, has done bad; let us reward and punish. Look, I'm from college school membership, and by 2015, the rate of international broadcasting has increased by 5% every year, and there's been a very sharp decline over the last two years, and no one's asked for an account or a question about it. Why do universities go backwards in this country? What does this have to do with the budget? This discussion is not on our agenda, we can replicate these samples. Dear friends, here are the hands of the Ministry of Health competing for approval of the budget. Which one of you, for God's sake, is the one of us, who, for God's sake, is going to go to the state's health care agencies and get treated, and you're kind of competing with each other about who's going to raise their hand the fastest in the Health Department budget?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0353par0336	That's where we're going.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0354par0337	We're going to the public hospital.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0352par0338	Dear friends, you're talking about the budget at work. You can say, "Here's the plan and the budget." The influence of the House is not about discussing the power of Parliament's budget, my friends. Look, in our system, at the very beginning of Tanzimat reforms, in 1839, the institutional system was removed, the accountability system came in, the communities were established in many places, very short-lived. But I'd like to point out that we live in a country that has the experience of talking about income-goers, which is almost 200 years away. Look, in the Middle Ages, in Europe, kings gather their lords. What do we do? Let's see, what about the income-goers? Democracy is a good government, not about talking, dear friends, but about talking. But can we keep control of the budget as Parliament? Balance, are we able to carry out our control mission? That's our responsibility. And I'm sorry to remind you, but you all know that in the world's most violent dictatorships, it's all about budgets. Talking, budgeting doesn't mean it's a democratic process. I'd like to get your attention here. With what can we measure it, how can we measure the power of a coven? We measure the power of the House based on two issues, dear friends. If a Parliament is strong, we measure it with the capacity of its autonomy against the executive body, one. We measure by the autonomy of individual lawmakers, friends, and I'd like to bring to your attention that we are facing a very specific setback in these two situations in Turkey. Now, accountability is a very fundamental principle of our history. We expect him to answer to the administration. There have been governments in Turkey who do not want to answer. Those governments are the phases of military coup d'états, my dear friends. And today, I'm very sorry to say, we're faced with a power that doesn't want to answer. This is today's management practice in Turkey, and unfortunately this landscape reduces us in democracy, in budgeting, in economic performance every day. Unfortunately, this is the view of Turkey. I just told you -- one of the most important functions of the House is to be a bridge, to be a link between the ruler and the ruler. We are facing a period when this function is terminated, where it is intended to be completed. Dear friends, our responsibility is to try to win this back as Congress. Do not consider this merely the responsibility of opposition MPs, MPs from opposition parties. The basis of the management crisis we face in Turkey is actually the issue of legitimacy, dear friends. You might say: "He came by choice."
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0355par0342	What kind of legitimacy? Don't elections happen in this country?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0352par0343	Very good, he came by choice. Look, dear friends, if you understand legitimacy as putting the Ark in front of the public every five years, if you have any other problems, tell them in court.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0355par0345	What do you know about legitimacy? What do we know? What is legitimacy?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0356par0346	Don't answer your position, fellas.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0352par0347	Let me, let me, I'll tell you, all of this has answers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0357par0348	Why don't you guys talk to him?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0356par0349	What are you guys talking about? Here you go, Mr. Orator.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0358par0351	In examples where the presidential system is democratic...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0359par0352	He's talking calmly, there's no point in stressing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0360par0353	He was screaming from there, screaming in the back row.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0359par0354	Unless you want to pay for yesterday. He's talking calmly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0360par0355	There's such a thing as memory.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0361par0356	Congressman...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0362par0357	Sir, are we done? Will you allow me to speak or not? Yes, friends, I'm trying to tell you that if you have a problem with any of the examples where the presidential system is democratic, wait five years later. It's not called that, it comes to the public at intervals. There is a presidential election in the United States of America every four years. However, the election of the House of Representatives, the subcommittee of Congress, the House of Representatives, is renewed every two years. The upper body is the Senate...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0363par0359	One third is renewed. Give me the right information!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0362par0360	You don't know, brother, listen. One third of the Senate is renewed every two years.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0363par0361	All right, I mean, for God's sake! Give me the right information.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0362par0362	Oh, my... ...The House of Representatives is renewed every two years. Many local elections, local elections, state elections.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0364par0365	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0362par0366	In short, the chest comes before the people, and if the people have a complaint, they'll ask if they have a problem. You want a government that doesn't answer to the public so they can't answer. We see it most in the practice of Parliament, my dear friends, we see it in the working hours of the House, we see it in trying to shorten it, we see it in a bag of law initiatives. What's the hurry? You can already make arrangements for management with presidential decrees, but at least don't go in the way of that bag of legislation. Look, this is an act that has taken a huge blow to the House's reputation, so don't do this, it's not good for Turkey. You put a few articles in the bag that the voters would like, but besides, you take Turkey on a very problematic road of law-making, you make a number of changes in many laws by a law, you fill them in the sack, don't do that. We want Congress to be effective, we want Parliament to be strong; we want control to be able to do its function with the right amount of control over the budget; we want it to be able to show its influence on management, its power in the necessary place. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I thank the President again for his understanding, and salute our great House.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0364par0370	Thank you. İstanbul MP Tülay Kaynarca who asked for a personal word on the matter... Here you go, Mr. Boiler. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0365par0375	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the third amendment of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my speech, there have just been statements about legitimacy, and I'd like to say a few words about it. The state of the Republic of Turkey is a state of law, with legitimacy. Sovereignty also belongs to the nation unconditionally. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Dear lawmakers, the budgets of EC PARTY governments are investment and service budgets. So is this period, as is every semester. In 2019, we also care about the private sector's innovative and productive investments, and we're saving $65.1 billion for investments in the budget. In this case, I'd like to present some data on economic growth. Despite the internal and external shocks Turkey has experienced in the past few years, I would also like to point out that, with the influence of financial measures and supports, this effect has provided a 7.4 per cent growth in 2017, with all the effects Turkey has experienced over the past few years. With this growth performance, I'd like to stress the fact that our country is the fastest growing country among the G20 countries. In the first half of 2018, Turkey's economy grew by 6.2 per cent and continued its strong course. The successful and cautious financial policies of the EC PARTY administration also reduced interest costs in the budget. In 2002, only $16 of every $100 tax income will go to interest payments, while in 2019, only $16 will go to interest payments. This is very valuable because the remaining numbers are coming up exports, the remaining numbers, the increase in national revenues, and the investments and services that I have just expressed on behalf of our country, on behalf of our nation. Dear lawmakers, when we came to power, we promised to raise our country above four basic pillars: education, health, justice and safety. It's possible to see our priority in the budget. The largest share in budget distribution is in our education, health and social policies, and since we first arrived in 2002, we see 12 times that in education, and we spend 21 per cent of tax revenues on education. I would also like to point out the number of classrooms, the number of teachers, the number of universities, and the number of university students tied to it. Please, the fact that our number of students has reached 7,600,000 from 1,650,000. In the new era, we will consolidate our energy to the rise of quality. We care deeply about the creation of a system that will satisfy our children's minds and their hearts. Dear lawmakers, we've also increased health care spending for healthy generations, and this year the budget's share is 16.3 per cent. I'd like to point out that in healthcare, the system has completely changed, and there's no one in our country who's currently out of the general health insurance umbrella. So now we have ambulance planes, helicopters, and a new breakthrough in healthcare. City hospitals are coming, and six of them have gone into service, including Istanbul. Dear lawmakers, I'd like to point out the importance of social policy because it's one of the most valuable shares in the budget. We're implementing a social welfare policy that embraces every aspect of society from orphaned children to women, to elderly, to disabled drug addicts, to victims of terrorism, to Roma. Why? Because we see welfare as a means to spread the wealth of our country across the globe. So, with that understanding, we divide the budget of 2019 into six and a half. As a result, we make new investments and services from education to health, from justice to safety, from industry, from agriculture to energy, in all areas. We work day and night to fulfill every promise we make to our nation, and we will continue to work. Dear lawmakers, we've supported investment, production, employment and exports in economic policies we've conducted since 2002. Our country's future and the welfare of our citizens have been first in economic growth and development. I wish to bless the 2019 budget, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0366par0388	Thank you. İstanbul MP Memet Bkent Karataş who asked for a personal word on the matter... Here you go, Mr. Karastone.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0367par0392	Dear President, I have been given the right to speak on behalf of myself on the third article in the meeting of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's General Assembly of the Central Management Budget Proposal of 2019. I salute our General Assembly. Budgets are the building blocks of independence and sovereignty of a state. Budgets need to be prepared and implemented with patience, precision and maturity. On this occasion, I give thanks to my friends who have worked hard for our national unity and independence, who continue to work with maturity during the busy and sensitive period where the 96th budget of the Republic of Turkey is being prepared. Dear MPs, on this stand today, I will tell you of the glorious history of the struggle of our brothers, the Ahiska turkish: the son of Adem. The son of Adem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, Ahiska is a city 15km from the northeast border of Turkey, located today in the territory of Georgia. Until 1829, the fate of this city, which belonged to the Ottoman Empire, was to be changed by the Edirne Agreement, and it was to be dominated by the Tsarial Russia. This was the beginning of years of persecution by the Turks of Ahiska. In the wake of Stalin's decision when the dates showed November 14, 1944, the Turkish villages were surrounded by soldiers, and within a few hours the people gathered in the squares of the village with blasphemy, rifles, and footnotes were brought to the lengths of trucks and railroads. People have been taken on a journey of death that will last for weeks. At Stalin's command, atrocity was committed. Today, nearly 600,000 Turkish Christians long for their homes in various parts of the world. This is a crime of humanity. It is an injustice to the rights of men, or even to men, that they utter. The things that need to be done quickly in terms of the end of this persecution and the solution to problems are these: the degree equations of the Ahıska Turks, who come to Turkey with both residence and free migration, are a major problem for doctors and other trade groups to work in their own sectors. The problem will be resolved once and for all, given its unique equivalences, separated from the NGO's procedure for foreigners in the field of equality. After years of work in the countries where they live, the rights to social security and pensions of the Ahıska Turks, who have come to Turkey with housing migration, if necessary, must be transferred to Turkey, while the rights to social security and pension rights have been removed, and the fixed migration must be maintained. After 1/1/2018, it is necessary to continue giving long-term residence permits to the families of Ahiska Turks who emigrated to our motherland and to our people who live in nine countries. The Republic of Turkey has welcomed and welcomed 3.5 or 4 million Syrians unconditionally.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0368par0402	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0367par0403	However, our family brother, our brother, the Turk of Ahiska, is not being taken care of. The Republic of Turkey is home to 75,000 Ahiska Turks. More than 30,000 Ajussi Turks have been granted citizenship. The process of our brothers and sisters applying to our country must be completed by accelerating. As the late poet Necip Fazil Shorturek said in his poem "Turkish of Sakarya," you are strange in the country of Oz, parya. We also cry from here: our own land and our own land. We're the ones who'll take care of him wherever there's a Turk in the world. I salute the entire Turkish world and the provinces of Turan. As I close my words, I'd like to thank the two ministers from here during the budget negotiations.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0369par0407	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0367par0408	We have made an offer on behalf of our group on the rights of the special sergeant and expert gendarmes in the election declaration of the National Movement Party under the leadership of the Izzet Ulvidirector Sir. Thanks to him, National Defence Minister Hulusi Akar and Interior Minister Süleyman Soylu have promised his support. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, I'd like to welcome our two ministers. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0369par0411	Now we're going to do the QA in five minutes, question five minutes, answer five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0370par0412	Mr. President, we have a request.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0369par0413	I'll give it to you after the question-and-answer. Mr. Eyeball? No. Mr. Sevkin? No. Mr. Orhan? No.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0371par0417	Where there's no minister, Mr. President, there's no point in answering questions. Let's not do the theater for nothing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0369par0418	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0372par0419	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Finance Minister, is one of the most important challenges of the tax inspector's competency exam that takes hours and waits for an ambulance at the door is the interview. In particular, it was the most efficient method of operations within the Finance Ministry, and many people have been eliminated by deliberate and subjective assessments and have been forced to leave their professions. Will there be an arrangement or inspection of the interview? My second question is that our economy is not a comfortable and easy day. Will the implementation of an EV discount for the automotive sector, one of the locomotive sectors, continue after the end of the year? If so, how long will it take? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0373par0423	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0374par0424	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to the Minister: The internal income expertise exam must be taken immediately. The internal expert exam has not been opened, although the finance ministers of six and a half years have promised this side from February 18, 2012, during which the final examination took place. The main thing in the public staff regime is to acquire qualified human resources, develop competencies, make career plans. Therefore, the internal income expertise examination must be opened for employees employed in various agencies of the IRS Administration. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0375par0427	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0376par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. The Turkish economy has grown higher than the developing and developed countries since 2002, led by our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. While fighting inflation, Turkey has been an exemplary country in the process, which has constantly expanded its economy. Our country has doubled its per capita income in the AK PARTI administrations to three. While the global economy is in trouble, there is a Turkey that continues its growth as its environment is in the ring of fire; there is a strong Turkey that has been exposed to a treacherous invasion attempt, which has kept its economy on solid ground even as it continues to fight terror.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0375par0430	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0377par0431	Thank you, Mr. President. There are three forest engineers in our Grand Veteran Assembly; one is Ibrahim Aydın, one is Ali Cumhur Taşkın, and one is our President Celal Adan. I congratulate you, Mr. President, you are our elder, our honor as forest engineers. There are 300 million immigrants in the world today, 65 million displaced, looking for protection. In Syria, 7 million people took refuge in other countries after the civil war, 1 million Syrians lost their lives. Today, we spend three and a half million Syrians, and our civilization never fails to extend its hand to the people who need it. Turkey is also successfully conducting an important process today regarding displaced Syrians who have escaped death. Today is World Immigration Day, and may it bring peace and peace...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0378par0435	Thank you, Ibrahim, for what you said about me. Mr. Tutdere? No. Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0379par0438	I'm asking the Secretary of Treasury and Finance: One: What is the reason for the construction of a service building between the Ministry of Industry and Technology on the road of Eskişehir, and Ankara County Directorate of Environment and Urbanization, according to the Court's report, on pages 5 and 11. Two: Is this valuable property owned by the Public Contraction Agency planned to be combined with the site of the Department of Environment and Urbanization Department building next door and given to private firms by TOKI? If the foundation is being offered another plot further away, where is it? THE government will pay for such burdens, and legal conflicts will arise. Also, the Public Contractorship will continue to rent in the building on the Conium Road for longer...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0380par0442	Time's up. Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0381par0445	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, there was no question about the clause text in the proposal, but I would like to first make a statement on the matter, then share with the General Assembly a few issues concerning budgetary rights and the role of Parliament here. In Article 1 of the Central Management Budget Law, there are expenses and incomes in Article 2 of Article 2. In the second joke of Article 15 of Law 5018, the ruling on how to close the budget deficit should be included in the Central Management Budget Law. The third article includes the decision that the difference between the sum of grants dedicated to public administrations under the general budget and the overall budget revenue total will be met with clear debt. The budget balance is estimated to be 80 million, 616 million liras in 2019, while the GDP deficit in 2019 will be 1.8 per cent. It's not a comparison, but it is estimated that the budget deficit, which was 11.2 per cent in 2002, was reduced to 1.9 per cent in 2018 and 1.8 per cent in the 2019 budget. We also see a significant reduction in the sensitivity of the debt stock, which is covered by interest, currency and liquidity, thanks to a strategic-based debt policy. Mr. President, valued members, as you know, budgetary rights are the reason the Parliaments exist. Parliament allows and allows public revenues to be collected and costs to be made through annual budgets. Through taxes collected by the government and other revenues, the government seizes a significant portion of the national income and restores its resources through public spending to the economy. In this sense, the budget is one of the key tools the government uses to regulate economic and social life. The government's decision to collect and collect what services will be performed with taxes is taken by representatives of democratic systems on behalf of the public. The public discussion of the budget in parliament also allows citizens and civil society to have an opinion on the budget. Parliamentary budget talks, therefore, provide democratic legitimacy to the budget, the basic financial document of the state. The budget rights in representative democracies are being handed over by the public through elections, and parliament has set its limits on the power vested in it, handing over the budget and other financial issues to the government, and the government uses its authority through bureaucracy. In this process, we, Parliament, work with the utmost effort to ensure that both the budget is approved and the budget's rights are effectively used in the process of auditing. I certainly don't think it's right to underestimate or ignore the role that both Parliament and the Commission have taken in this process. If we look at the structure of the Plan and Budget Commission with the new government system, we can say it has a much more democratic structure. Because according to the Old Constitution, the Plan and Budget Commission was defined in the following way, what it said was: the Constitution consists of 40 members. At least 25 are made up of the ruling party. With the new government system, they were separated from our Constitution, and in the new system, they were able to form the Plan and Budget Commission according to the distribution of the parties' seats. Thus, the Commission became a much more democratic structure. The Plan and Budget Commission, which earlier -- however -- appeared to be a member of parliament -- received the power commission's ranking, with the new system, became a much more democratic structure in accordance with the principle of the separation of men. Gene, when we look at the recent processes, new approaches and techniques for the activation of budget control in Turkey and strengthening the role of Parliament in the budget process have been successfully implemented. The most important of reforms in the public financial management system was the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018, which was adopted in 2003 and implemented in 2006 with budget discipline. And with the Law of the Court of Law 6085 adopted in 2010, the area of control has been expanded, and almost all public administrations have been audited, and by budget rights, the nation's control authority has been greatly strengthened. In all, the number of reports sent to parliament was 62 years before 6085, and the number of reports sent to the Parliament from the Court's audits since 2012 has been 1,212.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0382par0454	Pack it up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0381par0455	Thank you. As we look at the audits made by the Court, which was excluded from the reports submitted to parliament, we see that since 2012, the Court has conducted inspections at around 2,500. This, as I said, was revealed by the reform of Law 6085, and almost no institution was left without supervision. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0383par0458	Talks on Article 3 have been completed. I submit the third article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. Mr. Cahit Özkan, you asked for a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0461	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I'd like to file a statement stating that we have not accepted certain issues in the speech of Remziye Tosun's character on behalf of the HDP Group. See, no matter how many of these words are used, our country and our nation will never be accepted: the budget of war and sovereignty.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0385par0464	Right.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0386par0465	It wasn't done?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0466	Moving on...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0387par0468	Pack it up, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0469	Against funerals, there were tortures in morgues...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0388par0471	There are images, images.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0387par0472	Let's hear it, Congressmans, your group vice president wants a word.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0473	...and claimed that it was made unrecognizable and that there were seven civilians murdered in Habur and Sincar. See, the state of the Republic of Turkey is fighting terrorism, fighting PKK/PYD-YPG terrorism, and our fight will continue forever.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0389par0474	You're doing this by raiding the county buildings of our party?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0475	Turkish, Kurdish, Arab, 81 million of our citizens, region and the world's treacherous terrorist organization, the PKK, is fighting the terrorist organization. Look, this PKK terrorist organization -- don't talk about human rights and freedoms -- is the subcontractor of gun barons, oil companies and interest lobby.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0390par0476	Subcontractorship is your job, subcontractorship is your job.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0389par0477	You're in business with them.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0478	Look, there's a terrorist organization out there that will torture our Kurdish citizens, and in the past... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0391par0481	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0482	They're giving us a minute, Mr. President. ... Whatever happened to the Palestinian people came after the seeds of betrayal were planted in that area. They're trying to make the same betrayal by turning Arabs, Kurds and Turks against each other through the PKK terrorist organisation. Of course, there will be an answer shortly, but I would like it to be answered by our friend, who reads that text from the podium rather than from the vice president of the group. On the other hand, I'd like to say a few words about democratic legitimacy, which is very important. Of course, I really appreciate the constructive contribution of Mr. Emre. But there is no good constitution in the world, no ideal constitution. We can't call what's universally ideal for the Filan country an ideal, good constitution for our country. Because the conflict processes of each country, historical, political, socioeconomic conditions are different. At this point, the presidential government system, which is now in force on 16 April 2017, which we have carried out with the approval of our nation, is merely the justice and development system of the Justice and Development Party --EC PARTY -- and the Nationalist Movement Party...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0392par0486	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0384par0487	I am, Mr. President. ... It's not an alliance with the Constitution. As a matter of fact, in this country, he has taken responsibility to serve this country, and he's been targeted by past governments, and they've put up a fight for it. Turgut Özal, Süleyman Demirel, even Bjent Ecevit, Necmettin Erbakan, Alparslan Türkesh Turkey stated that if the political and historical state of the presidency is governed by a powerful government system such as the government system, the country's trust, prosperity, freedom and democracy would be guaranteed. For him, this model of governance was carried out as an order of Turkish political history and common mind and accepted by our nation. I'd like to present it to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0490	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0394par0491	Tell Remziye Tossun to answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0395par0492	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0495	Mr. President, we've been having this situation here for a long time: People's Democratic Party TDK is here, like all parties, the Turkish Language Foundation. You can say it, you can't say it, it's rude to say it, if you don't say it, it'll be like this. He's trying to set it up like this.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0396par0496	You're deflecting.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0497	If this is Parliament, if we've come here as elected Regents... we all know we've come from different ideas, and we've done time for it. So really, actually, I'd like to make an adjustment in that sense, so let's get down to it, everybody really express their own thoughts, no one shuts anyone's mouth. That's why in this country, since 2002 -- I told you in my speech yesterday -- 6,456 people have died.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0396par0499	Freedom doesn't mean cursing everyone, it's not freedom.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0397par0500	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0501	If so many people are dead in this country, and still the defense budget, if the Internal Affairs budget is being raised, at most, then we call it the war budget, and no one can shut us up in that sense, it's nobody's business.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0396par0502	Is fighting Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) a war budget?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0398par0503	Speak up, and you'll tell me what you think.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0504	We know who we tell and who we tell. If you want to talk to PKK, go talk to them, don't talk to us. If there is a HDP in this parliament, you will speak to HDP, HDP will answer you. You're the one who pretended to be a friend of the Palestinian people, and then you're the one who constantly pressured the Palestinians, and you're the one who committed persecution and injustice, and you're the one who raised the trade of $1.4 billion in 2002 to $5 billion in 2017. Don't castrate here, not through the dead, not through the living. If you really want to talk about budgets, or if you want to express your own thoughts, do so.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0399par0507	Pick it up, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0393par0508	It's over, Mr. President. It's not true, it's not true. We can say, we can react differently from here, from where we are, but you can't say it, you can't say it. We don't have a style, we don't have an attitude. We don't have to hear that from anyone. Please don't make us say this every time. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0400par0512	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0401par0515	While I'm sitting, I stand up because my diaphragm doesn't work. Now, I don't say, "Why is the people talking?" I say, "Let's talk until morning." But, of course, we don't like many of them, considering that we're five groups here, including non-group parties, of the speakers, of those who are willing to stand on the stand, of those who are willing to do what they say in Parliament. Today, Mr. Minister has said some very contrary things to the facts of Turkey from above, and he has lied. It would be rude to say that he lied. But I'll sit down and go into the system and say it again for ten minutes, and I'm not saying that that's what the Minister said, and that's what he said. Now, let's start with the new system. This system, which we don't want, which we miss, which ignores the separation of forces -- regardless of what its name is -- does not benefit democracy, but this new system also has a feature of this AK PARTY, non-systems and irregularity -- and if you're looking for a party that doesn't understand and doesn't fit at all, it's the AK PARTY in the House. I thought it was the new system, the legislation was separate, the execution was completely outside? What is this? Like what? Is there a bag of laws in a system like this? 3 MPs, 5 MPs, 122 articles that have changed 20 different laws... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. Altay. ...that is not an offer of the law, given by the free will of the law. This is a bag of laws issued to Parliament by the executive and executive order, signed by the ruling party. The bag could be a bill of law. The government says: I need this, this, this. But what kind of talent is this that a congressman offers a 122-point bag of law on 20 different laws? This is the most contrary to the spirit of the new system. In a painting like this, you can't sell this system as a new system. The name of this system is a legal system of conduct. It's a legislature that's bound to run. Now, on the other hand, members of lawmakers, Mr. Erdogan is your president, I can't say... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the president, the head of the state's indivisible unity, integrity, and representation. It's also the chosen head of running the new system now. We have already criticised the President-elect to run the state with a separate ballot, apart from the EC PARTY of the administration -- the President's Court of Presidents is in the wrong practice here, and you can't make any promises according to the Interior Charter 69. You've got to open and read 69. I'm not saying he didn't read it. A review of our EC PARTY President Erdogan is promised, but what part of 69 will you promise a minister regarding the actions of a President? You can't. It's part of the job. You, of course, understand that...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0402par0526	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0401par0527	Let's wrap this up, Mr. President. You can say, "Long live my king. " Long live my king. You have the freedom to say. From this point on, this side has the freedom to say, "God is greater than you." (HPP, HDP and GOOD PARTY) You will accept this. We'll start here. On the other hand, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0403par0529	Muharrem Slim isn't coming.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0401par0530	A brave man takes his word, says it like a man.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0403par0531	I'll talk too.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0401par0532	Talk, come on.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0403par0533	But I did say something nice.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0401par0534	There are 142 Muharrem Tünces at the Republican People's Party, don't worry, there are 142 Muharrem Tünces! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, this is how I end it, Mr. Yunus has also referred to the speech of Emre. Mr. Cahit. If democracy is running in a country, Parliament is respectable, and if democracy is not working in a country, I regret to say, in a parliament where I am a member, I think Parliament's reputation is stable. I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0404par0539	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0405par0540	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0404par0541	Here you go, Mr. Özkan. Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0405par0544	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll stand up. Now, a good parliamentarian can't be trapped in such a small world where he can't live with his own thoughts.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0406par0546	How long have you been a parliamentarian?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0405par0547	A good parliamentarian goes, in civil society, in vocational rooms, in associations, in foundations, in unions, among citizens, you know, you'd like to, you know, make a law proposal based on a pluralist, liberal, participating democracy. Oh, if this bill concerns any other law, it'll put it in a single law proposal and bring it back to Parliament. Oh, sir, if there's a demand in society about the issues of the ministers outside the civil society, we're among the citizens, the workers, the peasants, the farmers. (CHP and Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) We, like, do politics among our citizens, not in the Fashions, but in Etimis.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0407par0549	Pack it up, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0405par0550	So, by making the demands that come to us among our citizens a law proposition, here we are turning them into legislation in the Parliament where you are. Yes, there's a separation of forces. What language should I speak? The separation of forces. [Applause from the AK PARTY; CHP and GOOD PARTY rankings (OOOOO) voices, applause!) Oh, yeah, the separation of forces. Why did Mr. Minister come? If he doesn't come, then why did he come? For him, the separation of forces is not to live, to walk, to execute the balance-testing mechanism of the judges; but he lost his steering, his route, sir, his rotu, his balancing car. I mean, it's the constitutional model that takes care of each other and serves the citizens, the administration, the law and the judiciary, and that's what we're after.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0407par0552	Okay, thank you. Now I'm going to read the 4th article: Decisions relating to Budget Order and Application MADDE 4- (1) The rules of this Law have been shown below: a) The distribution of grants given by article 1 [[A]] B) revenues to continue to collect according to legislation related to public administrations under central administration [[B]] C) Basic provisions based on the income of public administrations under central administration [[C]] ) Baseds on the use and expenditure of some funds [[E]] D) Adds to Law 5018 (II) and (III) estimates that the management and institutions, which are included in the ruler (III), will be used by the means of cash. [[F]] e) daily and compensation in accordance with Article 10/2/1954 and Article 6245 [[H]] f) Financial limits in the budget law according to various laws and decrees [[I]] g) In addition classes, conferences and overwork fees and the sums of other fees [[K]] đ) Boarding fees from students of the school boards run by the Ministry of National Education, dated 11/8/ 1982 and under Article 3 of the National Education Ministry's Boarding Code 2698 [[M]] H) The purchase value of animals, dated 7/6/1939, and under National Defense Responsibility Act 3634, will be taken through national defense. [[He']] I) Under Law 3634, the average purchases of motor vehicles via the national defense contract and the daily rent costs [[P]] i) The type of transports available to public administrations in Tables (II) and (III) are available in the year's course of service, the type of vehicles available to them, and the price of purchases of vehicles that are subject to car 5/1/1961 and subsidiaries that are subject to Car Law 237 during the year. [[T]] j) Home service monthlys bound by laws and decrees [[V]] Aksaray MP Ayhan Erel. Here you are, Mr. Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0408par0592	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the High Turkish nation, the esteemed MPs, on the 4th Article of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal, on behalf of the PARTI. I salute you all. Rahim Cavadbeyli, some of you have a question in your eyes like who is it? He's a refugee under the protection of the United Nations. He is an important leader of Iranian Turks who advocates democracy and human rights. After being detained without any information or grounds, four days of waiting were placed at Van Kurubaşı Responsors' Camp. Brother, in this unexpected situation in Turkey, thousands of Turks on the streets of Tebriz said, "Let there be Azerbaijan, let there be freedom." They reacted on foot with slogans. Why does the Turkish government, which is sensitive to human rights violations in Syria, Iraq, Somalia, Myanmar, Palestine, withhold the same sensitivity from Rahim Cavadbeyli? When millions of Syrian asylum seekers are granted rights that our citizens don't even have, the basic human rights are denied from Cavadbeyli, is it because of his Turkishness? Rahim Cavadbeyli, held in a refugee camp against human rights, must be released immediately. Hail Rahim Cavadbeyli, peace be on the streets of Tebriz, peace be upon Rahim Bey. Hail to the thousands of Turkish brothers who walk by their slogans. If you think you can help your brother, not my blood brother, then your brother East Turkistan is crying blood. No, if you think you can help your brother, not my brother, your blood brother, East Turkistan, he's crying blood. Every breath he took in his 90-year-old life, before the invasion of Red China for East Turkistan 1944-1949, the President of East Turkia, and the man of trial and struggle, Jesus Joseph Alptekin Bey, I remember with mercy and gratitude on the anniversary of his death. Mr. President, good lawmakers, as we've already stated, this budget is not going to help the poor, the poor, the peasant, anyone who's having a hard time making a living. From almost the ninth month, an employee who has received a fee of $2,000, the increase in taxes he has paid since his tax rate has changed, has been reduced. The money from the employee's salary may be as big as the tip someone left at the diner, but for the employee, that's bread, water, milk for the child. There is absolutely no tax for the justice tax system from the minimum wage, and no tax should be taken from the minimum wage of other employees. It is unfair, shameful, and a pity to receive taxes from a minimum wage that does not exceed the hunger limit of 1,943 TL. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, as for the debt of allies and friendly contractors, the government that forgets the economic war is sticking to the bond of the young man who can't pay his student loans because he can't find a job. We call upon the party called Justice - be your name, be fair. If you're being fair, erase the debt these young people owe you, the poor man's Social Security Agency, the debt he owes you. Look, local elections are coming up, and it looks like a lot of the mayors from AK PARTY are going to get their seats. You hired them, but our brothers, our children, our children work in municipalities, 4/B. Their fate is between the lips of the next mayor. Does this budget put an end to the suffering of 4/B chartered staff working in municipalities and other public institutions, the fearful dream? Our disabled citizens are in trouble. If a sitter is paid, no disability allowance is paid, no child care allowance is paid. I think we need to put an end to this nonsense. Again, we need a budget that will soon implement measures and regulations for their employment. By the way, one of the previous speakers thanked the Home Secretary and the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, and I hope that's the same sensitivity, because we have to give our heroes, our corporals, staffs, who have dedicated their entire existence to the country, who have told us that without the tomb, we can't laugh at the enemy without their blood, their colors, their lives, their lives, their lives, their youth, their love, their dreams, their entire existence. Young people with no uncles, no uncles, even though they finished college are now out of the house before their parents wake up and their parents go to sleep. It's become a bizarro now that I'm asking them for an allowance. Didn't it occur to the people who made this budget to pay a citizen's salary until at least this young unemployed man got a job? How do thousands of citizens say yes in conscience to this budget, which is insensitive to their demands to consider the lengths spent in apprentice schools insured? How can we say yes to a budget where the insurance premiums of our Mehmetites were not invested by the state during the military? How can we say yes to this budget, which you promised in the squares, which, in turn, does not raise the additional indicators of all public employees to 3,600? Again, why don't we hire our cooks, our IT processors, our drivers, who work as subcontractors in hospitals, public institutions with a 70 per cent criteria for a ridiculous reason that you promised? A cleaning worker who worked at the same place, who worked at the hospital, who worked alongside him for years, unfortunately, a friend of ours in the kitchen didn't make it to the staff. Mr. President, again, there are workers in the public who are referred to as "joker subcontractors." Stop the victims of these people who were not recruited on December 4th because they weren't on the job. And then there's EYT, early retirementers, you say 750 thousand people, not at all, please excuse me. Go to the working friends, to those who live at this age, for God's sake, a friend with a high salary doesn't want to retire anyway. Why would a man who bought 5,000 liras and six thousand lira retire? A friend who wants to retire, who's paid 1,500 lira, £1,600. You know why he wants to retire? He's going to retire, he's going to get 1,600 lira, he's going to get a job right after that, he's going to get a thousand lira, he's going to buy pants for his kids, maybe a pound for his kids. Lawmakers of the ruling party, please note this as you evaluate the EIT. Otherwise, there's nothing wrong with people who are well-paid, friends who are well-paid, friends who have problems, people who have low wages. When he retires, he will go on vacation to Alania, and they will not be able to travel to Germany. The farmer's got a problem, he's got a problem with livestock, but as far as I can tell, time's running out. Now, our power is opening its mouth. It says, "We're local and we're national." There are a lot of investments or businesses that don't fit that phrase. One of them, the TKSAT 1B satellite, disappeared into space. They put an ad in the paper. Those of you who have seen the TurkishSAT 1B satellite, those who know it, inform the ground for God's sake. There is no TurkishSAT 1B satellite that you've launched into space. So the Turkish nation's money is gone. Again, you say 100 percent domestic satellite. We don't know how local it is. The balance module is British, the optical system is South Korea, the reaction wheels are American, the magnetic torque rods are German, the impulse system is Israeli, the vibration test is French, the Chinese have launched, it's national. Tell me, there's nothing national but the name of KKÜRK. It's just a national name. Again, the ferry you named after our President, the ferry you took, came from Norway. The whistle the conductors played on the railways is Chinese. You buy sheep from New Zealand, you buy cows from Ukraine, you bring meat from Serbia, you buy agriculture from many countries of the world, we buy hay. You didn't leave anything local or national, but it's the opposite of what you're saying.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0409par0610	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0408par0611	Again, a decision was issued regarding the Environmental Law to remove 25 cents from the person in the bag. I wish we'd gotten the bag back from the citizen for 25 cents instead of selling it to the citizen, and hopefully, it would have served the law more. I'm not in the habit of teasing you, but I'm not going to pass on the subject.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0410par0613	We don't care about you at all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0408par0614	Thanks.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0410par0615	Because you're talking nonsense.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0408par0616	I wish that this budget, which helped freeze the palm trees in the palace garden, had contributed to Aksaray.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0411par0618	Thank you, Mr. Erel. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Yozgat MP İbrahim Ethem Sedef. Here you go, Mr. Sedef. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0412par0623	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party on the basis of the 2019 Central Management Budget Act. I salute your esteemed delegation and the mighty Turkish nation. Honourable MPs approved the major Turkish presidency government system by voting for the public on 16 April 2017. Along with the presidential government system, our country has begun a new era, yet its evil centers have begun to perform global plays, not being idle. In the face of problems reaching the level of Beka, the National Movement Party knew to break the game by putting its body under the stone, not the hand. Our party believed in the need to do politics without polarizing, undiscriminating, infertile conflict that would affect our nation in a negative way. In talks at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the site of the will of the St. Turkish nation, we also approach our country's problems with constructive opposition. We haven't turned any issues of public interest into abuse materials, we've seen the facts, we've looked at matters with a measure of fairness. We have expressed our views on the 2019 budget proposal with that understanding, and we continue to bring it to you. As the National Movement Party, I would like to point out that we generally consider the central management budget of 2019, but we will have our views on budget pencils and institutional budgets, constructive criticisms and proposals. The budget proposal appears to be in line with the goals set out in the New Economic Programme, covering the period 2019-2021. In this part of the talk, I'd like to talk about some of the content of some of the budget-related ruler. Mr. President, our National Ministry of Education has changed seven ministers in 16 years -- which has been criticised for a long time -- and, depending on this, has often changed systems, and has been an institution where expectations have increased with our last Minister. As the National Movement Party, we think the biggest problem in national education is the condition of our teachers. The teacher's deficit undermines the quality of the educational system in Turkey. The ministry has an opening for nearly 11 per cent norm staff, Mr. Minister announced in its budget presentation. The lack of teachers and non-assigned teachers -- one of the biggest problems of the Turkish national educational system -- is thought of in terms of the outcome of our education system. The contract must be made to ensure that all non-assigned teachers are gradually appointed. The contract teacher application, which was lifted in 2011, has been reinstated. The reboot of this could lead to a repeat of past victims. Contracted teaching is an unsecured system. Compromising the need for teachers in the primary areas of development, which is intended for employment by contracting teachers, instead of employment by contracting teachers, can be attractive to working in these areas by means of economic incentives and so on. In the same teachers' room, there are different teachers whose rights are created. This method has been tried in the past and has been abandoned on the grounds that it has not been produced. Therefore, the contract teacher must be given up his employment. Our teachers in the Ministry of National Education are paid an additional tuition fee for their class hours and their watch, except for their salary. Although the teacher's salaries were paid by the time of the lecture, the additional course was adapted and limited to a fixed time. I think that there should be some flexibility in this, at least a little more support for the extra tuition fees of our teachers who can't get what they're doing. Dear lawmakers, another issue is the appointment of agricultural engineer, veterinary physician and food engineers. We can't just look at the employment of these people as a problem of unemployment and employment. It also reveals the government's approach to food safety. Our young ones have been trained to improve food safety and to allow the production of healthier products to be consumed. We are doing our duty, Mr. Ahmet Assref Fakibaba, the Minister of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, regarding these engineerings, which are of great importance to improve quality in education. On February 9, 2018, we wrote to organizations for the employment of agricultural engineers, veterinary physicians and food engineers to join the family of 10,551 people in the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism. If we're saying something, it's true. The continuity of the state is essential. There is for the nation of the state. After this announcement, the expected engineer brothers and sisters are waiting for concrete steps. Precious MPs, another thing I want to talk to you about is agriculture. The biggest problem in agriculture that almost everyone complains about is high input costs. The farmer who's losing more and more, when he can't keep up with the price of input, he's running away from production. Therefore, while Turkey imports many agricultural products, our land remains empty. Production costs are rising due to large prices of input in agricultural production, and the Turkish farmer cannot compete with foreign producers. We must support our farmer, stop our villages from coming. In my constituency, Yozgat, we also experience this situation alive. Our villages are coming, and the only way to stop this migration to city centers and major cities is to reduce high input costs in agriculture. Is it possible that instead of providing fuel support for our farmer, the diesel used in agriculture should be exempted from special consumption tax? We think that the exclusion of the mazot used in agriculture from the special consumption tax will contribute more to our farmers than the existing diesel support. The main inputs of production in reducing production costs must be removed from the tax burden on diesel, fertilizer, medicine, seedlings, seedlings, seedlings, plant, bait and agricultural electricity, and continue by increasing agricultural support. Dear President, I'd like to address the subject of the purchase and rental of vehicles in public institutions at the end of the speech. Last year, the Ministry of Development published a report titled the Transport Fleet Management at Public Institutions. The report is remarkable to show the state of vehicles in public institutions. It is clear that we have passed many developed countries in the number of official vehicles owned by public institutions. According to the latest data, Turkey has nearly 1 15,000 public vehicles, while France has 2,000 in the amount and Italy has 29,000 in the amount. At the point of overcoming our economic problems, it is a proper and correct decision to reduce public vehicles as part of the austerity measures that our state has taken on the agenda. Austerity measures must be implemented immediately, and this official vehicle madness in the public must be stopped. In addition, another issue regarding vehicles in public institutions is the application of rental vehicles. Part of the tools used in public institutions are assigned to institutions by the way they rent. For good reason, luxury means have more than maximum purchase costs. However, accounts on rental costs of rental vehicles, which are said to be above the maximum purchase price, are known to pay over the market value of these vehicles. Officials have announced that 13.558 vehicles were rented in 2017. In contrast with our sense of savings, this does not correspond with the right use of public resources. I'd like to remind you of a certain matter. There are demands coming in on this issue for our fellow lawmakers. Our police department is expecting 3,600 additional indicators. He expects to be resolved as soon as possible. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0413par0639	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Diyarbakır MP Semra Güzel wants to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Nice. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0414par0643	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, in my speech today, I'm going to say something to you to get to know our Haqkari MP, Leyla Güven, who has been away from us and has been on hunger strike for forty-one days for the removal of Imran's isolation. I know you've been hearing the same name for days. But your conscience and political sensibilities are so dull you don't want to listen. Despite your persistent disregard, Layla is a woman who has paid far more for the peace struggle in this land than most of the MPs sitting at this time, who has worked hard and fought hard, and continues to fight as a member of this Assembly, not here, but in prison. Dear MPs are born and are now 54 years old in the district of Jahanbeyli, Leyla Güven Konya. As a reality of this country, she was forced to marry at the age of 17, the mother of two children. After living in Germany for a while, he returned to Turkey and began working in the Konya organization of HadEP, 1994. In 2001, he sold all his household goods and came to the party headquarters with his suitcase and said he only wanted to be in the party work. While working in women's arms in the Çukurova region, Adana Seyhan was elected mayor of the municipality of Küçükdikili in the 2004 local elections, and Urbana Viranşehir in the 2009 local elections. In 2009, he was detained, arrested and served four and a half years in prison as part of TK operations. Let's also remind you that it turns out that the people who did the ACK operations and the people who filed the file were the ones who did it. The judge and prosecutor of the case have been arrested with operations, and yet there are still trials on the files. He was elected MP in the June 7, 2015. He was elected co-chair of the Democratic Society Congress, which you insisted on illegalizing in 2016. On January 24, 2018, he was arrested for the second time and taken to Diyarbakır Prison. During the same year, he was elected Hakkari MP in the June 24, 2018 elections and was not released with a full political decision and is still held in prison as a political hostage. Look, you know why I'm telling you all this? If you have any sense of shame left, you should be ashamed.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0415par0647	What shame? Please...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0414par0648	Fifty-four years of your life.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0415par0649	What are you talking about? What language are you speaking? What shame?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0416par0650	Can you please speak in a clean language?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0414par0651	If you have a problem, come and tell me here. You're just causing noise pollution in there.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0415par0652	You don't talk about that when you have a sense of shame.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0417par0653	Listen, listen. Give me your answer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0418par0654	Yeah. General Board...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0419par0655	If there's any shame left, I say shame on you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0420par0656	Mr. President, please... He's got paper handed to his hand, and you're out without reading it. You don't even know what it says.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0419par0657	A woman who has devoted some of her life to this country's struggle for democracy is trying to announce her demands in prison because she does not speak here in parliament. Layla is a elected MP with the votes of the people of Hakkari, and if you had lived a tenth of what she went through, you would have packed your bags and left this country already.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0421par0658	We have nowhere else to go but this country. If you're going, go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0419par0659	Look, from Paris to India, in many parts of the world, there are messages of solidarity with Layla Trust. However, the ruling and some opposition parties in this parliament, which he is a member of, continue to play three monkeys.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0422par0660	What are you playing at?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0419par0661	And right now, Leyla Trust is at a critical stage of health.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0423par0662	Let him eat, let him drink.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0419par0663	The public's mind and conscience, especially the Kurdish people, is now in Diyarbakır Prison, and their only demand is the removal of the lockdown. But what is your policy against this demand? Taking into custody the city buildings of our citizens, who have claimed the request of Layla Güven, who have started the hunger strike. Look, in the raid on our county building, the police dragged the mothers who were on hunger strike barefoot into custody without giving them a chance to put their shoes on, and forced their white nets out of custody. But these illegalities are neither the first nor the last. Saturday's Mothers were dragged into custody during the 700th week of their actions, sprayed with gas. The violence against women in the country increased by 150 percent, and you did not allow women to walk on November 25th. Mother Taybet's funeral was in the middle of the street for seven days, and you didn't even let her family have it because you're afraid that women's resistance will overthrow your power and that will result. You say terror, you say violence, you say these actions were carried out by organizational instruction. You try to terrorize our party and our employees every time. One thing you don't seem to understand is that our party is an electorate from the smallest village to the counties, from the region to the Parliament. Look, Mr. Gültan Kışanak, who is currently under arrest for the Roboski massacre in 2012 and began his hunger strike with the same demand as today, had spoken, saying that you have been fighting a people for 90 years under the name of the terrorist. That's what you don't understand, a party you're accusing of terrorism has more than 6 million votes. Then that's exactly what you're saying to the citizens who voted for us. But there is a truth you must accept that citizens who demand peace do not see their own representation in you. Despite your trustee policies, your pressures, your detentions, your massacres and your war policies, the AKP was released from the polls in the June 24th elections, especially in the cities where Kurds were busy, not the HDP. We now have the 31st of March elections ahead of us, but months ago, government officials have made statements that if there are people involved in terrorism from the chest, we will throw in trustees again. You are in fact terrorizing the will of the people, and you know very well that the HDP will come out of the chest again, we will appoint trustees if the HDP is officially released from the chest. For us, it's a democracy problem, a loss of the will of millions. We know you're not interested in democracy, but in money. Then let's speak the language you understand. Open up, look at the Court reports, how much money the trustees you so highly praised have cheated. Look, you've appointed trustees to 96 municipalities, but even the Court will be intimidated by the numbers, which has only announced the Court reports of 12 municipalities on the website of...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0424par0668	Are you angry because it interfered with the money you sent to the PKK?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0425par0669	It's coming for you, it's coming for you, it's coming for you, it's
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0426par0670	Why would he come to us?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0424par0671	The money doesn't go to the PKK, is that why it bothers you?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0425par0672	Prove he's gone somewhere.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0427par0673	Listen to the messenger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0424par0674	Mind your own business.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0427par0675	Mr. Ali...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0428par0676	...has not released the reports of the remaining 84 municipalities. The municipality doesn't publish the Court reports in 2016, as long as they're in our party, because when you took out those municipalities, you bought them all with zero debts and a lot of money in the vaults. Now the Mayor of Pain...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0429par0677	Get out of here! You were sending it to the mountain. Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0428par0678	Listen and learn. ...bank loans and expenses... 20 million and 53 grand. The total debt from the city of Tunceli is 936 thousand. The Van City Hall deficit is 95 million. The Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, which is my constituency, does not say how much it is owed, even though it has entered the Court's reports. So let's just, with one example, clarify a little bit about the oasis of the situation. Look, before the appointment of trustees at Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality, the municipality was established with 15 million fixed budgets per month to meet all trade services.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0430par0681	Don't throw it away, don't
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0428par0682	This company, which has paid for all public services and has a significant profit, began to lose after the trustee arrived, and it could not even pay for the many companies it has tendered. These companies, unable to allocate what they were owed from the city, failed to pay the workers' wages, reached the sinking stage. Before the trustee arrived, everyone in the city's community service contract got paid on time to finish the job. If he can't even pay these companies, where do the trustees transfer these resources?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0430par0683	Tourism has increased, tourism has increased.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0428par0684	As a matter of fact, the trustee is trying to leave the municipality in debt because he knows he's going to lose in this local election.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0430par0685	Have you travelled in Suruç, Surah? Tourism has increased in Diyarbakır.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0428par0686	Look, the government tells the people of Diyarbakır that if you vote for the People of Diyarbakır, we will cast trustees. Such understanding is nowhere in the world. The actions of your trustees are obvious.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0431par0687	Wrongs, distortions, terrors, they're assigned.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0432par0688	Let's hear it from the clerk, Mr. Lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0431par0689	Sir, let the preacher speak as a preacher, the preacher speaks as a terrorist.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0433par0690	You shut down 10 women's offices in Diyarbakır alone. You fired 969 workers working in the municipalities. You've closed down primary-language day care centers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0432par0692	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0433par0693	On February 21, 2016, you took the teachers who taught Kurdish as if they were mocking, from their jobs on Earth's Mother tongue Day. Roboski's monument, built by Kayapınar Municipality for the Roboski massacre, was removed in the middle of the night. Does that make any sense? Instead of facing one of the most horrific massacres in recent history in Turkey, you removed the monument to the massacre, removed the Kurdish signs, tried to destroy a memory. Dear lawmakers, the country is not governed by threats, corruption, extortion. The solution is the solution to the problem of democracy, as we've pointed out from the very beginning. So we can sit down and talk about this in terms of human rights, or the public will no longer submit to your threatening policies.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0432par0696	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0433par0697	On March 31st, the people will have the best answer to your threat policies again in the polls, no doubt about it. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0432par0700	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0434par0703	Mr. President, very dear MPs, I bid you good evening. We listened very carefully to the minister. Of course, I don't know where the speeches are being prepared, but since it came out of a certain automation...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0435par0706	What does that mean?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0436par0707	Where's yours getting ready?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0435par0708	What's that like?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0437par0709	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0435par0710	Do you have the right to say such a thing?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0437par0711	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0712	When you speak on the stand, you say, "Listen 30 times. Listen."
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0435par0713	Miss Özlem, would you say something like that?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0437par0714	Don't beat around the bush, lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0715	I warn my friends, my dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0439par0716	Warn your own group first.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0717	If you don't listen, it won't change anything, I'll wait, and I'll continue if he's quiet.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0440par0718	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0441par0719	See, we wanted the same thing.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0720	It doesn't matter, because you say the same thing every day, so I'll wait again patiently, and we'll say the time will come.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0442par0721	Why are you afraid to hear the truth? That's the truth.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0722	Now, I'd like to say that I've been talking to some friends from the Jewish community in Istanbul recently, and they gave me a book, and I can give you the name of the book on Jewish clothes. There's a chapter in that book that interests me, and there's a section about tubing. In Ottomans -- if I say so, by referring to the book -- it says that wearing tulbents is for Muslims only, that non-Muslims are forbidden to use tulbents. And why -- my own interpretation -- is a veil used by tulbent women, and it's more used for turbans in men. It's a very simple, raw substance -- let's say -- one of the most simple, simple things, and I think the tulbent represents innocence, which represents faith in this land.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0443par0724	So?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0725	I mean... I'll come. I'll tie you up, and there may not always be a review, so I'll tie you up somewhere, if it opens. I'm going to come over here, as Mrs. Filiz said: Now, under the tulbent, you've mentioned things about tubing, so you've talked about opening the heads of women in tulbents and so on. Now, it's a matter of approach, so the reason why this is put in Ottoman is because he's actually kept the simplest, most basic thing to himself, and he's kept the simplest one to himself. Now, if you're going to do something under the tulbent, you have to do something with the spirituality of this land, within a spirit that surrounds this land, that doesn't want to divide it, that has the essence of this land, that has its language, its flag, its everything. So what I'm trying to say here is, there's no need for this kind of abuse. You don't need to use a separation language in this country. You're always talking about war, you're always talking about your own suffering. And I'm saying that in this country, a system before that has caused us all, all of us, to suffer. We have the opportunity to end this ordeal together.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0444par0729	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0730	But instead, you're talking about words that are out there, mind, soul, everything... so I'm looking at the words you're using, the words you're talking about in Ireland, and you're talking about it with a complete mind, with a fiction, with an outside mind.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0445par0731	What does "outside" mean?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0438par0732	I mean, even the things our young congressman friend is using, the things he's talking about, it's too much for him, it's too much for his life. So, please, I'm asking you, no need for these words of war anymore. I don't understand what's missing in this country to live together. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0446par0736	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0447par0738	Mr. President, the speeches are being written by us, no one's writing speeches for us, we don't need that. It's a shame. It's really been used here a couple of times. You know, people who don't think like you... we used to go through this when we were kids, and our parents used to say, "Don't follow your friend, he's driving you off the road, he's doing this for you, he's doing this for you." We're adults here now, adults, and we have the capacity to write our own conversations, to express ourselves. But of course you won't like them, because you're the people we've been in power, criticized, critical of their policies so far. You won't like it, but you'll have to endure it, you'll have to endure it. You're in power because you've been in power for 16 years.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0446par0740	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0447par0741	We're here by choice. You say, you say, you say, we can tell a lot about this; we can tell a lot about how those choices are, how our freedom of propaganda are not, but I want to point out that women have different colors; in Ottomans, I made a documentary about this, because there are women, and there are other different non-Muslim women in '95. But there's innocence under the tunnel, and I don't think that's a very true word. There is innocence under the tülbend. It means that men are usually flowers, insects. It means that men should say, "Women are flowers, insects." It means that they should do all kinds of persecution, all sorts of things after that. There's also innocence under the tülbend, but what's a shame is that we fought against it at one time: they always said that some women -- especially women -- were hurting me when they said -- were hurting me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0446par0744	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Kerestecioglu.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0447par0745	I'm putting it together, Mayor. They're actually using their headscarf for politics. I was like, "Oh, how do you know, why do you talk like that? I mean, in the end, they can wear it any way they want. Now I don't feel good about saying things like that to us. Like I said... You said it was too much. You said it was my friend's life. I suggest you read the book The Purple Color of the Kurdish Politics of Dear Gültan Kışanak. I gave it to my mother, 85 years old, she reads it, she reads it with tears because these are my friends, the Kurdish friends I knew later, people who have never lost a family in their lives. I say we learn to get to know each other a little bit, know each other, look at each other. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0448par0750	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0449par0751	Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0448par0753	Mr. President, thank you. I'm always happy to take a book proposal and read it. Reading is one of my favorite things in life, and it's one of the best ways to learn. My objection here, Mr. Kerestecioglu, is that we can think about a lot of the same things about you and women, and there are a lot of things that we can share. In fact, what I'm saying, of course, is that people can do whatever they want. I'm talking about symbols, and we have no objection to the way he wants to dress, and our lives have been fought by it. Now, you're talking about a language. If the congressman who just spoke on the stand says to us in one of the three words, "Get down!" why should we be ashamed? Is it a shame to be in power? So winning is something to be ashamed of? Is opposition something to be ashamed of? It's nothing to be ashamed of.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0450par0758	It's a shame what's been done. It's a shame to keep a congressman in jail for power.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0448par0759	Here's the thing...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0451par0761	A congressman of this House is in prison.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0452par0762	The wrong-doer is called shamer.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0453par0763	Ladies and gentlemen, let's hear from the Deputy Director of the Group without a word.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0454par0764	I'd like to make another statement, Mr. President, and I'd like to close it in one sentence. In fact, if you're saying they're illegal in the face of what's being done legally, you have to look at them. So in the end, justice has to react to a matter of law. Just because a person is a congressman doesn't mean he's innocent on his own. The crime may have been committed, the judgment may continue to do so, but when you look from here, you put these processes aside, and you look down at us in one of the three words and say, Shame, shame! No one has the right to do so from this stand, no one has the right to do so. Let each man pay for his own lives first. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0455par0768	Mr. President, just a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0456par0769	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0455par0771	It's nothing to be ashamed of, not alone, of course, but if there's oppression, persecution, or injustice, it could be something to be ashamed of. In fact, it's not just about being in power. And it's not just a criticism from our universe. We're really getting a lot of complaints from prisons about this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0456par0773	Thank you. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Ankara MP Yıldırım Kaya has asked for a statement on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Rock. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0457par0782	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been negotiating budgets for days. The more I listen to the ministers who come out here and talk, the more I think about whether they live in the wrong place or whether I live in the wrong place. Because it's like there's no country, no roses, no poverty, no corruption, no father who commits suicide on the street because he can't buy shoes for his kid, no teacher who wipes his snot when his student comes to school, no teacher who puts his poverty aside and takes his student in his arms. I think the walls of your friends' palaces or glass mansions are too thick, they don't hear or see anything that's going on out there. And there's no windows here, so if you'll notice, we don't see outside. There really is a nightmare out there. Please turn around and see what's out there.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0458par0784	Where do you live?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0457par0785	If you look outside, and you go to the streets of Goatören, and you go to the streets of Altındağ, and you see the children standing there with their feet bare, and their heads open, you will see what is happening. Please let us be aware of the problems of the citizen on the street, the labels that change every day. I am a teacher, and I would like to address you as a teacher: education is a march of civilization, a walk of freedom, a walk of light, a walk of light through darkness, and education in the way of Master Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. (CHP rows) We walked this road, paid any price. In this land, where the times were closed and opened, we walked in the land of Mehmet, who had died for the sake of the quiet masses, for the sake of the will, and for the sake of virtue. We walked, we walked, we walked, we walked in the dark roads of the Light Turkey. We'll walk, we'll walk, we'll pay any price. We will walk with our heart and our body. This is our march, our walk of freedom; this is our march, our march of democracy; this is our march of peace. For civilization, for civilization, for science, for democracy, there are those who lie in our way, there are those who steal questions, there are young people who are left out the door, there are teachers who aren't appointed, there are students who are whipped for education, there are teachers who are trained, there are educated workers. O Justice and Development Party governments, you can't continue in education with the mind of September 12th, the mindset of September 12th has changed seven ministers to you, 11 systems, but the corruption of education, the old age of education has never changed! Give up this way. Did you take your child or grandson to school at the crack of dawn? Do you know why he's being taken away so early in the morning? You never understood the concept of time, you didn't give up on the use of summertime, our children got pneumonia, and I hope you'll see that. Have at least three children. Have you considered how these children will study, how they will find a job?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0789	That's our business, not yours. You take care of it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0457par0790	Currently, Turkey - 11.4 per cent - is one of the four children without jobs, children without schools...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0791	Take care of your business; you reduce it, and We will multiply it for you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0460par0792	You don't do it, you do it. You don't get asked.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0457par0793	...you left the reader out of a job.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0794	It's better if you don't.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0461par0795	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0796	You cut it down, we'll multiply it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0462par0797	Dear Regent, I'm from the home of Osman Division head.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0461par0798	Congressman, Congressman...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0799	It's better if you don't.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0462par0800	Know your place, don't make promises! You make a promise, you get a promise.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0801	We're happy with our children. We kiss their eyes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0462par0802	You didn't invest in the brain, you invested in the concrete.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0459par0803	What do you want with our children, our future?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0463par0804	Congressman, wait a minute, wait a minute, Mr. Congressman. For once, first of all, Miss Özlem, I beg you, promise Mr. Recep to speak; he talks to everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0464par0806	I'm not, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0807	But you stopped time, didn't you?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0463par0808	Don't beat around the bush.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0809	Now, dear friends, keep talking, keep talking, Mrs. Özlem...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0466par0810	What do you want with our children?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0811	You shut up! Shut up! Shut up! Shut up!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0466par0813	What do you want with our children? We have kids now?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0814	Naughty, quiet, sit down! Sit down! Speech! Speech! You're rude! Yeah, you know, brains.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0467par0816	Congressman, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0817	I'm addressing the General Assembly, so please add my time.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0467par0818	Wait a minute, wait a minute... wait a minute, Congressman, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0819	Here, if you invest in concrete...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0468par0820	Sir, speak like a congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0467par0821	Congressman, Congressman...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0822	...600,000 students have to go to open schools. You don't invest in concrete, you invest in people. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You brought 4+4+4, the girls are out of school. If you want to increase the number of surrogates here in women... the more people who finish middle school... the less they'll go back in the economy. See this, put this in your head. The quality of education has gone down. According to the quality of education, we are 105 ▪ out of 145 countries. You may perceive PISA as "pizza" but at PISA, we are number 50 in 75 countries. The national level is gone. We are ready to pass on to a system of secular, democratic, scientific education without money, quality, reachable, regional differences. We'll make all kinds of contributions to this, but you don't want to compete with secularism, science, modernity in the world of the 21st century, but despite you, this race will take place, this country will become a country that can't be competed in the world. We, the Republican People's Party, say, "Let the teacher have the law of the profession immediately; let the teacher be here to defend these rights." School family units to meet the needs of the school... free school, autonomous school, the obstacles to raising free students. The political parties, which are the product of September 12th, should be removed as soon as possible. No teacher should be charged under the poverty line. On October 5th, don't hesitate to give teachers a salary bonus on Teacher's Day, November 24th. A teacher is a teacher; no staff, no contract, no charge. You are unjust to the teacher who lives in his own Manisa, in his wife, Van. The concept of family is sacred to us. If it's sacred to you, end these divisions at once. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The Minister of National Education has made a statement from this bench, saying: "You don't need 153,640 teachers, you need 17,000 teachers. When are you going to appoint 97 grand of 17,000 teachers? You left these schools without teachers, mosques without imams. The reason you've left mosques imamless is because you've made imams in mosques managers of schools. Come on, don't let mosques be imamless, schools without teachers. In my village, there are no imams in the mosque, no teachers in the school. I don't have to do Friday prayers every time. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yes, you have to open a kindergarten to every neighborhood. You have to switch to the 1+8+4 educational system. You have to look after students who need special training. Two days ago, Ziya Selçuk says: "Friends have told us, let's end the transport system. But they don't know... we don't really know, it's in Canada, it's in the United States, it's in New Zealand. See, this is the transportation system in Canada, and this is how they carry it in Canada. This is Turkey, this is Şanlıurfa, you have no right to carry our children on a donkey's back.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0469par0833	Excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0834	This is Istanbul, in the heart of Istanbul, and this is a teacher's room. The teacher's room, the architect of enlightenment, who raised you, raised us. Let's take care of all this. Yes, dear friends, teachers, cops, nurses, imams, public employees, I know. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Would you care to give me 3600 additional indicators?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0470par0838	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0839	Two minutes. That's what stopped me. Add that.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0470par0840	Sure, sure, sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0841	The minimum wage will be net $2,200, no income tax from minimum wage. Employees and pensioners need a raise twice a year. The age of those who work hard and dangerous jobs must be brought to 55. Don't mention the old folks in retirement, let's get the law out.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0471par0842	3600, 3600.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0843	Don't run away from a salary bonus, not a thousand liras, during the Eid for the pensioners and the Festival of Ramadan. Let's all give it to him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Yeah, let's get more taxes than less than more than less. Are you willing to pay a thousand lira salary to needy families? Are you willing to pay a thousand lira to the poor who can't bring bread home? Don't shut up, are you in?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0472par0846	We're giving it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0847	If you're in, let's give it to him together.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0473par0848	Address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0849	Yes, my dear friends, the MPs and journalists in prison will be released. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The people's elected mayors must not be dismissed by order of one person...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0473par0852	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0853	...to be judged unfairly and unlawfully. Remove all obstacles to freedom of thought and expression. After the July 20 coup, let him eat a treeshell that was discharged without a trial. Those you call treeshells must return to duty at once. Do you want to ask the people to answer? Let's all go on a hunt. Do you know where you'll see him when we go on the hunt? Look, we gave them the parcels, whatever they wanted. If you're looking for the people who delivered the cosmic room of the state, look in the mirror, and whoever you see in the mirror is there.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0474par0855	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0856	Yes, not for the palace, but for the public.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0474par0857	Get out of here, get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0475par0858	Address the General Assembly, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0465par0859	Be patient, and you'll see who will be there on the evening of March 31st.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0474par0861	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0476par0862	You're dreaming, you're dreaming, you're dreaming, you're dreaming!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0477par0863	Dream, dream!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0474par0864	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0476par0865	Is that what you teach the kids, Hajji?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0478par0866	Yes, thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0479par0867	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0478par0869	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... [[Interference between EC PARTY and CHP rows]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law... To the Justice and Development Party Group, your group's deputy president wants a word, dear friends. Miss Özlem...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0480par0873	Mr. President, can you turn on the microphone?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0478par0874	Sure. Dear lawmakers, as acting Speaker of Parliament, I'm ashamed to use the expression of a congressman, don't make promises. Let's be patient, we have very valuable group presidents, you may want to speak. And while you're at it, I assure you, the citizen who is in his home right now watching the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is saying a lot of bad things about us, and he says, "Look at this." So it doesn't suit him. Now, Imran Kılıç -- isn't it -- our Maraş MP sometimes makes good statements, such as this assembler, tidyer. And I'm amazed at the impatientness there, the Congressman. Miss Özlem, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0481par0882	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, I won't be speaking very long. Yeah, let's not beat around the bush, we're on the same page. The language of the House is not teasing, but speaking. But as the speaker begins to speak on the stand, he says, shall we talk about corruption or corruption? Degeneracy... How can a teacher use that word against a bunch of congressmen he doesn't know, who he doesn't know, from a stand?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0482par0884	No, no...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0481par0885	Yes, he did, he used that word. Is there no corruption, is there no corruption? Now, when you talk like that, you know, a person with a little bit of dignity, what do you say, Mr. President? Is that an expression? Is that possible?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0483par0886	That's nice of you to say.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0481par0887	Now, here, I respect teaching, I'm the child of a parent, a teacher, and I think it's my best chance in life. Our teachers probably can't be in that kind of language when they're talking on the stand, at least they can't use those words, they're very, very heavy words. One last sentence...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0483par0890	Let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0481par0891	It's enough for people with honor to hear such words only once; I'm returning them. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0483par0894	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0896	Thank you, Mr. President. Let's start here: I've told you before, the House is a place of speech, there's bullying in Congress, Mr. President, it's a ritual of the Coven.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0485par0898	No insults.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0899	Oh, wait, I'm talking about picking on your place. There are no insults in the House, no matter who does it, there's no way we can accept the insult. There will be bullying in parliament, but the AK PARTI Group generally does not abuse when the issues that bother them are mentioned from the bench, but is not harassment; it is not harassment; it is not harassment, it is unacceptable. What I understood from my congressman was...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0486par0902	Are you defending me, Mr. Altay?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0903	Miss Özlem, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0486par0904	Wait a minute, if you're defending us, we're going to do a more ambitious one, ask for a sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0905	What? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0486par0907	Tell me, you've talked a lot.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0908	Now, I also thought it odd that you admit to corruption, so I don't even want to say... sir, what I understand is...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0487par0909	We don't accept it, we don't accept it.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0486par0910	No, no, not at all. Look, please...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0911	Well, I'll tell you what I understand.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0488par0913	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0914	Mr. Congressman, there's poverty in the community, there's corruption, there's genocide. He said, "There's no way he can accuse you, I'll go in front of him, won't I?"
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0915	Then get out. He needs to apologize, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0917	But sir... no, no, what will he wish for? No degenerates back home? No corruption? We don't mean you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0918	What do you mean? You tell us, you tell our friends.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0919	No theft? Isn't it dirty? No abuse of the child, no violence of the woman?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0920	What do you mean, degenerate?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0921	Everything's in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0922	No. What do you mean, degenerate? He needs to apologize. That's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0923	Apologize for what? You haven't been spoken to.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0924	Who did he tell?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0925	Is there corruption in this country? I do. There's also genocide in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0926	I don't agree.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0927	There's stuff like that back home. No one who's lost their lineage...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0928	There will be an apology for that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0929	What excuse?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0930	Yes, you will be sorry.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0931	What apology?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0932	Mr. President, please, I mean, she said to him, she didn't say that. No. It's about...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0933	That's what I'm saying. Again... it's still me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0934	He'll apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0935	I have the floor.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0936	I've got the word. I'm on it. Jesus Christ!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0937	And I say, Mr. President, unfortunately there's corruption in this country, there's corruption.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0938	No, he's going to apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0939	That's what our congressman said.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0940	Oh, no, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0941	What can't be? I'm telling you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0489par0942	Oh, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0484par0943	For God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-18sit04spe0490par0944	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0490par0001	I open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 36th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion, I'll have it read and put to your votes. At a meeting Tuesday (18/12/2018), the General Assembly's proposal to continue its work until the vote of Article 5 (including Article 5) of the Council's Article 5/12/2018, on Tuesday (18/12/2018), and to continue its work until Article 14 (including Article 14) in Wednesday's merger. Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. The commission is in place. Erzincan MP Burhan Çakır has now asked for a personal word on Article 4 of the article. Here you go, Mr. Cakir. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0491par0032	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute your high council and our beloved nation. Before I begin my words, I ask God's mercy to all of our martyrs who know their homeland as a saint, and especially to our brother Muhammad Ali Kalo, who died three days ago at Afrin Tel Rifat. Of course, I give thanks and thanks to each and every member of our heroic army, which serves abroad and abroad. Again, I offer my greetings and greetings to law enforcement in the same way. The Deputy Director of the Group just told me about the corruption. We, as a nation in our country, are well aware of those who have committed genocide to overthrow His Majesty Abdulhamit Khan by spying with the British. Again, we are well aware of the degenerates who were led by the government and who were outside with those treacherous collaborators, especially the Germans, after the July 15th coup. So there's no account that we can't give to our nation, so I want it to be known. Of course, when I say this at the beginning of my words, I thank our national Secretary of Defense here yesterday, our Secretary of State, and also our Minister of Industry and Technology, for their superior efforts, their work, and their performance, in the presence of our beloved nation. And I also want to thank our predecessors for their work. The budget of 2019 was designed to maintain fiscal discipline, increase exports, divert resources to productive areas, increase investments and employment, increase savings, reduce current deficits. I'd like to thank our Treasury and Finance Ministry, our Plan and Budget Commission and our bureaucrats, who have been involved in drafting the budget proposal in 2019. The successful performance in budget pencils during the 16-year period has been one of the main areas in which Turkey's economy is cited as an example. It has left many European countries behind today, leading the developing country's economies. Turkey's economy has eliminated all negatives of the 2013 Travel events, including the 2008 global economic crisis, the 17-25 December coup attempt and the July 15th treacherous coup attempt. In particular, over the past year, he has remained resistant to attacks on Turkey's economy and economic sanctions. Our greatest advantage in eliminating this process is the political stability of the EC PARTY, and the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Some measures have been taken against those who do not want Turkey to grow and strengthen, a new road map for Turkey's economy has been set by the New Economy Programme, which was announced in September. A significant step has been taken against threats to the future of the global economy, which can now be established on balancing, discipline and change. Dear lawmakers, despite all the negatives, I'd like to mention the growth figures that have recently been announced by the TİK. Turkey's economy grew by 7.3 per cent in the first quarter of the year and 5.2 per cent in the second quarter. In the third quarter of this year, despite all economic attacks, it has achieved a 1.6 percent growth rate compared to the same quarter of the previous year. From these data, Turkey's economy is based on solid foundations. As an EC PARTY, we have set our nation's service and every business in the interest of our nation as a priority. AK PARTY has been a party that has fulfilled its promises so far.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0492par0046	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0491par0047	For 16 years, under the leadership of our President, Turkey has continued to grow and strengthen in the economy, democracy, freedom and other areas. We will continue to serve our country and Erzincan, with the awareness of the mission given to us on this blessed road. In the past 16 years, nearly 10 billion euros have been invested in Erzincan, including education, health care, transport and agriculture, as has been in every province during the AK PARTY administrations in our province. In particular today's Parliament Speaker, the last Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Buli Yıldırım, has been offered a share of these investments in many areas, including roads divided into Erzincan, airports, dams, schools, hospitals, tourism support. We have a debt of gratitude to Mr. Bali Yıldırım for his contributions. The number of dwellings that have been completed and continued with the TOKI channel has been 11.577. The works of the 12,500-capacity stadium are under way that suits our Erzincan. On this occasion, I wish you the best of luck to our 24 Erzincanspor.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0493par0051	Erzincan was well served, we know.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0491par0052	Again, when the construction of the Sivas-Erzincan fast train line is finished, our passengers will be given both economic benefits and ease during travel time. (AK PARTY) This line will reach Erzincan with the construction of the Ankara-Sivas speed train line to Erzincan, the people of Erzincan and the eastern provinces, and the public is excited to have this line built.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0493par0053	Thank you, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0491par0054	In order to improve the quality of health care and to serve more patients, the Mengücek Veteran Training and Research Hospital will be implemented as soon as possible. [[From the AK PARTY rows, they applaud the sound of the voice of the "Bravo" (Bravo).]] I salute you again, and wish you all a good evening.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0493par0058	Ankara MP Ali Haydar Hakverdi has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Hakverdi. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0494par0062	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. When we look at the 2019 budget, we can actually understand and understand what lies ahead of our country in 2019. The same understanding has already made a similar budget in 2018, and whatever happened to this citizen in 2018 will likely experience similar things in 2019. Like what happened this year? We had a train accident, two train accidents in five months. In fact, I can't help but think of it as an accident, and I'm a lawyer, and I don't think it's a deliberate death sentence. What's a conscious instalment? A lot of our lawyer friends know that. You predict a bad outcome, you know, even if you don't want the result, but for another reason, for example, it's luck, for example, it's experience; for these reasons, you put up a will, and unfortunately, there's an unwanted result. It's called conscious division. Now, you built a railroad, but you didn't complete it. Without setting up a signaling system, you opened that railroad just to reach the election and with a vote of anxiety, and you killed nine of our lives. Of course, no one would want that result, but it's estimated that the cause of this result is to cause death in a conscious amount of time. Now, who's to blame here? Three workers have been arrested; of course there aren't. Crimes judge, but that's not enough. Whoever's in charge of this place is a partner in these deaths, and if this is the firm that you've given this tender to, then he's a partner, and he's the one who opened this place knowingly, and he's a partner in it, and they all need to be judged. Dear friends, I won't go into budget figures at this hour, but I'd like to share a story with you. A dictator came out of his palace, came into the center of the city, and entered the most luxurious restaurant. He saw a person sitting alone in a restaurant, and when he approached him, he looked at his desk, which was incredibly full, one bird's milk missing; dragon's fruit, honey almonds. The dictator approached this table, pulled up the chair, and sat next to the person. He was surprised to learn that this person was fed every day but every day, every night, with this rich table. He said to the person: "How much do you get paid per day?" He said: "Well, if there is poverty in the country, if the worker, the farmer, the officer, the worker, the officer, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, the man, The man laughed and said, "I'll make $4,000 a day." The dictator was surprised. He said, "Well, if we said, cash in those shrouds under the pillow, and the people got poorer, what would you earn in the day?" He said, "Well, what would you gain if we tightened the belt of the people? The man says, "What would you earn?" He says, of course, the dictator is surprised, but curious, he says, "What do I do?" He says, "What do you do?" [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, dear friends, when the dollar went from $3 to $3 in our country, or rather, when it went from $3 to $7, someone added wealth to its wealth.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0495par0071	Yeah, you've had us listening for ten minutes, like there's something...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0494par0072	I'll be there, Mr. Can. I'll be there. Wait. But the people became poor, and the power to buy was diminished. Then those who told the public to cash their shrouds, on the one hand, were bringing ships into their ships, while the people were getting poor. You've built bridges that are guaranteed to cross again, and before long, you've made the people pay their taxes. What else did you do? You've built a hospital that's guaranteed, and you've made those city hospitals pay their taxes to this people. Dear friends, as the public became poor and sick, some of you were actually allies, so those gravediggers became rich. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need an extra minute.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0496par0078	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0494par0079	Dear lawmakers, there are no workers in this budget, no farmers, no workers.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0497par0080	It's the usual.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0494par0081	Yes, the usual, your usual, I agree with you, you're right. There are new train murders in this budget, folks. This budget has new prisons, summer palaces, winter palaces, flying palaces. This budget is a waste. There's a ban on this budget. This budget is the budget of the wealthy gravediggers who benefit from the poverty of the people, not the people. We don't accept this budget. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0498par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0494par0086	Do you understand, Mr. Can?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0499par0087	But it wasn't the speech you were supposed to have, it was going to be more alive.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0498par0088	Now, we're going to do the question-answer process in five minutes, questions, five minutes to answer. Mr. Imran Sword, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0500par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. I have four questions. 1) How much resources are earmarked for education from the central management budget? 2) What is the share of the national income that is earmarked for education from the central management budget? 3) How much money is earmarked for national income in OECD countries and in our country? 4) How is the education budget compared to the defence and security budget? I also want to express my satisfaction. In fact, everyone in this House is talking, fighting for their place; it's a good thing. People can talk... I want to contribute with a proverb, and our elders say: "The more absurd it is to speak in silence, the more absurd it is to be silent in speech. "
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0501par0097	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0502par0099	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to our Commissioner: reviews of the budget proposal of 2019 that have not even touched his comma are being criticised in the budget talks. Mr. President, the proposal has been going on for the General Assembly for nine days, and we've all watched this process as lawmakers, and we've all seen how the process works. I wonder if we have friends who are not members of the Commission when this proposal is being discussed, and maybe they think differently, or maybe they don't know the process of the Commission, can you explain in detail how this is discussed in the Commission, Mr. President? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0503par0103	Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0504par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the authority of the Turkish Statistical Agency: the prices of the manufacturer are going down every day, the input prices are going up all the time. For example, the price of meat goes down, the feeder goes down, the bait goes up, the manufacturers go down again. HOW does TÜKİK say inflation turns food prices on. The calculations are wrong. Or don't you ever follow the markets? The Meat and Milk Association gives a day for animal slaughter by the end of February 2019. The number of animals waiting in line for the slaughter has exceeded 300,000. Private slaughterhouses don't slaughter animals because there's no demand, farmers can't find a place to cut their cattle. And those who make cuts offer 25 liras per pound of carcassian meat, and some even more ruthless, 23 or 24 liras. The cost of 1 kilo of karkas is over $30. I'm asking you now: will you continue to import meat by ignoring these facts and saying, "Gada inflation"?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0505par0107	Dear Virtue...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0506par0108	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Finance Minister, is that the need for vehicles in public institutions has been provided with a way of renting them for a long time. Drivers who operate in rental vehicles are also members of the staff outside the institution's staff. Drivers are employed at subcontractor status. What is the reason for the fact that, outside of driving duties, drivers who do cleaning staff and security work, and who spend all of their hours working at the agency, including the weekend, still don't have jobs? Will there be a staff in their contract to compensate for the victims of our drivers, who are only in charge of driving? My question is, Mr. Ministry of Labor at the same time: there is an interview in the hiring process. Our citizens in the blue-collar class have objections to this issue. Will there be an arrangement for the interview? Also, is there a study at the Ministry of the Family about the job descriptions for the rights, staff and status of the employees in exchange for additional classes? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0507par0113	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0508par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. I have four questions for the Commissioner. Question number one: How much funding has been earmarked from the National Ministry of Education budget between 2002 and 19? Question two: how much funding has been left from the National Ministry of Education budget for the free book? How many books were distributed? The third question is: How much resources have been earmarked for YURTKUR, scholarship, student loans and food benefits? The fourth question is: What are the number of dorms and students that have been opened since 2002? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0509par0121	Mr. Strawberry instead of Mr. Boogeyman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0510par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, at today's Efficiency Project Awards held by our Ministry of Industry and Technology, our Amasya has achieved great success. At the Efficiency Project Awards ceremony, Amasya Macit Zeren Fen High School was the first of Turkey in 2018. Our first babies, Berkay Kunt and Abdulsamet Köroğlu, our county and our school administrators, our teachers who have worked hard, again the same competition, the Merzifon Organised Industry Company, which is second in the category of small and medium-sized enterprises, celebrates the Apadun Metal Products Industry and Trade Anonim Corporation executives, engineers and workers, and continue their successes. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0511par0125	Now, to answer the questions, I give the word to the Commission. Your time is five minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0512par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the funding from the 2019 budget for education appears to be 161 billion $615 million. There's a 20 percent increase, and when we do, we see that his share within the central management budget is 16.8%. Other than that, you asked about the investments of the Ministry of National Education from 2002-2019. Total investments of 109 billion liras were made. Gene was asked to compare the defense budget. The source in the defence budget is 100.6 billion liras, 161 billion dollars from national education, but if we compare it here, like 2002-2018, the funding for the education budget has increased by 14 times, while the source for the defence budget has increased by 8.4 times, but in 2002, we see that defence spending is 3.4, and in 2019, this number has dropped to 2.3. We can also say that relative defense spending has been pulled down and its share of the budget has fallen down. In the same way, a question came about the commission's work. Let me tell you this: In total, our 185 fellow MPs, including 30 of them members of the Commission, came to the Commission -- our friends who were not members of the Commission -- and they all expressed their views there. Let me tell you: 9 of our friends from the EC PARTY, but 88 from the Republican People's Party, 28 from the Peoples' Democratic Party, 8, from the National Movement Party, 8 from Saadet, TİP and the independents, came and reported their views, but not once, of course, they did this in a time. It's a study that lasts 19 days in total and lasts about 200 hours. The Virgül was not touched. 20 motions were discussed there at the same time; two of them were accepted, and three of them were filed with the commission's report. We've already talked about budget rights and the use of the budget, and we've drawn a framework of the role of the General Assembly and the Commission. Gene, in the same way, came the following: There was a question about scholarships. In 2018, $2.4 billion was earmarked for scholarships to 458,000 students, 1.2 million was earmarked for student loans, $7.2 billion was earmarked for feeding aid for students staying in state dorms, and $1 billion was earmarked for $350 million. In 2019, 503,000 students received a scholarship and a total of $2.7 billion, and $6.7 billion for a student's student loan; and 1.1.7 billion for a tax exemption from state housing and from the Council of Ministers, and 1 billion $760m in nutrition aid for students living in their homes. These figures are included in budget pencils. When we look at the number of dorms that have been opened, we see an increase in bed capacity by 266 percent. By the end of the year, the total number of beds will reach 680,000. In the 16-year period, Gene also reached 96 per cent in elementary school, 81 per cent in secondary school, and the gross schooling rate in secondary school rose to 99.7, and 108.4 per cent in secondary school. Gene, there were no questions about the girls' schooling rate, but a reference was made during the talks. Let me put it this way: As of the period of 2017-2018, we have 96 girls in primary school for 100 boys. In secondary school, it reached 91 per cent when it was 72 years old in 2002, and when it came to 2017-2018 in exchange for 100 boys. Besides...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0513par0138	Sadi President, did you know the question?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0514par0139	Time's up, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0515par0140	Pack it up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0516par0141	Well, thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0515par0142	Mr. Scabukcuoğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0517par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to ask you two things. Any words, dots, on the Plan and Budget Commission? Has the decimal been moved? Second of all, we spent billions of dollars on education, we spent about this many trillion dollars. These are the entries. What's wrong with these? And then what is the current level of success with the level of success in the middle school 15 years ago? What's the success of kids who took the college exam 15 years ago? How many questions did the kids answer then, how many questions do they answer now?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0518par0146	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0517par0147	I'm ending it, Mr. President. In addition, the number of articles that entered the Science Citation Index from universities fifteen years ago, and the number of articles that are now available, the number of publications referred to 15 years ago, and the number of current publications referred to from the current publications?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0518par0149	Thank you. Mr. Enginyurt...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0519par0151	Thank you, Mr. President. Sixteen years ago in Turkey, I remember Necip Hablemitoglu, who described the construction -- according to me -- best described, expressed, and struggled with his life at the expense of his life and was ultimately killed in a low assassination on December 18, 2002. He says we'll have a fight, I say God bless his place.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0518par0153	Thank you. There are two motions on the 4th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Here, read it. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The 2019-Year Central Management Budget Law Proposal is entitled to propose and propose that the 4th article, entitled "Consistent Cetves" (c) be identified by the following bell and the bell numbers be identified accordingly. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Okan Gaytancıoğlu Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer Nurşat Altaca Kayışoğlu Kadim Durmaz (City Hospitals and Other Public Special Co-operation Projects and Other Reasons of Treasure Guarantees Shows A Five-Year-long Load Forecast (D) The city's hospitals and the other town's private business will show off its campaigns and the state of the state for five years to follow its year. [[Million Dollars]] Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0520par0168	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0518par0169	Members of parliament, the amendments in Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. The issue of Turkish public financing load guarantees provided for city hospitals and other public private co-operation projects and other reasons was one of the most controversial issues during the talks on the commission of the Central Budget Law of 2019. Contracts on long-term public private co-operation projects have taken down the policy preferences of many governments in both health and public finances, and have almost completely eliminated their preferential opportunities. Public investments are based on budget opportunities in almost every country in the world. It is considered to be contrary to financial discipline and budget principles for public investments to be done in non-budget ways. In our country, the first public-private cooperation models in energy and transport areas are seen to have become increasingly common during the AKP, including education and health, and its financial portrait has been raised. Meanwhile, the use of the public-private cooperation model, which has been implemented during the AKP period, has been seen to have moved far beyond the preferences of advanced technology or services due to the exceptions of the relevant law, and has been used as a means of funding for similar capital groups. We all know that the economy of Turkey is giving budget deficits. In this framework, instead of the SME model of infrastructure investments, it would naturally increase the budget deficit and the treasure would be more in debt. However, in particular in terms of external debt, it would be appropriate to compare the debt of the treasure itself with the burden of being borrowed by the private sector under the SME model in terms of the country's economy. This issue is of great importance, given that the treasury has the means to borrow with lower interest and longer time. On the other hand, investments with the public-special cooperation model create a conditional obligation to the future. This conditional obligation has been established with the possibility of a treasure guarantee on contracts for investments with the KOI model. In other words, the private sector external debt will be loaded by the treasury when certain conditions occur in investments with the KOI model, during the business or rent period. Clearly, this would pose a serious financial risk to the Turkish financial system. In such a case, the risk of the treasure will rise, as the treasure will pay off the debt and the public debt will increase. This motion is made to add this estimate to the central budget laws for the years concerned with city hospitals and other public private co-operation projects and other reasons, to ensure that the burden it will carry during the five years of budget year will also be publicised. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We offer and propose that the specific account of the 2019-Year Center Management Budget Law Proposal, which is included in Article 48 of the additional E-Cetve, be removed from the text of the substance. Mehmet Bacheloroğlu Sibel Özdemir Ömer Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Kadim Durmaz Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0521par0189	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0518par0190	Members of parliament, the amendments in Article 162, which regulates the Constitution's budget talks, are also read and voted on without discussion. In violation of Article 161 of the Constitution's Article 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal (E-Cetve) of the E-Cetve of the E-Cetve of the E-Cetve of 2019, it is dated 9/4/2003 and under Law 29/5/1986 and under Law 3294, the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget 12.01.322. 00-01. 6. 0. 08-1-05. The budget for 881,000,000 Turkish liras, transport primary and secondary schools for textbooks to be distributed free of charge by the National Ministry of Education, the President is authorized to transfer these funds to the relevant arrangements of the National Ministry of Education budget for 962,000,000 Turkish liras and special education, as part of the project for Free Responsibility for Education and Access to Institutions, as part of the Ministry of Education, and to the end of the contract for the provision of the Special Education, which has been issued to the Ministry of Education for the purposes of Special Education and for the purposes of special education. Due to transfer to private accounts, the budget system is excluded. The main purpose and duties of the state are to protect the independence and integrity of the Turkish nation in Article 5 of the Constitution, the republic and democracy, the prosperity, peace and happiness of individuals and society; the efforts to set up conditions for the development of human physical and spiritual existence, which limit one's fundamental rights and freedoms, the social law state and the principles of justice, to remove political, economic and social barriers. It is a constitutional obligation for the Republic of Turkey to allocate funds and spend on the central management budget in exchange for the costs of students who need lunch and special education and access to schools and institutions under the rule of Article 42 and 61, which is also a social law state of the Constitution, which finds its definition in Article 2 of the Constitution. However, state institutions (the Ministry of National Education) must act in accordance with the existing constitutional restrictions and in the current public financial management and control order. Under these constitutional rules that keep budget laws separate from other laws, there is no way that a matter that should be regulated by law should be regulated by budget law or by any law that is in force to be passed by budget laws, whether it should be removed, not implemented, or in violation of regulations. The proposal for the Central Management Budget Law of 2019 is submitted to special accounts, which have been opened under Article 48/5 of the E Cetve, because it is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, which are 7 (87), 87 (87), 88 (88) and 89 (89) and 161). Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Now I'm going to read the 5th article. MADDE 5- (1) Payment to Cover Staff Expenses: If the public administrations and budgetary budgetary budgets are not seen to be sufficient, the budgets of private budgetary administrations will not be sufficient for the costs required by their relevant legislation. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To make a transfer from the grant in the scheme of one, The Treasury and Finance Ministry budget is 12:01.32. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. From the six-securities, the public administrations within the general budget and the budgets of private budgetary administrations (01), (02), (03), (05) and (08) in the very urgent and mandatory conditions (06) and (07) in the economic codes that include economic codes, The Treasury and Finance Ministry budget is 12:01.32. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. According to the implementation of the 2019 Year Programme, Co-ordination and Surveillance Decisions on the basis of the 2019 Investment Programme's implementation, from the grants in the three structures, to step up investments in the primary sectors, or to transfer them to the current or new settings of private budgetary administrations, depending on the conditions that develop within the first sectors and lower sectors and under the year, in order to increase the funding for the programme and to increase its funding. (4) Payment for Natural Disaster Expenses: The Treasury and Finance Ministry budget is 12:01.32. 00-01. 1. 2. 00-1-09. To transfer the funding in five settings to existing or new arrangements to meet all natural disaster costs for public administrations and private budgetary administrations under the general budget, as long as it is associated with the investment-quality investment programme in terms of investment-quality costs. The President is in charge. İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu on behalf of the PARTI Group demanding a statement on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0522par0214	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start by greeting you. We're talking about a budget offer in 2019. I'll talk about the 5th article, but first today is December 18th, the day of the martyrdom of Professor Necip Hablemitoglu. The late Hablemitoglu, a great Turkish nationalist who has performed important services, remembers his late Hablemitoglu with mercy and gratitude, and I wish that the Turkish youth would recognize him. As for the 5th article, it organises the funds that can be used if necessary. This item, consisting of pencils such as financing additional personnel costs, backup funding, accelerating investments and paying for natural disaster costs, appears to have only 141 million in its pencils in terms of natural disasters. It means that we must start praying now that there will be no natural disasters in 2019. According to the court reports, the amount of expenditure amounted to $38 billion at the end of the year is reported from the amount of $6.4 billion in 2017. This grant, which should not be more than 2 per cent of the overall budget total, has been above the legal limit in recent years. With the same understanding and irresponsibility, 7.16 billion will be spent on the palace unfairly and unresolvedly. By ignoring the expectations of millions of our people who are suffering from poverty, I'm already warning the government of such unjust spending. Dear lawmakers, here's what I understand about this budget: 1) No new investments. 2) The decision has been made, but unsettled investments are being halted. 3) The ongoing projects are spreading long-term. 4) New investments will be made if international financing can be found. 5) Growth will get smaller. 6) As employment cannot be created, unemployment will increase. 7) In short, the unemployed will face 2019 challenges for fixed and narrow incomes, and the middle pole will collapse. Look, in this budget, you continue to draw pink paintings because on all televisions, only your supporters are spoken for. You believe what he says, and then you put one of them in between, and then you believe what he says, but that's not the truth. In the first eighty years of the republic, where you try to close the parenthesis, you call the Old Turkey, the average growth rate is 5.3 percent. Your 16-year growth average is below that, you haven't even found 5 percent. Do you have any objection to those odds? You have left people unemployed by selling the factories, the facilities, which were built in the Republic era. You've forgotten the need to be a social government. You've turned our backs on strangers or allies. People were forced to live in debt, and they got used to it. As a result, daily life began to burn families, which became unbearable. Every day we face dozens of cases of insanity. Young people, children, grandmothers, grandparents, wives, children, parents are being slaughtered. Don't you realize it's been difficult to maintain family integrity and continuity especially in big cities? Where are we going? Stop playing with statistics to make the economy look good, and look at real statistics. Aren't you going to the market, the market, shopping, going into the public? Do you know the prices, how much is onion? The food is now done without onions. Do you know the son-in-law Ferit Pasha? It is the Ottoman sadrazam of Istanbul during the occupied years that the president of the Dianet Affairs visited in formal clothing, and those who thought so much about it. While the people were in distress, he made the cheeks of the lulfers, which were held in Bosphorus, in the reigning boat on Istanbul's moonlit nights, only appetizers to his raki. It's a fact. I don't know about the present-day table, but it's almost impossible to buy the people's best beans because of the rising prices. And the onion, which is considered appetizer of beans, is setting a record on record. The price was over $5 a weekend in Istanbul markets. You destroyed the State Planning Agency. Nothing's planned, nothing's planned, just what you're doing to keep your power going. Since production is not planned, we import products from all over the world, mostly GMO products. We're free to have whatever products we have that aren't properly controlled, that are dangerous, that are ill-advised. Today is the last day of Tutum, Investment and Turkish Property Week. In the market, in the market, in the grocery store, in the grocery store, the counters and shelves -- I'm sorry to say -- are mostly filled with these products. Dear friends, it is true that in their early years of power, they did good work, such as double roads, airports, tunnels, bridges, schools, mosques, hospitals, courthouses, sports halls, stadiums, fast train lines. What do the people say about what they did? Everyone, including the voters, says: "They stole, but they did. I wish they hadn't said that, if only it hadn't been stolen, you shouldn't have.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0523par0233	Which people do they say?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0522par0234	You've disabled the court. With their reports, you'll remove the executives who discovered the robbery immediately. If the work is done at a few times the usual price, where's the difference, who's splitting it? With what logic and conscience is the future of the Turkish nation being pursued? And in a hurry, there are loose ends and wrong jobs. The latest examples are viaducts and train accidents. We want to know if the signalization was paid for, but it wasn't. "What the minister says is a pathetic signalation is not essential." he says. Too bad you're not quitting, so don't talk! [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Job security, employee security, they don't even take it seriously. In the past 16 years, a total of 21,767 workers have been killed in the mine accidents, including 1,361 and 5,574. With these figures, we are the first in Europe and the second in the world in business accidents. We're going through a period where human health and value are ignored. Dear lawmakers, as we can see from the budget of 2019 and from the approaches of the government, we are in the dark. We're concerned about this situation. Our concern is for the future of the Turkish nation. We all live in this country. The good governance of our country is our greatest desire to make things better. There's a cure. We have whatever it takes to find solutions before it's too late. Mr. Akşener, our chairman, has repeatedly expressed that we are ready to share the work our economic staff has prepared, before and after the economic crisis began, and now we declare. We rephrase the fact that the following economic model is wrong, that a structural change is essential to giving up the consumer economy model that forces people to live in debt, and that it is correct and necessary to switch to the economic model based on investment, employment and production. Projects aimed at procrastinating the public must be revised, and real projects must be done with joint contributions.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0524par0240	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0522par0241	In a difficult geography of the world, it will be possible for the Turkish nation to live freely and happily under the heavy political conditions of our region to ensure the independence of the state of the Republic of Turkey, to ensure its security, to improve the economy as soon as possible. The government and the Turkish Grand National Assembly, who have claimed political responsibility, must do their part in this matter. Finally, I'd like to remind you of some words from Joseph Has Hadgu Bilig, a prominent Turkish thinker and statesman, who lived in the 10th century, who lived in Karahan state vizier Yusuf Has Hacib. 1) We need a strong army to protect the country. 2) It takes wealth and wealth to feed the army. 3) People need to be rich. 4) There must be right laws and justice. If these are neglected, the state will be dissolved. It has been said in the 10th century. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One more minute, please.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0525par0250	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0522par0251	As the Turkish nation, I salute all of you with the desire and desire to live forever free and happy through all the challenges.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0525par0253	Afyonkarahisar MP Mehmet Taytak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Taytak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0526par0257	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the grant, which may be used if necessary, is Article 5 of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers, under Article 5018 of the Central Management Budget Law, the President is entitled to reserve funds according to the appropriate provisions of the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget to carry out services and purposes specified in the Central Management Budget Law, or to transfer these funds if necessary for unscheduled services in the budgets. Fund transfers between the budgets of the central administration's public administrations are organised under the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 and can be transferred from the budgetary regulations of the Treasury and Finance Ministry budget for the costs required by the budgets of public administration and private budgetary administrations, if it is found to be insufficient. The goal is to keep the services intact. Taking into account the issues under the title of funds that can be used at the time, we split them into four groups -- the allowance for staff costs, the back-up allowance for boosting investments, the allowance for natural disaster costs. The President is authorized to pass on these arrangements. Dear lawmakers, I'm talking about the 5th article of the budget right now. What does this substance mean? It means funds that can be used when needed. Backup funds can be used not only for the establishment of new administrations, but for unforeseen situations, such as natural disasters. It is important to eliminate the victims of natural disasters. However, the damage caused by natural disasters, especially droughts, is not sufficient. Speaking of natural disasters, droughts, hails, disease and pests are considered natural disasters. Dear MPs, our province of Afyonkarahisar is a region with many historical and century-old structures that are wanted for foreign tourists outside the sea, with caves of millions of years, with thermal wealth and beauty of nature, with archaeological ruins that reflect the culture and art of thousands of years of civilizations, with their building, with their crafts, with fairy chimneys, with fairy temples and rich kitchens, and with the potential of tourism, and our province of Afyon is also a very important agricultural city. Afyonkarahisar is the most available place in Turkey for poppy planting. The poppy plant that grows in this province has 12 percent morphine, which is the first in the world. Hashish is for the people of Afyon, for their food, for their oil, for their medicine, for their burning, and for their animals. It is located in Bolvadin district of the alkaloid factory, where modern production is processed with hash gum, the raw ingredient of the pharmaceutical industry. The factory's problems need to be solved, more active. This year the poppy plant produced in Afyonkarahisar has suffered serious losses due to the rains. In particular, the Hashish producers in our districts, Şuhutlı, Kızılören and Hoxhalar, were severely damaged. Sadly, only 4,000 copies of the poppy, which has been planted in the Ark, the Red, and the Hodjas, have been harvested. There is a alarming reduction in water collected in both dams and ponds and in our natural lakes, which is essential for animalism and agricultural production. It is inevitable that there will be irreparable damage if emergency measures are not taken. I've mentioned earlier the problems of Eber Lake within the borders of our province of Afyonkarahisar. Lake Eber faces drought. Right now, our people are still suffering unresolved casualties in that area. Dear MPs, I'd like to talk again about the natural disasters of the year 2018 in Afyonkarahisar. On 14 June 2018, a hailing disaster took place in Şuhut district center, Düzkara, Efe, Jesus and Racing villages. The amount of damage is 5 million 995,600 euros. On 24 July 2018, the flood in the central town of Lights totalled $1,920,000 in damage to the flood disaster. The cost of this damage is 89,829 TL. On 31 July 2018, the flood and flood of the villages of Ihsecond district Yaylatuk and Duzer, Ayazin, Eskieymir and Eynehankuzviran was estimated at 1 million 677,509 TL. On August 7, 2018, the damage was estimated at $750,588 due to the flood and hailing disaster in the Bolvadin district and the Hamidiye village. The total amount of damage was sent as a grant of 1,700,000 TL. The funding has been distributed to the counties according to damage rates, and the application process has reached us as soon as the funding arrives, it is not enough. Dear lawmakers, grants from the budget to highways for road construction in the General Directorate of Highways are becoming more inadequate each year to carry out these investments. There has been no progress in the ongoing road work between our Bolvadin-Chay counties over the past year. All the measurements and studies of the 22km road between the headman-Dinar have been done, and road construction has not begun. In addition, there is no study of the construction of projects, even though our municipality has dedicated spaces and infrastructure to closed gyms, TOKI and hospital investments planned in Basmakcı. The flood protection projects in Afyonkarahisar have yet to reach the tender stage, even though all preparations have been made in 2017. Because of the lack of extremism of floods, our farmers suffer enormous financial damage. The construction of the Kaiyhan Pond in the province of İhsecond has been completed, and the irrigation canals have been tendered in 2017 but have not been conducted. Again, the construction of three bridges, which have been auctioned at Akören Road and Değirmenü, on the way to Ablak, within the borders of our city, has not yet been established. All of our counties have unresolved victims, such sacrifices are essential. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to add something here. Whatever our nation's interests, our nation's interests, we, elected lawmakers of this country, must always put our hands on the stone. What is most important for us is the benefit of our people. In health, in education, in tourism, in all areas, in all matters concerned with our citizens, it is necessary to fulfill their expectations. I don't just speak for Afyonkarahisar; for us, Afyon is one, and Sinop is one, and Kahraman is one. Dear lawmakers don't look at a new administration, when a flood hits a land that's been planted, when a flood comes, whether the grant has been spent on a new administration, if it's been used to an investment, people don't care about it, and it's perfectly normal. The citizen looks at his victims, sees if he can buy diesel for his tractor, see if he can get his fertilizer, see if he can send money to his child, his son, his son, in another city. When victims occur, our first goal should be to address these victims. I'm gonna need a few minutes of your time.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0527par0272	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0526par0273	Emergency damage assessments must be made, speed up the processes, and pay for the damage without dragging our people door-to-door. The state is for the nation, the state is for justice. Only when all the sacrifices are properly resolved can we sleep in peace. With these thoughts and feelings, I wish the 2019 budget to be a blessing, with respect to the General Assembly and the Veterans Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0527par0276	Thank you, Congressman. Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group demanding a speech on the matter. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0528par0281	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's hard not to discuss the relationship between the taxes we pay during budget talks and the people of the Turkish press. So I'd like to talk a little bit about the press and our taxes. In Turkey, the media and the press depend on the runt sectors, such as construction. The country's 40 largest media outlets are controlled by companies operating in construction, energy, mining, tourism, telecommunications, banking and finance outside the media. In the last 16 years, the two-handed media following the Babiali press have been replaced by construction media. So what's going to be on the agenda and what's essentially censored is completely determined by profits, politics, and interests. For example, a ban on publication in the past few weeks, following the work killings of three workers in the construction of the North Marmara Highway, is a part of the confectionary order. And when you look at the press ads, you can only see that the ads are distributed to a certain group of people, and they're going to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and In the huge rant network of power, media bosses also pawned press freedom to AKP in exchange for the parcels they collected. This wheel is actually paid by citizens' taxes. The media, look at most of the tenders the construction bosses have entered, friends, state-certain public-private investments; city hospitals, double roads, HESFFs. Unfortunately, the AKP is building this burden on the media with taxes, and it's doing so by disregarding our right to be informed, by disregarding our freedom of expression. Once upon a time, we said it was the media of Penguen, but now it's all gone. The penguin was built around the media with concrete walls thick with censorship, and now it's called the media, not the "penguen." We, the People's Democratic Party, are trying to do politics under this press embargo. Since March full 2015, yes, no private channel has published HDP group meetings in over three years. Not to mention the so-called public-owned and financing of our tax dollars. The third largest party in this country is forbidden to the public to know what it says, what it promises, and how it is criticized. Now it's not so much. You'll say it. No, that's it, that's it, that's it. Erdoğan was broadcast live nine times a day, for example, not a minute is given to HDP on the news. And if they donate that minute, they spend 40 seconds on antipropaganda. With clear instructions, HDP MPs have been banned from the programmes for two years. We're not even allowed to be attached to the literature, even though we've been publicly lied about it, and we're not allowed to say our value, even though there's been two elections, a referendum, and a third election is coming up, it's clear that there are other instructions to harden this embargo, to deepen the current injustice. Erdogan also said the other day that we won't make noise pollution in the elections, we won't make paper pollution. Okay, when we're able to be equal in the media and media organs, of course we're ready, we have no objection. But how and where are we going to clean up the pollution that you've always created in the press when it's as we speak? I'd really like to ask, if we can't do propaganda like that, where do we do it? I'd like to put the needle in the hands of opposition representatives here, but it's only men because women don't have a place in the media anyway. You guys are still on debate shows, and it's happening right in front of all of you. Not for the HDP, but for the law, the constitution, the freedom of expression. You often prefer to keep quiet. This silence burns us all, my friends. What happens to the press workers when the bosses are lined up like this? Turkey has become the third most journalists in prison, according to the Committee for Protection of Journalists 2018 report. We've had another year without the average number of arrested journalists falling below 150. More than 10,000 journalists in Turkey are already unemployed, while they continue to lose many labor jobs due to the sudden changes in governance and economic difficulties in the media. The journalist Fatih Orange only described the grave painting in the country. I'd like to repeat his questions: let's protest with peaceful action, raises, gas increases. Let's do it, shall we? How many people are gonna walk out in fear, out of fear? How many people would go out to the street, for God's sake? The very next day Erdogan said, "One of the poor men of Edep has come out and invited him to the street. Look at the wicked one." Of course, he did not neglect to instruct and threaten the judiciary. Did you raise your hand yesterday, mandelina or oranges or what? This nation will blow your neck out. Are you satisfied with that language, my friends? Are you really satisfied with this language? Erdogan must say, "I'm sorry, I've overstepped my bounds immediately." People were killed in this country after such talk. It's nobody's place to risk people's lives to win an election. Even responses to the question of the Conqueror Orange have revealed the accuracy of the question and the veracity of the situation, trying to make it a crime to ask, let alone act, can we act? On the other hand, 53 journalists have been sentenced to seventy-five years in prison on charges of defamation of the President, and the number of investigations in the past two years has reached 20,539. But when it comes to the hate speech of the AKP people, it's freedom of expression. Are you guys really happy with that language? You want to live in a country like this? The current political control was obviously not enough, and the presidential decree of the Press Cards has been changed with the presidential PKKs. From now on, the determination of journalists to carry yellow press cards is now entirely under the control of the presidency. Just when you think about the number of cases filed against the President, soon there will be no journalists with a yellow press card. We were on Mr. Demirtaş's case the other day, and the judge said the press desks were empty, almost empty, the yellow press cards could sit there. Is there really a yellow press card journalist left in the country? You didn't leave this either. On top of that, antidemocratic efforts to limit the Internet. Yes, this extraordinary pressure on the media is reflected on the citizens. Citizens are afraid to share their views, to criticize. A study by Oxford University shows that 65 per cent of Turkish researchers are reluctant to express their political views on the Internet in order to avoid problems with officials. Dear friends, a judicial order where journalism is a crime must end. Turkey does not need new bans, it needs to prevent freedom of press and expression from being limited. The commission for the press card should be made up of press trade organisations, as in many countries. However, I would like to point out that even when the painting is so dark, many press workers and alternative media agencies continue to defend their right to information, defend press freedom, and I would like to thank them, in your presence. There are Parliamentary reporters who have been able to enter our dining hall for sixty years, for sixty years. And these friends of ours can't come into our dining room today. Why? Are we too privileged? Why can't they get in? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0529par0293	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0528par0294	Look, guys, not even September 12th, not even September 12th. They didn't get into the lobby for only 20 days, and then the lawmakers gave up this time because they were filling their rooms. Now, Parliamentary correspondents -- a total of 30 to 40 Parliamentary correspondents -- you've scored about 600, who's going to find 600 Parliamentary reporters who've lost, and we're going to find them? - he can't get into the dining room. In this Parliament, if it's not after twelve o'clock, the people who work here the next day can't be off duty; if it's not after nine o'clock, they can't get up and use service. He can't sew up style, and he'll tear it up even worse. We're in a Parliament. We have to solve these problems. Administrators need to deal with these problems immediately and end this unfair attitude. I'll finish with a French word to spite Mr. Cahit Özkan. [[x]] My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0530par0300	On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Bursa MP Lale Karbüyük seeks to speak on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Carabinieri. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0531par0304	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 5th Amendment of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute the High Council. First of all, I'd like to express my findings on the matter. In particular, the authority under the heading "Employment to Speed Up" in Article 3 of Article 5 has been widely exploited recently. He can't really answer a lot of questions here. For example, we don't know the cost of most investments. We can't see clearly how much funding is available to these investments. I mean, there's a lot of stuff going on here that doesn't go according to budget. On the other hand, you brought a new bag of laws. I'm referring to it because it's relevant. Article 48 of this law gives the President the authority to grant assistance to municipalities from the budget of the Presidency's Strategy and Budget Presidency, under the implementation of investment-qualified projects. This issue, which centralises authority, paves the way for the transfer of funds to the municipality he wants with that authority, and can also be used as an election investment before the election, and will lead to unfair competition is on the agenda. In addition, when the Court of Ministers reports are examined, it can only be explained through political discrimination, inequality and injustice of public investments by investing in AKP-based municipalities without a central management budget, without even a decision from the Council of Ministers. The government, which cannot manage the economy and works for the interest lobby, is, unfortunately, using all its possibilities to discriminate and remain in power and reflect. Why did I say the power that can't manage economics? Precious representatives, Turkey faces a difficult financial picture. One of the most important problems is open. Cari is a clear sign of loss in foreign economic relations, a sign of loss in foreign economic relations. In that case, I'm afraid we're going to have to hand over the foreign debt and the hot money. So we say to strangers, "Come, take our treasure paper, give us money. We have to, we need you. Don't go, we'll give you the highest interest. We say, "We save the day with the money that comes in, I don't say it's a financial deficit, it's not just a corrupt situation, and we keep this vicious cycle going." That's the fact that, unfortunately, from 2003 to the end of 2018, as of October, I'm taking, of course, the valued representatives, in 16 years, your power has yielded $600 billion. That's a terrible number. Why? Because the economy is not well managed. Why? Because Turkey is dependent on the intermediary and raw materials used in production. And why? Because you couldn't build a right growth policy based on exports, or rather, you didn't even work on it. As a result, Turkey has become a country that pays more and more foreign debt every day. Turkey is using and supplying import entries in production by taking foreign loans and buying foreign loans at 7 per cent, which unfortunately cannot be solved. The problem is unresolved, but the current situation cannot be protected. Last year, $97.1 billion in debt interest was paid, with an increase of over 40 billion dollars and so on, paying $117 billion in interest. That's where the word ends. Now, I'd like to talk to you about something else: you say: "Give up the dollar." Okay, that's right. We're counting on Turkish lira. Don't you? We do. Why, in a dilemma, did you take out a currency-indicated bond? What kind of a subject is this, what kind of strong contradiction? Why don't you trust us? Why did you issue foreign currency-indicated bonds to the local investor, to our citizen, to the currency-indicted bonds? There's another question. You pay 7.5 percent interest for this bond to the stranger, so why are you paying the local investor, your own citizen 4%? I'm sorry, but the question is, do you work for your own citizen, or do you work for the interest lobby? [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear Regents, what problem is Turkey's 2019 budget solving? We have 1,800,000 citizens with less than minimum wage in this country. The public's debt, unfortunately, has increased 80 times in your power, the trust in the judiciary has been reduced to 30 percent, and as long as everything is made to look good, there is no solution to the problems. You can't grow national income, you can't grow national income, you change computational methods, which didn't happen, and it's shrinking again. You've changed the M.O., eliminated the possibility of comparison, comparison. Inflation, 25 percent, unemployment, industrial production, narrowed down. What we haven't understood in 16 years is that no one held your hand, you got what you wanted, you sold what you wanted, you privatized what you wanted, you were in charge. Now the outside forces, the outside waves... well, if you'd managed the economy well for 16 years and protected it from external risks, if you'd created a strong economy, those external waves would have gone boom, but you couldn't do that, you made it more risky every day, you increased the risk premium of the country. There's one thing that's changed in 16 years of AKP power, the public sector's debt burden has shifted over private sector companies and citizens. Before, the public had debt, and now, in a slightly different way, the burden of debt has been transferred to private sector companies and households. As I've just said, the debt of a citizen in your power has increased 80fold. On the other hand, we'll build the bridge, we'll build the road." You're saying, yeah, do it, but make it on your own income. It's never the right way to invest by hand money, to sell assets, to lend money to the future. If you look at the treasury guarantees, they've increased by four times in the last ten years. One more thing on the agenda: the Entity Fund. This fund, the Entity Fund, is actually a new name, another name for a new way of borrowing an external loan. Dear Regents, the Fund of Property exists in other countries, but in other countries, it's built to add wealth to financial wealth, which is what it's used to do. Unfortunately, it's used to convert and fold foreign debt and repay new debts. So if there's nothing left, look, we've got these, so let's give you these in return, lend us some money in return, because we're looking for a side loan. We have another problem: clear error pen. Yeah, well, the payments are part of the balance sheet, which is clearly missing. There are all countries, but in the ten-month period, more than two-thirds of the current deficit is funded by an unregistered exchange entry shown in the net error pen. This entrance has already led to the fall of the courtship. Dear Regents, there's a clear error pen in every country, but this foreign currency entry, where it comes from, doesn't exist in this rate and so many other countries in the world. As a result, valuable representatives, there's interest in this budget, there's injustice in this budget. This budget doesn't see the poor, the poor, the unemployed, the unemployed. This budget does not see the job seeker, the disabled, the father who cannot provide allowance for his child. This budget was built for the runners, the loan sharks and the palace. That's why we never accept this budget, and we can't put it on our conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0532par0319	Elazığ MP Sermin Balşı who asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Fish. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0533par0323	Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the 5th article of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] One of the greatest services we've done in our 17 years of power is no doubt the change and transformation we've made in health. One of the best areas we've ever described this is our city hospitals. One of the six great city hospitals in our country was built in my city, the holy city of Elazig. Our city hospital, which bears the name of our hero martyr, Fethi Seki, was 1,038 beds, and two helicopters were the size of ambulances and cost 600 million euros. Together with our Martyr Fethi Sei City Hospital, we not only serve Elazığ (Elazig) in healthcare, but also serve the surrounding provinces to make our Elazığ a hospital city and a hospital campus. We're also bringing health care to our counties, along with the 50-bed Karakoçan State Hospital, 25-bed Mine State Hospital, 10-bed Baskil Integration County Hospital. And yet, at the same time, our contracts and constructions in our counties continue in the field of health. One of the most important areas of our government is no doubt our young people. With special encouragement and support for our young ones, we prepare our young ones for both business and future. Again, we said that our young people are important to us, that they should be chosen at the age they choose. Today, under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Turkey's youngest lawmakers perform this honorable task on behalf of their peers. Yes, we say we're providing new opportunities for our young people, and we've opened up educational areas in this area. We are also doing one of the first role models in Turkey in Elazığ, which is also my city. The Silk Road International Centre for Children and Youth is being built in Elazıg, our beloved city. The cost of the project is nearly $25 million and 80 per cent. The target mass of this project is our children and young people between the ages of 7 and 29. Here, while raising our young people in domestic and national production, there will also be an enormous facility where they can perform cultural, art and sports activities together, and it will also be a role model for Europe, perhaps along with this educational centre, Elazığ. Again, our Harput is a cultural heritage of Turkey, not just of Elazığ, but of Turkey. Our work, which was launched last February to include Harput (E.S.O.) in the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List, yielded results, and Harput was included in the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage Interim List. In accordance with the spiritual structure of our Harput, the Harput Dianet Islamic Covenant, which is to be done in accordance with its culture, has also been given a tender and a location. Again, this will cost 60 million euros, and at the same time, there will be an area where 200 students can study, not only nationally, but also internationally. However, we plan to establish a training centre where our religious and cultural religious leaders will grow up to be very suitable for our Elazig, and for our Harput. The construction of our Hamza Bey Dam, which will meet the need for 30, 40 years of drinking water, has been completed by 96 per cent, and has been spent $86m. Again, our South Environment Road cost 145 million TL, and our Northern Environment Road cost 14km and 100m TL. Along with these, we have solved the traffic problem in Elazıg, our province's transportation network in a double way. Again, the bridge of the network, which had been on our agenda for many years, which the previous authorities could not finish, was launched in 2016, and the total cost was 94 million TL.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0534par0334	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0533par0335	Of course, we have more services to tell, but time is short. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, today is also World Immigration Day. Our country is the largest refugee country in the world, with the qualifications of its ancestors. I wish that all mankind, on World Day of Migrants, would act with conscience and mercy, so that I would never see the dead body of a young boy who washed up on the shore again, the consciences and the visions of mankind dying. I wish our cities, our country, and our people that our budget of 2019 would be good, and I salute our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0535par0339	Ankara MP Servet Üssal has asked for a personal word on the matter. Here you go, Mr. Unisal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0342	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. Friends, life lives forward, but it can also be understood backwards. I'm gonna take you back a little bit in that sense.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0537par0345	Teacher, don't take it back, we're a progressive party.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0346	But before that, of course, I would like to read you a poem about an Anadolic mosaic and a mosaic that unites us all -- one of the mental poets of the past, especially the separation of Parliament and our country, for division. It's a very meaningful poem. Hudai Baba of Maraş. Our Marasian MPs know. From spring without benefits, from summer The winter of the great mountain head is acceptable. The conversation of the ignorant, the word. The dream of the master is acceptable. From the cream of the names, from the honey of the names. Merdin, dry vaccins are okay. Hudai speaks a fine language What does he know if he's out of his league? Without knowledge, without manners, without emotion The gravestone of the dead is acceptable. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, I don't mean that the situation our country has fallen into is a political thing because we all have a sky above us, and when that sky falls down, it doesn't separate any of us.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0538par0361	God forbid.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0362	In that sense, I'd like to sum up the situation for you. Guys, there was a train accident a few days ago. I've got a hospital, I've been there, and I'm one of the first ones in the morning. It's a real pain in the ass. There have been 14 accidents in about 60 years from 1945 to 2002, eight accidents after 2002. There's an increase. I want you to consider this, my dear friends. But let me give you some technical information. Guys, we have about 17,000 kilometers of rail systems. There's signaling on alone and only 4,000 kilometers of this. I'm a child of a village that passes by a train, I know the scissors very well, I know the controller. Friends, we were together that day when a friend of ours, a minister, said, "Sinialization is not important." I mean, I'm sorry to hear that. On behalf of a truly unfortunate minister. I'm just saying, my friend, I think it'll make up for his mistake. In that sense, I'm telling you, let's discuss some things together about this crisis in the country. Now, of course, our country has had crises, my friends. The previous crisis was moving from government to private companies, today's crisis -- a little bit more formatd -- from private companies to state. There's bankruptcy right now, there's concordatoes, there's trouble. The citizens began to be directly affected. Unemployment has increased rapidly. So in the process, we all have to find a solution. I'll tell you that solution in a little while. But now that we're all in this country, has our prosperity increased? No. Have we increased our income levels?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0539par0368	No.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0369	Is our hope growing?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0539par0370	No.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0371	Yeah. Have our happiness increased?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0539par0372	No.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0536par0373	There's only one thing that's growing: complaints, friends, complaints.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0539par0374	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0540par0375	Teacher, when did you open the hospital?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0541par0376	When did you open the hospital?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0377	It's been thirty-seven years.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0540par0378	But you've improved, haven't you?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0379	There's one more thing, but friends...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0540par0380	I'm sure your bed count's up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0543par0381	Surely you have an agreement with the SGK?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0382	We'll talk... we'll talk about it all.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0540par0383	The number of beds has increased.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0384	No, it didn't. I swear I can't get money from the SGK.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0544par0386	You guys have a deal, but look...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0545par0387	Congressman, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0388	My dear friends, there's something growing. Husband and wife quarrels increased, neighbor fights increased (Applause from CHP rows) and the number of courts increased. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The check bond case is up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0546par0391	CHP's vote has not increased.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0542par0392	Guys, we're talking about a budget now, right? I mean, it's a lesson, so...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0547par0393	Congressman, I'll give you time to wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0548par0394	It's just beginning...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0549par0395	How's he gonna pull it together? He did.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0396	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear friends, my friends, of course we're discussing the budget. Is the budget's income the same? There's an opening, isn't there? I'm a businessman, and if there's an opening in a business, it's called a twist, it's costing the budget. I'm a businessman, if there's an opening, it's called harm; it's Turkish. That's the budget deficit for him, that's, that's not necessary.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0551par0398	Is there any harm in your business?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0399	We're in harm's way, friends, we're in harm's way as a country. There's 861 billion budgets, 117 billion interest, 240 billion payments, 300 billion salaries; what's left? There's nothing left. That's the kind of budget we're in. [[Applause from CHP rows]] A newborn child is born in debt of $7.404. Friends, of course, interest in Turkey is a serious problem. We were seven and a half when the dollar was three and a half, but it fell to five and a half, and we started to rejoice. What are we happy about? That's 24 percent interest, guys. The interest naturally affected it. In that sense...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0552par0403	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0405	Mr. President, it's the end. Do something.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0553par0406	5,35; not 5.5.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0407	Yeah, yeah. Now, that's what's happening here, folks. I also listen to the members of the group, my dear friends, my friends, the problem of the Beka when something happens. You didn't get the vote, we've been here for sixteen years.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0554par0409	Teacher, why didn't you take it?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0410	He doesn't solve everything. You call it outside forces, does it solve the beka problem? It doesn't. For him, my dear friends, let's not dwell on this. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, of course, what I'd like to say is, if the budget's open, we're not getting along, pal.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0555par0413	You do the budget. Why can't you do it?
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0414	If the government doesn't come together, how does a citizen end up together? [[Applause from CHP rows]] I mean, I wanted to have a nice chat with you, my dear friends, but remember, off the record...
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0556par0418	You two are coming together.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0419	Our president has a saying, new, that we will take new measures for non-registerment.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0556par0420	He's right.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0550par0421	Of course he's right. If it happens 16 years later, that patient dies of cancer. He died of cancer. Guys, thank you so much for listening to me.
tbmm-2018-12-18sit05spe0557par0424	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Well, thank you, Congressman. No questions, no answers. Talks on Article 5 have been completed. I submit the Fifth Amendment to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Congressmans, today's talks have been completed according to our schedule. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (December 19th 2018) at 11 p.m. on Wednesday (December 2018) to discuss the 6th and 14th Articles of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal, respectively, according to the programme. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
