tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first non-responsive statement belongs to Heromarash MP Fahrettin Oğuz Tor, who wants to talk about the historical, tourist and cultural values of Kahramanmarash. Here you go, Mr. Tor. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Now, it's going to be a little difficult to explain Marash in five minutes, but you try to fit it in five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are this week's Senior Week. Because of Old People's Week, knowing that's where we're all going, I pay tribute to all of our elders, I kiss them with respect, I celebrate their weeks. Dear MPs, I'd like to talk to you today about our heromarash, who has hosted many civilizations on the historic Silk and Spice Roads, and the natural beauty of tourism and culture. I hereby salute you and our fellow citizens with respect and love. From Adana to Diyarbakir-Mardin, to Malatya, to the direction of Kaiseri, to Van, if our citizens spend a few hours making a half moon, they will recognize the people of our host, smiling, rich heromarash, and will see their glorious nature, historical, tourist and cultural works, and will not have come to this beautiful land before.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0003par0015	Mr. President, we can't hear the preacher.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0004par0016	Congressmans, let's stop humming, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0002par0017	Countless historical and great mosques, inn, baths; healing thermals, drinking; Adanan, Ottomanian, Antalyan's bows and mosques; numerous cool plateaus; wild animals and countless bird species; Binboğa, Bertiz The land of the hundreds of heroes I can't name. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, the honorable citizens; of course, the boot soup is made in many parts of our beautiful country. I'm betting there's no place better off than Marash. Just to drink one head off, you have to come to our heromarash from the black place. Of course, our ice cream is worldwide; we have peppers, snacks, and soup-based tarhana; Mahrabes, Bubbles, rooster hearts, mule nail grapes, foam sausages, brown sausages, samosas that we print. Bring me grapes by Abdulhamit Khan, and bring him from Marash. Those who will not pass without the taste of the Bertiz grape he calls. If you want to see the Elbistan Pınarbaş, the capital of the Elbhan River with 12 dams on it, the Meryeli Yaylaı, the Binbukırı Yaylaı, the steep Ali Rock in Ceyhan Valley, the magnificent Cöngel Caves, the Green Eye Obdü, the famous Andira with its castles, we call it Kahraramarash. You want to eat a drooling apple? Here you go, Skysun. You want to drink bitter water? Here's to Ekinöze. Do you like nuts to keep the flavor on your palate? Here's a waterfall. You like fish? Here you go, Nurhak. Sisters, crown your dowry with its famous Maraş burma, and we say to you at your wedding, wear the marash-silver velvet dress. The great man of the trial, the poet, the man of suffering, the man of the people, the mehmethim, rejoice at the beginning, the beginning, the beginning, the beginning, the end, the joy of our death, the hope that we shall return home, the bump of this wheel/ Tomorrow ours, ours, ours, ours, ours, ours, ours, the day's, the day's, ours. They say, Necip Fazil Shortcurekin; the man of the lamp, who sees the flame worse than death; the great master of the poem of love, the desert and separation, the Abdurrahim Karakoç; here I am going to ours, the man of the great poet of the world. What do you want to see? Here you go, Maras. If you call it faith tourism, it's the first place you'll go, Kahramanmarash. Do you want to see Ashab's Ashab, a sacred and important place of faith in the Semavian religions? Here you go, Afshin. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0005par0025	Please let's finish. Here you go, Mr. Tor.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0002par0027	Do you want to see the historical ruins of the Assyrians, Persians, Macedonians, and Kommagene Kingdom, Emevis, Abbasi, Seljucians, Memliks, the great Ottomans? Here's to Kahramanmarash. If you want to see the ruins of Germenicia Ancient City, the magnificent mosaics that have yet to emerge, we call them Kahramanmarash. Would you like to see Turkey's third large closed market, the benderten of three large closed markets, which is one of the earliest examples of the Ottoman closed markets in the center of Kahramanmarash province, where they point out with a prayer dome in the middle? Take your food from the closed market, and buy handmade crates of walnuts, and buy copper ornaments. I invite you to the city of the waters, the valleys, the rivers, the mountains, the forests, the dams, the history, the culture, the tourism, the city of peace, and the city of abundance. Yours truly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0006par0033	We accept this as an invitation, as all lawmakers.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0002par0034	We're waiting, Mr. President, I hope so.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0006par0035	It'll cost you a little too much, but it'll suit you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0002par0036	Well, the Marasian is generous.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0006par0037	Thank you, Mr. Tor. Now the second word outside the agenda belongs to Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport's İzmir MP Ali Yiğit. Mr. Hero, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0007par0042	Mr. President, my dear friends, after our MP, I was born in a mountain village in the Binboğa Mountains. My heart ached when I said "Binbana." But today I will try to tell you about İzmir, not Maraş, but Binboğa, because I am an İzmir MP and I live in İzmir, and I love İzmir. It's not where we were born, it's where we're fed. (HPP cheers) I'm full of it, I love it there. My respects to all of you. Dear friends, from the past to today, Izmir has hosted various cultures, civilizations, and has been the centre of economics, industry, trade in almost every period. Of course, it also plays a role in the geographical position of Izmir (Izmir), the sea, the sand, the thermali, and the brotherhood of different cultures. With these advantages, today Izmir is one of the most important trade centers, not only in the region, but in our country. In 2017, according to official figures, customs contributed 12.5 per cent to our exports. The total exports of our country are divided into cities, and we are ranked fourth after Istanbul, Kopeeli and Bursa. In addition to the potential of agriculture, industry, tourism and trade, İzmir, one of the port cities that opens up to the Mediterranean, will become fully operational not only through the sea, but through the air, it will increase, and will contribute greatly to our economy. For this reason, I appreciate the investments at Adnan Menderes Airport. The Adnan Menderes Airport, which, with the ongoing investments, is awarded for its energy and environmentally friendly designs, is a huge gain, not only for Izmir, but also for our country, with its capacity to transport internal and external passengers, its apronu and roads, the CIP and VIP halls. As politicians, we must do our part and take steps by transforming these investments into economics, health, tourism, trade, and quickly live up to the full capacity of Adnan Menderes Airport. If we want to be rewarded for the investments, if we want all the hard work and money spent to go to waste, we have to think carefully and strategically. In this direction, that Izmir is a second transit centre after İstanbul, and that Adnan Menderes Airport is on direct flights for AKPli, CHPli, MPPLli, who live in İzmir, without saying, and earns his bread in İzmir, because Turkey will win because İzmir has won. Any investment in Izmir will be brought to the country, not just to the region. We, Republican People's Party MPs, raised the issue at various times in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, submitted motions, made initiatives. In fact, before us, in 2012, when Izmir's businessmen came here and met with the current Prime Minister of Transport of that day, the Prime Minister said: "Our goal in building the new airport is to make Izmir (Izmir) the second transfer centre. Therefore, I support this idea, but it has never been done. All of these initiatives have been told that as a result of these talks, there will be a separate study of Izmir (Izmir) each time, and it will be made more active by flights abroad, but despite all of this, there has been no step taken. My fellow lawmakers, Adnan Menderes Airport, despite all the investments that have been made and continued, are still operating at the drop capacity. The airport, which has a capacity of 30 million a year, carries about one-third of its passengers - 10 to 12 million passengers. Istanbul has filled its capacity for air travel with 2 airports. As a matter of fact, the third airport, which continues to build, aims to reduce the concentration of air traffic in Istanbul. But Izmir is standing by with its infrastructure. Direct flights to İzmir, or flights to İzmir, will turn health tourism into a different attraction and attraction in terms of investments. In this case, we must speed up our work, especially the direct flights, to make Izmir Adnan Menderes Airport the second transit centre in Turkey. This will contribute greatly to both trade and tourism and the country's economy. I present the matter to the government's discretion. And I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0008par0051	Thank you, Mr. Hero. The third unscheduled statement belongs to Manisa MP Selçuk Özdağ, who wants to discuss the nine-year anniversary of the death of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the former leader of the Great Union Party. Mr. Özdağ, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0009par0056	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on March 25, 2009 to mark the 9th year of Muhsin Yazıoğlu's march to Hakk. I salute your high council. We lost Muhsin Yazıoğlu nine years ago. After his death, a lot of things were written, a lot of things said. The millions gathered at his funeral showed that the field of influence and love was far beyond the limits of his party. Years passed, but it was not forgotten, but I can't help but say that he appears to be a more wanted, more missed politician every day. It's the scars that make people live. Politicians, in particular, need to understand the marks left by Yazbioğlu, who are so beloved. He always acted like one of the people. He was open to criticism, so he could smile even in the face of the harshest critics. He showed a transparent and democratic attitude in his personal life as well as in his political life. He did politics as a nation's servant, not as a trade. He sent them all to Chechnya to Cevher Dudayev, without leaving a penny of his party's money, while its heaters were not on fire. His heart was beating in Bosnia, in Azerbaijan, in Chechnya, in Cyprus, in the Balkans. In support of Turkey's terrorist campaign, allies sought in northern Iraq. He did politics by worrying about people's problems. On February 28th, he was one of the few politicians who didn't shut up, didn't bow down, didn't compromise their measurements. Turkey will be Iran; Turkey will be Algeria; Turkey will not be Algeria; Turkey will not be Iran; Turkey will not be Syria, but Turkey will not be Syria. He was brave enough to say. His words to Turkey will not be Syria. His words were a serious warning against February 28th and an important opportunity for national forces to awaken. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was a good statesman and a good believer. If you were a snowflake, where would you want to fall? He only complains to God what is for Him. He didn't measure success in politics by numbers; for him, he never cared how many people were behind him. The poem he wrote in prison, which gave us all a cold, was perhaps a blessing of the sad ending that fell into his pure, clean soul. He wasn't the only one who was cold when his helicopter fell in the waterfall, we were all cold. It was the funeral of every mother's child when she was alive, and every house when she died. It was deeply upsetting to all of us that such a brave, primitive politician had left us early in the day. Congressmans, Mr. Yazbioğlu has never sought allies from outside. He'll take the easy way out, but he didn't want any of the ways or methods to take him prisoner. He always held his soul back from the interests of his people. It was one of the cleanest faces of politics. So he had friends from all around him, and he had lovers. He was the apocalypse of our time. On February 28th, Hasan Celal Güçül and Muhsin Yazıoğlu were the head of those who challenged the people who wanted to put up a mortgage on their will. Today, Tank Hassan also hinted at the eternal world. I hope they become neighbors of our Prophet. Some people we can only appreciate in their absence. He was part of a hero's age. Congressmans, the President of Mohsin was one of those who loved our nation's cultural roots. We don't have enough words in our dictionaries to express his great patriotism. But some people tried to make our country a prison for him. Because of his qualities, they persecuted him, put him through a lot of suffering. After crushing him five and a half years in a 8 - square - square - foot cell in the Mamak dungeons, they decided he would be acquitted after seven and a half years of freedom. The saint's body was removed with the presence of millions and a single voice. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was not to be counted but to be weighed, if he had a scale of what is called the original weight. Congressmans, love is not a metal, another element, another chemistry, an object that is always translated into the language of politics; the vote bond is difficult but it exists and it is valuable. Muhsin Yazıoğlu was ranked first among those they considered equal to him until the time he walked to Hakkk, starting as chairman of the January High School. His party didn't have a major election success, but he was always present and valuable. That party was as precious as gold to the nation's stand by the law in the days of the harsh crisis, which he wished, even though its glorious political institutions and politicians were torn apart, if I were to disappear into the ground. On February 28th, Muhsin Yazıoğlu and his friends looked at the rulers of the era with their buttoned shirts unbuttoned to their breasts. Wait a minute, we don't agree with what you say. They were brave men and men. He didn't like the politics that separate society. When he left, it was because of his ability to touch the coffin of every human being. His friendship, his friendship, was of great value. Congressmans, those who knew him knew that he was the most to talk about in the matter of state and nation. For him, anyone with national reflexes would run to him. There are glad tidings and conciliation in the two worlds. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Suddenly he's gone, but he's always lived, he'll live. People don't live as long as they live, they live as long as they remember. If Mr. President will excuse me, if he gives me another thirty seconds, I'd like to get it over with.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0010par0072	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0009par0073	Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu had dreams; he had dreams in Turkey, and Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu had dreams in Turkey. During his high school years, he walked five kilometers from the village of Elmah to Songşah. They were five friends, one day they were going to build a Bozkurt farm; one was going to be a doctor, one was going to be a vet, one was going to be an agricultural engineer, one was going to be a geology engineer, one was going to be a teacher. Muhsin Yazıoğlu Sivas won the university as the first. He was going to write about medicine, he didn't write about it; a year ago, someone wrote about medicine, and veterinary medicine fell into him. They have also fulfilled their dreams, but Muhsin Yazıoğlu was unable to fulfill his great dream of Turkey. Hopefully, this Parliament and the beloved Turkish Nation will fulfill its dream of great Turkey and free Turkey. I wish him mercy, God rest his soul. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0011par0077	Thank you. Congressmans, in honor of the death anniversary of Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the late President of the Grand Union Party, we, once again, remember him with mercy, gratitude, gratitude; he is a worthy statesman, a politician. Again, as of yesterday, we have buried the great politician and statesman Hasan Celal Bella, who closed his eyes to life, who died, who opposed coups and injustices, and who has always stood by his nation, and who, as of this day, held his place in heaven. I ask for God's mercy, my condolences to all his family and to our nation. Members of parliament, as of yesterday, we have entered the three months of the holy month, which is also the harbinger of Ramadan, the sultan of 11 months. So, Lord, in the honor of these months, I hope that we will all do our duty as good servants and do good deeds, and I congratulate you on your three months. Two days ago, March 18 was the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. Our beloved nation cried out to the entire jihan, saying, "How to defend the blessed land of the land, when it is necessary, and not to leave it until the last drop of blood." By coming from every square inch of the land of Asia Minor, the child, the song, the garden, and the land, the last fort is in place, shoulder to shoulder against seven heifers in Çanakkale, in the prayers of the nation, whose faith, determination, and determination have defended its chest with heroic determination. Each one of them lives as a mehmoth, by the names of our hearts. Again, their descendants, with the same spirit and determination, are now in and out of control of their nation, their flag, their country, and their state, in and out, in Cerablus, Africa, and in many places, a great battle, a heroic struggle. On this occasion, I once again remember our saintly martyrs who have arrived at the martyrdom by protecting their sacred homeland with their lives, with gratitude and mercy. I wish health and peace to our veterans and relatives with my best feelings. Now, lawmakers, I'm going to make a commitment to the 15 members of parliament entering the system for one minute on the basis of the Internal Charter 60. Mr. Gürer, we'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0012par0091	Thank you, Mr. President. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, public social facilities employees, different KSCE employees, Machine and Chemicals employees, County Bank employees, PTK employees, private security workers, municipal employees, and executive executives. They're very upset about the victims of subcontractor practice. Big enough to affect business peace and efficiency. Segregation is everywhere. As the minister said, not all subcontractors were recruited, but the ones who needed to be taken are out of the cast. The subcontractor app would have ended, unfortunately in our country the subcontractor became a bigger problem. In the same place, there were those who were hired with two different tenders who were taken out of the cast, and there were major casualties. My appeal to the government is that all subcontractors must be removed altogether, and all subcontractors must be recruited; in this sense the workers must not suffer, this must be ended in favour of the workers, the subcontractors must be terminated. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0013par0095	Mr. Green instead of Mr. Pineak...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0014par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. March 22, 2018, World Water Day. State Waterworks has prepared a 50-year master plan for a joint group of two Americans and one Turkish firm, covering Ankara's 1970-2020s. I'm asking Mr. Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs: 1) Has the study of the proposed water master plan project been revised by the work of Ankara's urban master plan, with estimates of 2038 populations and land use? 2) Do you have 2038 projections, innovation, a new plan under the Ankara water master plan? 3) What is the rate of hail in the dams that water Ankara province? What measures have been taken against a shortage of water in Ankara next summer? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0015par0104	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0016par0106	Thank you, Mr. President. The AIR-SEN is making serious warnings about the working conditions in Turkish Airlines. Pilots had to rest on the seventh day, working six days earlier. Later, Civil Aviation came up with a new directive. In this directive, a hundred and forty-four hours uninterrupted can be put to work. It says, "It will take twelve days." So 12 days in a row, pilots can get overtime. They say there are pilots in the air who faint or fall asleep. These are very scary situations. I request the Ministry of Transport immediately to improve the working conditions of the pilots and ensure the necessary security of air transport. I demand that this be done immediately, without any accidents or bad consequences. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0017par0110	Mr. Engin...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0018par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. The AKP maintains its philosophy and sense of service, separatist and aberrant governance. Our country has never experienced a partisan power as much as the AKP in every aspect of life. Here's the last example: the appointed mayor of İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality, the first priority in the subway will be where we get the most votes. He said, "Hopefully, we'll get the most votes." The AKP, who polls every day, has obviously caught fire in its skirts. Now that they know they're going to lose the election in spite of all the polling games, they're going to give the Istanbulians a hard-on and call it no vote, no service. The Istanbulians will never submit to this blackmail, they will respond in the polls with an Ottoman slap on the chest, which will be heard in the election by the separatist and partisan mentality from seven ducats.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0019par0116	Mr. Dogan instead of Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0020par0118	Mr. President, the largest European cultural heritage programme in Europe was adopted by the world's second largest wood structure, the Greek Orphanage, Europa Nostra and the European Investment Bank on March 15th. The removal of the building, which was used as an orphanage until 1964, under the European Court of Human Rights ruling, was a positive development in the right to property in the Greek community, but the fact that the building was not protected in any way during the years has raised the danger of collapse today. The building in Greatland is a great cultural wealth of our country. This cultural wealth, as Mr. Patriarch Bartholomew put it, does not belong to a single ethnic group, it belongs to all mankind and the world culture. First and immediately, we urge our Ministry of Culture to put this cultural heritage under immediate protection so that it doesn't collapse, and then to support its restoration with a project that will then benefit the entire community. This will also contribute greatly to tourism in both Istanbul and the Islander district. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0019par0120	Mr. Özdish...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0021par0122	Thank you, Mr. President. My questions are for Mr. Ahmet Demircana, Minister of Health: I just got word from Adana Balcani Hospital that for the past two months, dipriidamol heart synthography has been failing due to lack of medication. Another six months, it is said that the drug will not come, so the heart synthography will not be able to be taken. Also, the substance used in rheumatology was not available because there was no drug, which was made of methotrexate. I ask the AKP, who claims to have revolutionized health: Why can't the drugs be found? In addition, the citizen is in revolt in Adana's Heart. They're also asking about Kalbir State Hospital, which has been destroyed and will be replaced by a hospital, but has not improved in years. Do you have any comment on that, Mr. Secretary? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0022par0127	Mr. Benli...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0023par0129	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, we regret the loss of Hasan Celal Bella, a very important value of our country, who has never given up its values, no matter what the circumstances. Hasan Celal Güzel was a man of the court who could press charges with five folders five months after the National Security Board's verdicts, despite the conditions of February 28th postmodern coup. The brave die once, and the cowards every day. We will never forget the promise of Hassan Celal. Because she was a beautiful person, like her last name, and she left a beautiful legacy to Turkey. We will remember you with mercy and grace. God rest his soul.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0022par0131	Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0024par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Between 2016-2018, a total of 829,158 incidents occurred in Istanbul, particularly in law enforcement, terrorism, narcotics and organised crime; 341,000 of these cases were on charges of law enforcement and 20,000 were on charges of narcotics and 690. By 2017, the number of crimes committed in Istanbul rose to a record level of 61 thousand compared to the previous year. In particular, we see a huge increase in narcotics and trafficking. Drug use has spread from parks to schools, streets to homes to a wide network. Unfortunately, Istanbul, a cradle of civilizations, is becoming a crime scene. The growing crowd also stimulates feelings of anger and hostility as it triggers disappointments in people. I'm calling from here to the government: a commission must be set up to investigate the reasons for the increasing crime incidents in Istanbul and to uncover the focal points behind it. Or we'll question the humanity that burns us almost every day. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0025par0136	Mr. Yalcinkaya...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0026par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. An Imams meeting was held by Ulus Muftilik in Bartın Province on February 21st, where Bartin's National Education Director Yaşar Demir attended the meeting. In his speech at the meeting, he stated that when he visited the schools, he was angry when he saw the students with their heads open and he was brushing off school principals about closing their heads. This person, who lacks secular, contemporary, and scientific education, is in a manner that is unbecoming to an executive, as it is understood by his words and practices. He cannot operate because of his previous irregularities in his duties. Despite his decision, he is still in charge of the National Board of Education. A person whose attitude and actions have led to hatred, hatred, and hostility should be immediately investigated and removed from office.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0025par0141	Mr. Flagtutan...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0027par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Georgia and Turkey are two friendly countries next door to each other. An important door from the border crossings of the two countries is the Sarp Border Gate. The government of Georgia -- published by the Prime Minister on March 15, 2018 -- stopped importing potatoes from Turkey until June 1, 2018. I'm asking you now: I demand that the government make the necessary attempt on this matter. Why? Because there are now dozens of trucks waiting at the border crossing, and truck drivers are heavily victimized. Therefore, by making necessary attempts in the eyes of the government of Georgia to revisit this decision on the stopping of the import of potatoes and to be given the necessary orders to address these victims, once again from the Supreme Parliament to show the government's sensitivity in this matter...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0025par0146	Mr. Durmusoglu instead of Mr. Taskın...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0028par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 58th day of Operation Olive Branch, which was launched on January 20th, our armed forces and the Free Syrian Army took control of Afrin (Afrin) with Allah's permission. 3,600 terrorists have been neutralized as part of the operation. The treacherous plans of those who seek to make Afrin a new Kandil have been eliminated by this action. Our fight against terrorism will continue until the terrorist corridor that threatens our country is wiped out completely. On the 103rd anniversary of our victory in Çanakkale, let all the evil centers know very well that we, the Turkish nation, are fighting the same faith and determination today as we were at Çanakkale yesterday. I pray for the mercy of God, and for the speedy healing of our brave veterans, and for our saints, and for the sake of the land, and for the nation, and for the holy: and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0029par0152	Mr. Dedeoğlu instead of Mr. Ünal...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0030par0154	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 58th day, March 18, 2018, Afrin; 57th Regiment, March 18, 1915. All hail the martyrs of the age, the heroic army of the century, the brave sons of the land. The Battle of the Olive branch, which began with the participation of 72 of our martyrs, has set an example for our glorious army all over the world. Not a single civilian's nose bleeds, the city's been wiped out of a terrorist organization. A hundred and three years ago in Çanakkale, today in Afrin, he fought the alliance of 28 states. Tunnels and terrorist sites created by the mind of the Alliance have been destroyed by 75 percent of our domestic and national ammunition. Our Turkish Armed Forces have provided a four-day exit from the area, leaving an open corridor at the border, under internal security, so that civilians will not be harmed. A Seyit in Çanakkale, a Omar in Ankara, a Fethi in İzmir, a Eren in Tripoli, a Musa in Afrin... may Allah accept their testimony.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0031par0158	Mr. Balbay...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0032par0160	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of lawmakers, there were two reports from Europe last week. One of them, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, dismissed Turkish from working language to save money. Second, the British government declared that it would no longer grant the Turks a permanent residence permit; it was limited to three years. This agreement was reached in 1963 by the Ankara Agreement. Turkey's international honor was much higher in the 1960s, in the 70s, when the government disliked it. While this is happening in the world, unfortunately, in Turkey, sugar factories are being sold, and in sugar, foreign companies, foreign forces, are more effective in Turkey. Finally, a sane thinker came out of power, and the government was wrong. If the government doesn't listen to the opposition, I wish they'd at least listen to themselves, and I condemn the government's position once again.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0033par0164	Mr. Havutça...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0034par0166	Thank you, Mr. President. We shout everywhere that the sale of sugar factories is against our national interests. See, in 2001, the sugar beets had 410,000 hectares, but in 2015 the number of farmers dropped to 272,000 hectares; from 337 thousand to 120,000. With the impositions of the United States and the IMF, the sugar industry is completely dependent on the outside, and our people are being sentenced to starch-based sugar, corn syrup. The sale of 14 sugar factories will condemn our farmers, livestock and workers to hunger and poverty. We ask: Who are you the minister of, Cargill, or the Turkish farmer?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0035par0169	And finally, Mr. Sugar...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0036par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 17th-century midterm elections, Hasan Celal Eylü, who was elected member of Gaziantep from the Motherland Party, did the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, respectively in the government of Turgut Özal. Hasan Celal Güzel, president of the Rebirth Party, founded on November 23, 1992, defended democracy against coups and fought for free thinking all his life. On February 28, we saw Hasan Celal Güylü come out not only as a freedom fighter, but as a fighter on July 15. The brave, courageous, and courageous statesman, a beautiful man, like his last name, Hassan Celal, walked to Hakkk on the first day of the three months. I pray for God's mercy. First, I would like to extend my condolences to all those who are close to you, including their beloved wife, the 24th-century MP, the beautiful lady, and may her place be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0037par0174	Thank you. Now, I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. Mr. Master, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0038par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. We experience the inner peace of reaching the three months that have a privileged and important place in our spiritual life. The Turkish Islamic world celebrates its blessed three months, and I wish it to be a blessing. 2 people were killed in an armed attack launched by members of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Hani district of Diyarbakır province. I offer our martyrs the grace of God, and my condolences to his kinsmen and to our nation. Hasan Celal, a former minister, has received the mercy of the beautiful Hakkk. Hasan Celal, an important and colorful face of our recent political history, was a courageous defender of democracy, which began with the State Planning Agency, where I was part of the profession. I ask the Lord God for his mercy, and my condolences to his loved ones and to our nation. In the leadership of the leader who commanded death for the sake of the country, the legend of the brave who walked with the holy spirit, and the seal of the faith within us is Çanakkale. We need to know, understand, and feel this glorious victory that we are on our 103rd anniversary. By sea wars, by land wars, the most glorious pages in Turkish history, and the epic victory of each one, Çanakkale, is actually more than an epic. The cure for dissolution is Çanakkale, the relic of Çanakkale, which prevents division and disintegration, our inspiration is Çanakkale, our reputation and the basis of our claim are our great martyrs. On March 18th Memorial Day, and on the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, the founder of our state, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I ask the grace of God to all of our martyrs and veterans in the struggle for salvation, and to all of our great sins. Mr. President, from March 18th to March 24th, it is celebrated as the Week of Respect for the Elders. Love and respect for the elderly today will reduce our anxiety about the future, making sure that all individuals, regardless of their age, look to life with confidence.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0039par0185	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0038par0186	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk said that the attitude of a nation towards elderly citizens and pensioners is the most important part of the nation's power to live. A nation that has no sense of gratitude for those who have worked hard in the past has no right to look to the future with confidence. With these feelings, all of our elders celebrate the Week of Respect for the Elders, wish them many healthy and happy days, and offer our love and respect.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0039par0188	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0038par0189	On Sunday (March 18th) -- in terms of a historical fact -- the National Durush, Şuhedaya Vefa, the National Congress of Beka, we believe that the national resurrection and the rise of the nation would be a great one. I wish our Congress would bring blessings on our cause, our party, our democracy and our nation. In these difficult days of our country's struggle for a new beka, our President, State Gardenian, has opened up a path of hope in the dark, offering a prescription to the Turkish nation that will bring us to light. Turkish nationalists who headed this blessed road flocked to Ankara on Sunday, allowing each other to embrace and satisfy longing. The leaders from all over Turkey once again showed that they had one body in their direction and felt the spirit of our martyrs within them and shouted to the enemy, "We are here." The nationalist movement is moving with confidence towards the future in safe hands as its representative and trustee, the place in Turkish history. The nationalist movement, the Turkish nation's hope, the guarantee of the future, will continue to be a relic of Turkish history under the leadership of our President, State Gardenli. The founder of our Republic, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, is a steeled expression of Turkish unity, Turkish power and ability, Turkish patriotism. Indeed, our victorious army, Afrin, who showed Turkish power and ability to the enemy, has made us return once again by sewing the Turkish flag. Once again, I ask God's mercy on our soldiers who march to martyrdom. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0040par0193	Finish it, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0038par0194	A nation that has such children, by the will of God, will not make us humble in the world, but will be victorious in its struggle. The United States has placed terrorists under the skirts who have persecuted the local people into terrorist nests. We are bringing democracy into the United States, which is not ashamed to speak for terrorists who have escaped or been neutralized. Let him look back where he has entered, what can he see but blood, tears, and destruction? The Turkish Armed Forces published photos of Musul, Aleppo, Rakka and East Guta (A) after military action. If anyone wants to see the difference between the Turkish army and its own armies, the difference between humanity and precision, let's look at Afrin. So we say that the only army built to keep a man alive is the Turkish army. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0041par0197	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0200	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is a place of representation, a place of public representation, and a place of information, information, debate, debate, public information. It's not usually a hangout, and we don't think it should be. Now, luckily, without more civilians and casualties... in fact, it's not really what this country deserves... to enter an empty county... and try to win a Çanakkale victory on the anniversary of the March 18th of Çanakkale. Çanakkale is the site of a country's defence with the Kurds, with the Turk, with the Circikals, with all its peoples. Now this is what the National Assembly is like. This is why I started speaking: First of all, what should be done, what should be done now, what is the country's foreign policy, what is Middle Eastern policy, what is it, what is it, what is it, to make statements to parliament, what is it? The Secretary of State should be here. At times like these, it's not really a place to be idle, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In addition, for example, from now on, yes, what is planned should be given information. For example, are we now a conquered country? So we have other places to conquer, we need to be informed of that. Or did we go to a place and make a conquest? Is it also a looting act? That's...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0043par0206	Complete, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0208	Whether or not raiding attempts are being made or looting is also required to be given information. Is this the kind of country we are, is this the kind of country we are? We don't think we're that kind of country. But the explanation of these and what kind of policy we have ahead of us must be given to all the people of the country. On the eve of Nevroz, where, for example, did 450,000 people from Afrin (Afrin) migrate from a district of Kurds? International law and principles also require explanation. The relatives of our Kurdish citizens here are among them. On the eve of Neurosis, when people here are getting hurt, what are they planning to do to stop those people from getting hurt? We think the MPs and the public need to know that.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0043par0211	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0213	And why, for example, is the dollar close to $4, and why is it running towards euro five, and what is the cost of this war to us, and it needs to be known to our people and everyone. Now, Mr. President, we've told you many times that this structure has jihadist rational crime elements, that it has committed many crimes in Afrin, but there is one important thing, that every non-marital warrior and his children who are killed in the war are entitled to Turkish citizenship; Mustafa Secri, one of the leaders of the Mutam Brigade, who was reported to have been injured in the war or wounded in his Twitter account, wrote that these were promised by Turkey by the parents of the non-maritals, that the parents of every Syrian warrior who were killed in the war were given the right to receive Turkish citizenship; he was injured in the war; he was given a permanent injury in the war.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0043par0216	Please let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0218	...the family of martyrs will be given a free apartment, and the family of martyrs will receive $30,000 in total. Now, how true are these allegations? With so many unemployed people and homeless people in this country, what right do these jihadist structures have to make such promises? We're asking again the question we asked at first, and in this House, they need to be answered. I'd like to show you one last thing. Responding to CNN International's questions, Mr. İbrahim Kalak said that the OSO elements entering Afrin have taken seriously news that the houses have been looted, that they have started a study on the subject. You do business with these people? Is that a victory? We'd also like to ask.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0044par0222	What's in it?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0223	I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0045par0224	Let's finish it. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0042par0226	For this reason, I have made the statement of Mr. Ibrahim Kaluk. We have made a motion today, and some of the things in our proposal have been sent back to be corrected, and one of them was that after entering Afrin, the first practices of the ESSOists were asked to remove the sentence regarding the spoils of the Kurds' homes property. Now, why was this done when Abraham Kaluk was standing in the middle of this statement? Second, we said: "The AKP government has responded negatively to the minimum human calls of international institutions. " Don't bother, we won't leave until we're done. Didn't he say? What's the reason for the motions to be rejected here? When thoughts differ, we reject those who disobey us. Is that what they're called? We'd like to ask you that, too. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0046par0229	Thank you. Mr. Ozkoch, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0047par0232	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, Mr. Hasan Celal is a politician who served the Great National Assembly of Turkey and our country. We wish him God's mercy, our condolences to his relatives. Mr. Mühsin Yazıoğlu was the leader of our political party, he was working to serve his country, he was working with his members to do the politics properly, but the cause of death is still unknown, even today, when a helicopter has fallen, which is still unexplainable. If the great state of Turkey still can't explain how a political party's leader died and what caused it, it undermines the reputation of our own country. On this matter, Mr. Muhsin Yazıoğlu, we demand that these be explained immediately, without any doubt, with regard to his death, mercy and condolences to his loved ones. There's no need to talk about the Battle of Çanakkale. There is no need to tell anyone about Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the commander of the Battle of Çanakkale. Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, I give you notice that his name is not mentioned by the Speaker of Parliament. This is a book by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This book contains an introduction from the Speaker. The only person not mentioned is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0048par0236	Let's finish, please. I'll turn on the mike. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0047par0238	Mustafa Kemal Ataturk is a leader who founded the Ministry of Religion and Religion in this country, demanding that the affairs of religion and state should not be confused, that politics be cleansed of all influence on religion, that religion should be purified and that religion should not be polluted by politics, and that he establishes the affairs of the Diabetes. When speaking of everyone in the wars during the Battle of Çanakkale, I also offer the attention of our community and nation, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. Mr. President, it's World Happiness Day. That's what the United Nations decided. We want so much to be happy, we want so much to be peaceful, but our people aren't happy. Our people are now concerned about how they will live tomorrow; they are concerned about themselves, about their children, about their lives.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0048par0241	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0047par0242	That's our farmers, that's our tradesmen, that's our pensioners, that's our businessmen. For him, it is an equal, just government that will bring happiness. We ask the Grand National Assembly of Turkey once again to ensure an equal and fair government in Turkey. Mr. President, electricity has been down for three or four days in the villages of Mardin Kızıltepe, Derik and Nusaybin, and so has it from time to time. Today is the third day. Hundreds of people, women, children, young, old, without water because they're able to draw electricity from local conditions. Mr. President, around here, people want to plant their land, harvest their land, and they really want to live their lives on their own. The power money they're giving those water engines in there is really high and...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0048par0245	Let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0047par0246	...they're having a hard time paying for it. Now, the electric clocks are on. There's a great deal of people who pay for it. Obstructing people from planting there because of a few people who didn't pay, obstructing their efforts to earn a living would weaken the state. Our country has to come up with a solution to the hard work of people everywhere. We can't have peace there by cutting off their power, condemning them to more others. Therefore, we demand that the power outage in Mardin Kızıltepe, Derik and Nusaybin be terminated immediately. We demand that our people here be cleared so that their efforts may be rewarded. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0048par0248	Thank you. May my Lord make us always happy on the day of our happiness, as you have expressed it. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0049par0252	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to begin by reminiscing with the March 18th Memorial Day of Martyrs and the 100th anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale. The victory of Çanakkale is the name of the battle against the seven heifers; the success of a nation in want and future struggle is epic. It is also evidence of the rareness of his wife in history, of the love of country and flag, and of how faith prevails over weapons and numbers. Çanakkale is the work of hundreds of thousands of heroes who risk their lives without blinking for the sake of the nation and the country they know honor. On the night of July 15th, we had the most important proof that the Chanakkale spirit would last for centuries. Our beloved nation, with the same feeling, the same determination, for the sake of future, stood bare-handed against the F16s, against the tanks, as our President called them to the squares. He said to stop against the attempt to invade his country. Again, just as our nation did not say "chankkale" in vain on that day, just as it did today a hundred and three years ago, the spirit of Çanakkale was dominated by the heroic Mehmet-donomies who successfully entered the centre of Afrin on the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, and the words of Mehmet-chik, who opened the Turkish flag, touched all our nation and martyrs on March 18th Day. From here we send our greetings and prayers, and once again from this Veteran Assembly, we voice our prayers to Mehmetçik, who wrote the heroic epic, who cleansed the region of terror and terror. With these feelings, I remember all the heroes of that epic written a hundred and three years ago in Çanakkale, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, and our heroic soldiers, martyrs, 15 July democracy martyrs, and all our martyrs, once again with mercy and gratitude.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0050par0258	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0049par0259	In the meantime, I'd like to say once again that we share the pain of the grieving family with them because of the death of Hasan Celal Bellam, whom we attended today. The state, politics, and the nation will always remember their service to our lives with respect, and during February 28th, our former ministers, Hasan Celal Güylü, who stood upright against the coupist mentality, ask Allah's mercy on his family, his place is paradise. However, the beginning of three months. We live together in the joy of receiving mercy, blessings, and forgiveness, and three months. I hope the blessed month, the harbinger of Ramadan, will also lead to the salvation of all the oppressed and mankind. By the way, the National Movement Party had a convention this weekend. This convention was their 12th regular convention. I congratulate the president of the Nationalist Movement Party, which has been elected President for the 9th time in this convention, and all of its companions, all of its companions, and I wish them good fortune.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0051par0263	Please, complete.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0049par0264	However, I would like to make a brief statement specifically for this. The Free Syrian Army and our Turkish Armed Forces, our soldiers, our Mehmetchuks together, to prevent the formation of the terror corridor, to ensure that the region is cleared of terrorists... especially here, for a long time now, when operations have begun, we see that the Free Syrian Army, which is an important part of the legitimate Syrian opposition, has been tried to be seen as being associated with terrorism, and so can a shadow be cast into operations here? The Free Syrian Army, along with all of our Mehmet-chik, has had a lot of hard work and support in this fight. We thank them from here again.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0051par0265	Thank you. Mr. Bronze, I said I'd give my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0052par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. Bartin's National Education Director Yaşar Demir has just made some allegations about the Republican People's Party, Mr. Riza Yalçınkaya, under oath. I've spoken to the Director. He states that the allegations are not true, that he certainly did not say those words, and that he filed the necessary criminal charges against those who framed them, and that he also made the necessary statements about those who spread these allegations through the press. I've been promised to clear that up. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0053par0272	Thank you. Mr. Tanal, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0054par0275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, every factory is a fortress. I honor and appreciate our Founding Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. We're not gonna sell this nation's castles, candy factories. The sugar factory is home, the country cannot be sold. I invite everyone from here to take care of the Lüleburgaz on March 25th, the sugar mills. Lüleburgaz is in front of the old government mansion this Sunday at 14 o'clock. In the 100th century, sugar is a homeland, we do not sell the land, we do not sell it. We will say, "Every factory is a fortress, like Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, our founder's leader." We're waiting with flags for everyone to walk on the Thracian sugar walk. My regards and regards, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0055par0278	Thank you. We're going on the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I will make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The delegation of the chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, İsmail Kahraman, will make an official visit to Switzerland from 23 March to 26 March 2018 to join the General Assembly of the Inter Parliamentary Union, under the 6th Amendment of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Now, the People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal given in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and vote on. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 20/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On March 20, 2018, İstanbul MP Fliz Kerestecioğlu (7170 group number) proposed that the AKP government's policies in Afrin's privacy should be held in front of other proposals for parliamentary research, which was submitted to the Turkish Parliament to establish a road map by the TBMM in order to eliminate new divisions between Turkey and the Middle Eastern peoples and the years-long tensions. Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group and as the owner of the proposal. Mr. Adıyaman, please. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0056par0308	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on our group proposal. I salute you all. Dear lawmakers, in 2011 the Syrian civil war started -- let's remember a very brief past -- and with the civil war, the AKP government formed a policy on three fundamental issues. First, he politically targeted the Bezar Assad regime, which was present in Damascus, in other words, to overthrow the Shiite regime and create a Sunni jihadist power. His second goal, however the process developed, was to prevent Kurds from gaining status in the process. His third political goal was to build a totalitarian regime within the country, like a state-of-the-art regime, and thus maintain political power over the concept of war. The first of these three goals, the issue of the overthrow of the regime, will be overturned within a month or two, and prayers will be performed in Damascus. Second and third dreams... unfortunately, with the July 15 coup attempt, the country has already begun to rule in an extraordinary manner, a totalitarian regime in the country, with no guarantees of any citizen but those who pledge to the AKP. The other political goal was that Kurds did not gain status in Syria. Its primary goal, or its weakest link, was Afrin. I won't go into too much detail, but as a result of a number of secret negotiations with Russia, on January 20, 2018, an action was launched against Afrin, as the President called it, and the battle of Afrin had begun. Thus, on the second day of the war of Afrin, AKP President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan threatened us, saying, "You are being followed step by step for HDP people." On February 24th, the United Nations Security Council made a decision, declaring a ceasefire throughout Syria to reach humanitarian aid for a month, Turkey did not comply. Many international institutions and organisations have called again, and it has not been accepted again. After all, when we arrived on March 15th, the United Nations' decisions were approved in the European Parliament, the European Parliament made calls, and they were not taken seriously by the AKP's government in any way. Thus, the target was called terror in Afrin, whereas Afrin, the island of peace during the entire Syrian civil war, has lost many civilian lives, according to reports of all international institutions and, most importantly, the United Nations and the Syrian Human Rights Observatory. After all, only civilians have not lost their lives, historical artifacts have been destroyed, such as Ain Dara, and on the last day, 59, armed forces in Syria have announced that they have withdrawn from Afrin to prevent further destruction and the deaths of civilians. And then what happened? SSO gangs and TSK forces have entered Afrin. So, what was the first thing that was done? Tomorrow the statue of a legendary hero, who had historical significance to the Kurds, was destroyed, the symbol of persecution, dictatorship, totalitarian resistance. The statue of the Blacksmith Gâve is not owned by any Kurdish organization, it is owned by all Kurds. Thus, the destruction of all Kurds, without exception, is a major destruction in the subconscious of all Kurds, an attack on culture, history. I strongly condemn this attack with hatred. Despite what the SOC is doing, we all know that the AKP is behind it. My time has been limited, but it has just been expressed, constantly expressed, and every piece of land that has been entered, especially Afrin, stands the Turkish flag. Dear friends, Syria is a sovereign state, either you don't realize it or you're doing politics in the name of the eunuch. There are legal and political consequences to planting flags on the soil of another sovereign state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I complete, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0057par0315	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0056par0316	You're throwing away a lot of money today, but tomorrow, international law and international politics, it's going to cost a lot of money. Maybe you won't be in power, but the people of Turkey will pay the price, the Republic of Turkey will. But you get up, it's like any province of Afrin Turkey, the Turkish flag all over... and the political power and its members, who are responsible for it, are saying how they wave the flag in Afrin or another part of Syria. Either you don't know international law...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0058par0317	What's it to you? Why is he forcing you?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0056par0318	You really don't know international law, you don't know international diplomacy? What will become of international sanctions when all these matters are resolved in Syria tomorrow? Don't you ever calculate that? So let's just consolidate the vote, consolidate the base. We're saying there's no point in making the country difficult in international law, international politics. Therefore, I hope that our motion will be accepted, that a parliamentary research commission will be approved, and we know that it will not be accepted. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0059par0322	Ardahan MP Özturk Yilmaz on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0060par0325	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. I salute the High Council. It's an important step. Of course, you must first understand the reasons for these events that began in Syria. Their reason is that the government's Syrian policy has failed and Turkish Armed Forces have made these mistakes right by taking on a large cost. Now, the formation of the local council in Afrin is a positive development. We made a suggestion about this last week, that it's positive to do something similar, at least it'll create a sense of ownership in the locals, I'd like to point out. Second: It is also important to create a police force with local forces there, an auction for Turkey, an auction for the local people, at least with their powers, and I want to point out that. Third: This should not be an issue of domestic politics. Fourth: We have once again seen that the warnings we have given about the SOS are fundamentally real here in Afrin. The conduct of the Turkish Armed Forces here is commendable, but there are serious concerns about the SOS, and we would like to state it. It's important to win the locals. So the construction of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) has been destroyed, the KCK structure has been destroyed, the canton is infested, but it is now important to win the Kurds in the region, to win the Turkmen, and to win the local people. Therefore, the respect of the landmarks of the local people is what we are historically used to, the Turkish nation is accustomed to, and we would like to point out that this needs maximum attention. Of course, the flags of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in the city will be lowered, and all the elements belonging to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) there will be removed, but the statue of Demirci Gâve, which, in fact, we know, was not appropriate for a historical figure to be destroyed. Now, what's important is how the next process will work. How will this process take place? It is important and important that we quickly address zoning activities, security there, and by means of the local legislature there, we respond to the use of at least certain powers of the people in their area. If Turkey has already done so, it can also set an example for other regions, and it can essentially contribute to the progress of soft power at some point. Otherwise, the language or the acquish that we're going to create here in relations with the local people will increase our acceptance in this region, depending on the situation where criticism can be involved.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0061par0334	Finish your sentence, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0060par0335	And the international community's point of view here needs to be taken care of. Now, you shouldn't confuse this Afrin issue with other places, not with Menbic and the east of the Firat. In Afrin, Russia had some sort of veiled approval, but Menbic would have resistance to the PKK and other elements that were under his protection from the United States. Here, the use of diplomacy to an infinite and significant extent, rather than just one, individual action, I think it would be useful to set a course of action with other regional actors, Iran, Iraq, Damascus, and all the elements, and I salute the Supreme Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0062par0339	Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Samsun MP Erhan Usta will speak. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0063par0343	Thank you. Mr. President, first of all, I congratulate the members of the Turkish Armed Forces who have successfully completed Operation Afrin, God bless them all. Because Operation Afrin is an action based on Turkey's right to self-defense based on international contracts. There's no way anyone can pull this off. From there, Turkey was under serious threat of terrorism as part of Turkey and our fight against it. This action is a legitimate action, a right, a right action. We're also starting to see the results now, and after this action, after Afrines have been cleared of terror, the Afrines will be reunited with their homeland, which is another objective of this operation. Of course, we would like to express here that it is not right to make political material in any way. The reason why Operation Afrin took so long -- we always say this -- is Turkey's civil sensitivity. Turkey's Armed Forces have been extremely sensitive to prevent any damage to civilians, and this action has been completed without civilian casualties. As mentioned in this group proposal, Afrin has never been an island of peace, a home of terror. Not tens of thousands of Syrians fled the civil war, but tens of thousands of terrorists went to Afrin; we saw them in Afrin. So where they're going, there's probably no one who doesn't know that the first thing they do is burn the deed and the population records. The people who fled from there also sought refuge in Turkey. I mean, if this was a peace island, people wouldn't be running from there. And those who were kept there were kept there by force, to be made a living shield. I'm not going to tell you how PKK/YPG uses child fighters, how it uses children in these terrorist activities, the reports of the United Nations, Amnesty International and human rights commissions have already been reflected; because my time is limited, I will not say so. So what will those who accuse Turkey of violating human rights say to the millions of Syrians who have been embraced by the Turkish nation? Terrorists supposedly left town so the city wouldn't be damaged. However, you struggle for 58 days, and now they have fled in the face of the Turkish nation and the Turkish army's determination, and that is how we must determine that. Another thing: You won't be disturbed by the PKK, the YPG flag, you'll forget that this is a state when those flags are hanging there, you'll be disturbed by the Turkish flag; that's not going to happen. That's the PKK mouth, friends, no matter who says it, it's the PKK mouth, and you need to see it very clearly. The other issue is that the Turkish army has never been involved in looting or looting there in any way. Several examples of looting reflected in the press are available for the Free Syrian Army, which is more unknown, whether it is true or not; they need to be looked at and tested.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0064par0351	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0063par0352	Velev, which is true, which is not, because there is no way that I think it's true because our control is going on in there, and let's say it's true, because of one or two isolated events, it's not in any good interest to shadow such a victory, such a struggle, to discredit it. So, regardless of how we look at it... in the Afrin matter, the Afrin movement is not against Kurds at all, but against terrorists. So if anyone is uncomfortable with this action against terrorists, I have nothing to say to them. We all know there are Kurds in the Free Syrian Army. So this action is the right action, and this action is not an action that will weaken our hands internationally in any way. Turkish enemies, of course, will be uncomfortable no matter how well we do it right. I don't think we should be on the side of Turkish enemies. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0065par0356	Thank you, Master.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0066par0357	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0065par0358	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0066par0359	In particular, because the motion was ours, those who were uncomfortable with our proposal, those who were uncomfortable with the flag being raised by other flags there, such as this is the mouth of terror. It's completely out of the picture...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0067par0360	We're detecting. Is there a mistake?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0066par0361	The detection is against international law. Our friend will answer.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0067par0362	No, no, not at all.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0068par0363	Mr. Adıyaman, please. Please, let's talk about a delicate matter, considering where our conversations are going. Your time is two minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0069par0368	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, the whole Parliament knows what I mean. In terms of international law, the flag wave of a different country in the territory of a sovereign country, regardless of who it is, is a matter that is extremely problematic and sanctioned by international politics and international law, and this is the first. Second: 550,000 people have now migrated from Afrin. Yes, there's a Parliament that's being formed, it's being created, but it's being created because the demographic structure of Afrin is being altered. Because the people of Afrin... were there 450,000 terrorists in Afrin? 85 to 90 percent of Afrin were Kurds. What is it now that 450,000 Kurds, terrorists, have evacuated Afrin? Who's going to come instead? Instead, it's very clear... that from the very beginning, the government has expressed, revealed, confessed over and over again. Changing demographic structure of the evacuated Afrin. Instead, families of groups of supporters, probably SOS and jihadists, who have settled in Turkey will be placed. We know very well that any other issue here, whether it's OSO or any other gang, whatever they do, these gangs, in terms of international law, either the organization or the terrorist organization or so on, will be seen, but the sanction of any form of negativity that will be developed there will be asked of the state of the Republic of Turkey, which has legitimacy. Of course, you know, tomorrow, there'll be no S.E.S.O. Is there going to be a P.S.O. or a separate debate or another organization? So that's what we want to emphasize. For him, there are terrorists like that in Afrin, this, this, 450,000 terrorists -- they're all perception operations, and they don't mean the truth.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0070par0372	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0069par0373	Well, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0070par0376	However, perception operations are a very important and sensitive issue that shouldn't be done, and in that sense, it's a purely international legitimacy action. The 51st article of the United Nations is very clear. Again, there are decisions made by the United Nations Security Council on several occasions. It's the fight against terrorism. Here, in particular -- I mean, I'm hurt -- it's a misunderstanding, as if there was a struggle with the Kurds, as if there was a struggle against the Kurds.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0069par0379	I mean, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0070par0380	On the contrary, it is a struggle between the Kurds and our Kurdish brothers and the peace of the region and the terror of Turkey, and I would like to express it here as a Kurdish Parliament Speaker. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So here, because of this action, those who have done the action should be congratulated. A single civilian's nose is a struggle for 58 days without bleeding, practically digging a well for him. There are flags coming from 10,000 kilometers, 11,000 kilometers away, waving flags from other countries, flags from terrorist organizations.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0069par0381	We're against them, too.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0070par0382	And not with an empirical claim, but with a completely humane approach, but also with a heartfelt congratulations to all the security forces that have successfully accomplished this operation, both preventing and preventing attacks on terrorists who have infiltrated Turkey, and Turkey's support for the peace of all Kurdish brothers in the region.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0071par0384	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0070par0385	Here you go, Mr. Kerestecioglu. I promise you first.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0071par0388	Now, first of all, I think we should start with the General Assembly by agreeing on this. We're people who know law, we're talking international law. Now, we've been saying something to the American flag all our lives, if it's an invader, but we're not the ones who are going to say it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0072par0389	You didn't, you didn't. We didn't hear it on the stand. Say it from the stand.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0071par0390	If you'll just shut up for a moment, I'll go ahead and tell you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0072par0391	I'm not your contact.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0071par0392	They're the ones who'll say it. What we want to draw attention to is that you can't go and raise flags in another country, and there are consequences. You might disagree with that view, and you say, "No, we're in another fashion, so our foreign policy is going to move forward -- I already said that in the first place -- we're going to conquer from now on, we're going to go, we're going to plant flags, we're going to do this, we're going to do this. Because that's what they say. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0073par0395	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0071par0396	But, aside from all that, it's all a thought. If we're going to talk about it here this week, we're going to talk about it properly, and if there's any thought against it, I beg you, not you, the ruling party will answer. So you're the one who has to maintain his neutrality here, and I've shown you this. What's going on here is the statue of the Blacksmith Gâve, all right, the statue of the Blacksmith Gâve. There may be people who don't want to, but I don't think you do. So please don't state your opinion from here, Mrs. Firstnur, let others state, let others state power, because we've been experiencing this for two weeks, especially last week, and we've seen what's going on with violence. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I wanted to express it as a group of vice presidents so I wouldn't have to go through the same thing. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0074par0400	Thank you. But let me put it this way: if the Republic of Turkey is fighting foreign elements, if it's fighting terrorist organizations, I'll take my side very clearly. So we expect everyone here to take the same side; that's our natural right, that's what the nation expects of us. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Other than that, not with an occupying logic... Behold, it happened in Cerablus, and over 100,000 men of Cerablus went, and dwelt there. We'll leave Afrin to the Afrines.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0075par0404	450,000 people have migrated.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0074par0405	Not with an invasive logic, but with a conquest logic, but with a full-blown struggle against terror organizations, we all need to be very clear and clear.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0076par0406	You're gonna bring back 450 grand?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0075par0407	Mr. President, then answer the questions I asked you in the first place. Where have 450,000 people migrated to? What's our foreign policy? What's the next project? Have the Secretary of State come in here and answer a minister on behalf of the government. You're not responsible for this. Here we are, in Congress, asking questions on behalf of our people. Let the government answer these questions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0074par0408	Thank you. Mr. Master, you're in the system too.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0077par0411	I'll tell you one thing: every member of parliament is responsible for this problem.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0078par0412	What kind of MP is it?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0077par0413	Every MP in the Republic of Turkey's Republic of Turkey's Parliament has to say that such a problem has to be dealt with by such a wrong problem. Now, we have the right to self-defense under Article 51 of the United Nations Treaty -- Article 51 of the General Assembly. Look, watch international public opinion, no international organization, no state has said that this movement of Turkey here is legitimate, but they could say: "Aman, pay attention to civilians, like this... Now, there's something said beyond that, you have to understand this very well. So what's the point here? So if someone in Parliament says what the enemy can't even say, it's illegal. If it says that there's a problem here. Everyone needs to take care of themselves in that sense. Yes, from the beginning of the Syrian territorial integrity, the Republic of Turkey defends the state. It's the basic policy of the state of the Republic of Turkey, a sovereign state, but you have to be careful when you say that.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0079par0417	Please, let's wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0077par0419	A colonial terror state is being created, and we won't speak for it, and you're going to build a colonial terror state here, and you're going to do a continuous terrorist bombing from there to Turkey, and Turkey will remain silent against what's at the bottom of our borders, and you'll wait for this from Turkey, and that can't happen. So, as we say, Turkey has taken the right to self-defense from international contracts, international agreements, and no one should be offended by the use of that right. Not a single civilian has a nosebleed. Seven civilians died yesterday. It was because of the bombs the PKK set off on its way out. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0079par0421	Thank you. Mr. Incescuz, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0080par0424	Mr. President, I'd like to point out here in particular that we've made a lot of statements before the operation in Afrin, Operation Olive Dalli, as Turkey. We've made it very clear from the beginning in Syrian policy that Syria would never be allowed to break down, that territorial integrity should be maintained, and that Turkey had the right to self-defense, that it would use both national and international law-related rights as this operation began, especially from the beginning of the process, and from the start of that domestic turmoil in Syria, we've declared that territorial integrity to the world that it was a right to self-defense for Turkey when Operation Olive Dallı began, and that it was a right for its safety to protect and for the protection of international law, and that it was a right to return to its own countries, especially from terrorism, from terrorism, from terrorism, from terrorism, from terrorism to the start, we've underlined the whole operation of the world.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0079par0426	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0080par0427	It's undisputed, for one thing. I want to make it very clear that it's not really acceptable to be shown in the opposite direction in Parliament, with certain word games, as if it were an occupying country, unfortunately, to be expressed in Parliament. Someone here, while the operation was going on, shared their concerns and so on. Look, the reason why the operation lasted so long is because, in the past period, after June 7, 2015, our soldier showed the same sensitivity here, just as the civilians in Diyarbakir had a nosebleed. Today, he came to his 60th day, where not a single civilian was asked to be harmed. But when we look at terror and terrorists, terrorist groups, terror elements... you know how a soldier of ours is martyred, the Koran -- our holy book -- is set up a bomb trap behind it -- according to our faith. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'd like to finish my words.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0079par0430	Please let's finish. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0080par0432	Just a few days ago, again, four soldiers and seven civilians from the Free Syrian Army lost their lives with a bomb trap where they left off. Why? It's one of the traps the YPG here left behind by the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). With the same precision, civilians are not allowed in there, especially until the insides of buildings are cleaned up. Next thing you know, who set the traps, who's got guns? The next thing you know, who's threatening the order, the life, the faith, everything that's out there? Terrorists, terrorist elements. So it's like there's some kind of hostility here to the Kurds in the region to get rid of the terror... look, after that area's been cleaned up, the Kurds, the Turks, the Arabs, whoever they are, they own the land. Just as with Operation Firat Shield, which you just declared, you declared -- the creation of areas where the people of that region will live again, that Turkey has no eyes on anyone's soil, but no one will be sorry, the terror corridor will be formed just south of us, the terror state... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...will be tried and Turkey will remain silent! No one expects us to remain silent, friends.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0081par0438	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the final statement belongs to Hatay MP Orhan Karasayar (Hatay) on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Blackbeard.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0082par0445	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been advanced by recent abuse shots and attacks on the lives and property safety of our people, both friends and fellow members of the terrorist organization located in the northern part of Afrin, Syria. Thus, on January 20, 2018, both PKK and its extensions launched Operation Olive Dalı in the Afrin region to neutralize terrorists belonging to the PKK, TYD, YPG, KCK, and DEAŞ. It is not possible for Turkey to tolerate the presence of any terrorist element on its border. The existence of these terrorist organizations has become a threat to the security of our national security and borders. PKK, NYD, DEAS, they're all a bloody terrorist organization. We're a country that struggles relentlessly with terrorist organizations. Our fight against terrorism is not only for our country, but also for Syria, for our region and for world peace. May God help our Mehmet, our heroes. Turkey successfully carried out a military operation without damaging civilians, burning down settlements and destroying the region. Thus, it is the hostility of Turkey that those who should appreciate Turkey still seek to create perception with lies and false information. Turkey will continue to do what is right and do what it knows is right, regardless of the accuser's reprimand, and no one else's appreciation. On March 18th, the city of Afrin was cleared of terrorists. Any steps necessary for the people of the region to return to their homes will be taken as soon as possible. Research continues to detect mines and explosives in downtown Afrin. The operation will continue until the terror elements are cleared of this area. Turkey's effort will also contribute to the protection of Syria's territorial integrity and unity. Turkey will continue its zealous support for the implementation of a transition process that will reflect the will of the people in Syria, start a real political change in the country, and bring peace, stability and security to the country. As Hatay Province, we now have 500,000 Syrian guests in our district. Hatay is a people who have lived in this atmosphere for six and a half years. Operation Olive branch, Operation Afrin, was very well received by the entire region. Our people know very well that this was done to protect our borders, to preserve our security, to wipe out terror from the region. Hatay has seen the French occupation at the time, had the Salvation War, and has made the same spirit alive today, as the region that has come out of its face.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0083par0451	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0082par0452	Our energy has increased once again. They say to us, "May God keep you all together." But in return, we say, "May God keep this nation." It's easy to get on the road with a nation like this. We went through this on July 15th, and now we're living through Operation Afrin. As all of you, as the world sees, our neighbors in Afrin are surprised at what they will do when they see Turkish soldiers, and they say, "Where have you been?" Because so far, our Mehmet-chik has brought humanity to its destinations in history, brought justice, and not even embraced wounded traitors who shot at him and gave him the slightest concession of his humanity. Hopefully, in the meantime, as a result of Operation Olive branch in our region, we'll be ridding our country of all the terrorists inside and out... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and destroy the dreams of the imperialist forces behind these terrorist organizations in that region. Again, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0084par0457	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0085par0458	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit01spe0084par0459	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit02spe0084par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. We're voting with an electronic voting device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0084par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted, the decision is sufficient. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Before I read it, Mr. Yalcinkaya, I said I'd give you my word for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0086par0009	Mr. President, I said Bartin's attitude and actions in managing the State National Education Director led the public to hatred, hatred and hostility, so that he should be dismissed by investigation into this person. After this talk, Bartın MP Yilmaz Tunç took the liberty of speaking to the State National Education Director on the phone, stating that what was said was not true, that the manager would press charges against these allegations, that he had been the attorney of the person who divided and divided the people, and protected him. I wish, after a phone call from the congressman, he had been able to look into the allegations that he would protect and protect this person, listen to the records of the speaker's speech in Ulus, and then try to represent that administrator at the General Assembly. That's what lawyering is all about. First of all, I think it would have been better if those records had been handled and those interviews had gone to the defense of such a manager after they had heard the talks.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0084par0010	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0087par0011	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0084par0012	Mr. Tunç, it has been considered necessary that all lawmakers be invited to the scene under the condition that the costs be paid by Bart's lawmakers...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0088par0013	Sir, I'd like to say something about that.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0084par0014	Guys, okay, let's get this over with.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0088par0015	Sir, as Bart's supervisor, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0089par0016	Mr. President, without teasing...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0084par0017	Mr. Bronze, I'll give you my word for a minute according to 60. By God, you'll go to expense, and you'll make all the MPs a guest in Amasra. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0089par0020	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, I just made a statement about Bartin's National Education Director. In the words of Mr. Yalçınkaya, our National Education Director says he didn't say so, I said so. He also stated that he had filed a criminal complaint against those who had filed these allegations. He also sent the statements to press agencies about the people who were spreading them through the press, and I made it clear. I'd like to point out to your lawyer that these kind of statements and so forth are not true. If these allegations are true, if they have any evidence at all, it would be wise for Mr. Yalçinkaya to share them with the judicial authorities, the relevant investigative authorities, but there is the other side that says they are not true, so we need to listen to this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0090par0023	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0091par0024	Mr. President, I want a promise. The congressman still says the allegations aren't true.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0090par0026	If there is, if these claims are true, if they are true, take them to the authorities.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0091par0027	And I say, "These allegations are real, these managers have made these speeches." When he examines the video footage from the meeting where the conversation was held, it will be clear and clear that he did it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0092par0028	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0091par0029	I still don't understand his protection. He must have brought it himself from Istanbul, from Pendik, and now he has to protect it for him.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0092par0030	No audio recording, audio recording.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0093par0031	Mr. Yalcinkaya, honestly, look, if this goes on long enough, you're gonna have to put up all the MPs. Thank you. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 20/3/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly, according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. The meeting of the Assembly of Turkey's Assembly (10/1555) main parliamentary Research Charter (10/1555) was proposed in the General Assembly's 20/3/2018 Tuesday (today) merger of the General Assembly (to present) to determine measures that should be taken by investigating Karaman's problems in the part of the General Assembly's agenda. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Denizli MP Kazim Arslan will be speaking on behalf of the proposal.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0094par0046	Mr. President, with me as Denizli MP, our MP Durmis Fikri Rights, our Istanbul MP Mahmut Tanal, Çanakkale MP Muharrem Men and party assembly member Sera Kadigil, in light of the work we did last year with our friends in Karaman, we submitted a motion to investigate Karaman's problems and solutions at the point of January 2017. But the time has come, and in today's meeting, we expect your support by offering you a proposal on where Karaman's problems and solutions should be. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you with love. Our karaman province is actually a province that extends from Konya to Mersin, doing business from industry to trade, and particularly agricultural work, and also has potential for animalism. However, because of its neglect, Karaman emerges not as a province that cannot be truly assessed and therefore is developing, but as a province that is left behind. Although it has an attractive position in its region, its potential is not being fulfilled, or, rather, not being evaluated, so its attraction is not really very good for the Karamans and our people living in Karaman. For him, we see that there are many shortages in these matters, especially when Karaman is our agricultural province and is actually more developed, more productive, more useful to our country. I'd like to point out that Karaman County has a lot of problems with transportation. I especially want to point out that we have an economically leftover province because the connection between our districts and Karaman is not very good and it's very far away and the necessary routes have not been done. Dear lawmakers, I'm afraid the Karaman economy doesn't grow enough, it doesn't. The irrigation is particularly bad, and rather than the products that are being watered here, the products that do not really need water should be first grown, but there are many shortcomings in these areas. It's a fact that instead of being supported here, such as the sugar beets, such as the corn, such as the moon core, it's actually dry agriculture, which can grow and grow much more in Karaman's province with the incentive to plant grain here, and so the economy can get to a good point. Therefore, we see a Karaman province that diminishes underground water every day. Dear MPs insist that Gökpe Mayor Beldenin be the district, especially in accordance with the complaints and requests that come to us. In the case of this town being a county, it can also be seen to be a better development. In particular, human life, watering, and natural balance have also been negatively affected, including the environmental problems of Karaman, the district of Ayrancı and the region of Skype. It is a fact that the HES and thermal power plant projects, which locals particularly oppose, will destabilise the natural balance and increase the migrations here. In particular, the Karaman people expect that the fast train project, which began in 2014, was thought to be connected with the Konya-Karaman-Nigde-Nigde-Turkish, but could not be finished, should be completed as soon as possible. A Ermenek transport system that can be routed to Ermenek via Konya and returned to Mersin must be activated as soon as possible. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0095par0053	Please complete, Mr. lion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0094par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. In particular, again, in Karaman, the palace of justice began in 2013, still unfinished, and the palace of justice needs to be finished as soon as possible. Again, a study to provide drinking water from the Ibrala Dam at Karaman headquarters began in 2014, but unfortunately this project was not completed, and it must be completed as soon as possible. Karaman is one of the 10 most polluted cities in Europe. Especially here, to restore thermal power plants will increase this pollution, and the future of Karaman County will come to a worse place. In particular, CHP municipalities are under pressure in Karaman. Here, with CHP winning, even the AtM Bank of Agriculture has been shut down since some of our mayors took over. These are the wrong practices. So, let's not neglect our province of Karaman, support it, see the results of our research in this field together and improve our province of Karaman. Thank you all very much, I give you my regards.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0096par0063	Thank you very much. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mersin MP Baki Simsek will speak on the proposal. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. Lightning, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0097par0067	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the matter of Karaman province on behalf of the National Party of Action. I hereby salute the High Council. Of course, Karaman County is our neighboring province. First of all, the road to Karaman-Mut-Mersin -- the work continues, but it's a bit of a rough geography, a region with a lot of tunnels -- is to be finished immediately. Again, the launch of the fast train between Niğde-Mersin and the completion of the Konya-Karaman-Niğde-Mersin-Adana speed train project... The biggest problem with Karaman is agriculture in this region, Karaman is an agricultural region. The investments in industry are quite large in Karaman, Karaman is one of our rare provinces in the area where unemployment is not available, but agriculture, of course, especially because electricity is high, many of the irrigation troops are having trouble paying electricity money, and farmers are finding it difficult. Again, the immediate completion of the Conium Plain (KOP-Project) and the repeated failures made in the GAP (as this project was completed), the desertification of the Plains of the Conium and Blackman Plains, the initial deployment of the watering systems in Karaman, and the development of agriculture in Karaman. There are also numerous apple orchards and cherry orchards in the region, and such as all over Turkey, in Karaman, the cold air tanks are inadequate, exports are troubled, they're on the agenda... Of course, right now, the issue of irrigation troops is on the board's agenda. I attended the commission meeting last week with our Minister of the Forest. The problem with irrigation units is the same with Karaman, the same with Mersin, the same with Adana. The problem is the same in Mardin Derik, which is expressed today from this bench. Shutting down the irrigation units right now doesn't solve the problem. The irrigation troops were absent until the 1990s, which was run by the State Waterworks. After the 90s, the irrigation units were activated, but due to some lack of irrigation troops, they are now being discussed in the commission where the irrigation troops will be shut down and the authority will be transferred to the DSI. We'd like to ask the government to review this as the National Movement Party Group. Any irrigation unit that makes a mistake or lacks or does not do their duty should either be assigned to those irrigation troops or those irrigated troops re-elected. While the DSI is being transferred to the DSI, the DSI will also seize the money that farmers will receive from agricultural support, and we do not find that to be true. Agricultural support is a support for farmers to produce better seeds, fertilizers, so why do you give them a power that you don't give to watering troops when you've collected the money so far, when you're handing it over to the DSI right now? We don't think that's true either. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The institutional structure of the irrigation units must be protected, the shortcomings here must exist, but not all irrigation troops should be punished for those who do not do their job well. The season of irrigation will begin now, and the season of irrigation is about to begin all over Çukurova. If the bill on the commission is brought to Parliament and passed immediately, soon, when these union heads and unity councils are out of commission, there will be great difficulties in Çukurova (Dukurova) and many parts of Turkey, which will be better discussed with watering troops and farmers in the region... He's the head of the irrigation troops, and he's the head of the council, and he's the farmer. Someone who's a farmer because they're all farmers can't do a study against the farmer. If anyone's using this with ulterior motives, let the state take precautions. When we mention it in the commission, Mr. Secretary says that there are irregularities in the election here, but in one place, not all irrigation troops should be punished, but the institutional structure of the irrigation troops must be maintained, I salute your grand delegation with these feelings and thoughts.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0098par0079	Thank you. İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group on the proposal. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0099par0083	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, today is World Social Services Day. That's why I'm celebrating this holiday for all the social workers, and I'm celebrating this day. Dear MPs, this is about Karaman, as you know. I'd like to make a few points on behalf of my party regarding CHP's group proposal. Now, in a projection by the Development Ministry's Mevlana Development Agency, which aims at 2014 and 2023 years, the region's plan is to move all its resources to a common goal, to create the highest added value for effective and effective use of resources, and to focus on its goal of minimising regional development differences. However, as my deputy friends have just stated, the difference in region development continues to unfold, unfortunately, the drought and water problem remain the most important problem in the region, not completely finished collecting agricultural land, but there is no policy in organic agriculture that determines the field areas in rural areas, and no projection can be properly developed to reduce the difference of development in rural areas. In particular, I'd like to mention one more thing: there's been a metropolitan field study with Karaman, which will include the Konya central districts, and on a small scale, unfortunately, there's a plan waiting. And I'd like to point out that no plans have been laid out. Dear lawmakers, in fact, Turkey has a very important problem with this irrigation. Look, there's no project anywhere in Turkey to plan rainwater, hold rainwater, then use it. Using European rainwaters, we know the level of subterranean water -- unfortunately, it's dropping -- we've caused major damage, and since the underground waters are being used incorrectly, we're facing huge problems. Again, the electricity of many villages, villagers, has been cut off due to electricity used in agricultural land in Mardin, Derik and Kızıltepe districts. In fact, the public is being punished for its lack of water policy, irrigation policies, projects in irrigation. If a truly decent irrigation project is presented, especially if the problems with agricultural irrigation are resolved, we will not have these kinds of problems, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0100par0090	Thank you. On behalf of the groups, the final word belongs to Karaman MP Recep Şeker. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Sugar, have them come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0101par0094	Mr. President, dear MPs, may the blessed three months be good for the Islamic world, and may Allah have mercy on our former ministers, Hasan Celal Güzel Bey. I've been promised by the AK PARTY Group on the CHP group proposal. I salute your committee. The road networks of Karaman Province, Karaman-Kanya, Karaman-Ereğli, Karaman-Mut, and Karaman-Karabınar, and Erdemli-Biryan, continue. We laid the groundwork last week with Mr. Transport Minister's introductions to join the Sertavul Pass, Sertavul Tunnel, and the Medreslik Viyadı. Hopefully within two years, we'll be in service, and Karaman-Silfke will be down to 45 minutes between Karaman and Silifke. 25km of the 38km road to Ermenek-Mut will be finished, while the Pinedian Viyadı will also have the highest bridge in Turkey's tilted console type, with the height of the first and 196m valley. The Ermenek circuit road was completed in 2017. The road to Sarives-Alaniah, known as the Bird's Nest, will fall into forty-five minutes when the tunnels are completed. Karaman-Busk and Ermenek were completed between Karaman-Busk, and 15km of road work continues until Ermenek. As a result, the road divided only 19 kilometers [19 km] before the EC PARTY was divided into 141 km [141 km] to Karaman, a total of 160 km [60 km]. The BSK-plated road was zero before the AK PARTY, while we now have a 255km BSK-plated road. Our Transport Ministry has invested 1 billion 813 million dollars in Karaman. Fast train work continues to bring the burden of industrial production down to Mersin Harbor, and Karaman-Conya, hopefully, will be in service by the end of this year. Our airport was tendered on October 10, 2017. The logistical centre was tendered on October 3, 2017. On December 13, 2017, the declaration of the establishment of a free zone in Karaman was published in the Official Gazette. The second OSB installation is under way. Technological park is set up. On August 18, 2017, it was published in the Official Gazette. Karaman had 68 companies in the OSB in 2002, while 136 in 2018 reached exports that exceeded $300 million. Over 3,000 workers from neighbouring provinces are now working in the industry, serving Karaman (Karaman) every day. Karaman is the least unemployed province of Turkey with 4.2 per cent, and also Turkey's 15th largest economy. In livestock, 64,000 cattle have 560,000 small animals. Turkey is ranked 2/2 in apple production by 400,000 tons, with 11 million certified trees in the number of trees. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0102par0103	Finish it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0101par0104	In Turkey, 60 per cent of the packaged finds are produced. The second in the beans is the 7th in chickpeas, the fourth in mints, the oatmeal, the zucchini seeds, the fresh onions and carrots are the sixth in Turkey. The irrigation project completes the Bağbaş Dam, AHI Canal and Hotamish Storage as part of the Blue Tunnel. 583 million cubic metres of water will be saved and 20,000 hectares around Montenegro will be watered. In addition, the work in the Blue Tunnel is in the project, which will double the water. The Karaman economy, which has invested 12 billion euros in the AK PARTI administration, is the shining star of Turkey with its people, its agriculture, transport, health, all dynamics, and especially its people.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0103par0106	Why, then, is the population of Karaman's population shrinking? Why is it getting smaller and smaller?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0101par0107	The population is not diminishing in Karaman.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0103par0108	How?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0101par0109	Last year it was 45,800,000, this year 46,970, and a population of 250,000, according to family medicine.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0103par0110	Growth under the Turkish average alone.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0101par0111	Thank you. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0104par0114	Thank you. I submit the proposal to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday/3/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President In the absence of 48 hours of the Law Bill 535 rows distributed, the agenda will be placed in the 2nd place of "The Bill of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the order of other tasks shall be determined according to this; March 2018, Tuesday (now) was the completion of the talks of Bill 533; March 21, 2018, in Wednesday's merger, until the completion of the talks of Bill 535, On Wednesday (March 21st), until the meeting of Law Bill 535, on Thursday (March 22nd 2018), in the absence of the talks of the Law Bill 535, was completed. On Friday (March 23, 2018) outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days, in the event that the 535-line Bill of Laws was not completed Thursday (March 22, 2018), the meeting was held at 2:00 p.m. on Friday (March 23, 2018) until the meeting of Law Bill 535 was completed, and the talks of Law Charter No. 535 were held on the agenda in the part of "Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions" and the meeting was completed in this merger. Until the completion of the daily schedules, which are not completed at 2 p.m. at the top of the list, is completed; The Law Proposal 535 is to be considered by Article 91 of the Civil Code and to have its sections in the following pages; It's recommended. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu is the first and final voice on the proposal of the Justice and Development Party Group. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0105par0138	Mr. President, it's really interesting that the first and last words should not be the first and last words, but everyone should be able to talk, talk, talk, and have no microphones turned off, no violence, no fighting. I made a promise, especially considering the experiences from last week and before that, because I know there's a speed, a constant speed, a need for laws to be passed, they're not negotiated properly, are they not, are there a constant number of decisions, on the one hand, you're bringing a number of laws in front of us in power, but you're not here as MPs, and then you want to make a decision because we want enough? The work is being blocked. It's being tried. We need deputies to work, we need negotiations to work, and Turkey has a lot of really loaded problems. I'd like to finish my speech by referring to just one of these. On March 14, 2018, the Ministry of Internal Affairs issued a statement that increased the right to receive 200 rounds of firearms a year for civilian citizens five times higher to 1,000. There's news about it in the media. What are the citizens going to do with these bullets, given that 1,000 rounds per person are worth about three rounds a day? Why is this arming and, at the same time, the situation of having a bullet increased? In fact, you need to explain to this Parliament that while people have been campaigning against individual arms, for example, for years, the Hope Foundation has been fighting for this, in 2017 there have been 2,187 deaths with individual weapons alone, while many of them have been severely injured, 3,529 people have been injured, and why do you manage to consume 1,000 rounds per person a year? What's it made for? Are you creating a new paramilitary organization? Such doubts are raised, and both citizens and Parliament must be enlightened. Here, if you'll come, if you'll express your opinion, we'll discuss them, or you'll just come vote, you'll go, but it wouldn't be appropriate for us to be a deputy, I'm sorry. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0106par0143	Thank you. I submit the Justice and Development Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/696) The main law shall be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda according to Article 37 of the Civil Code. Yours truly. 6/10/2017 [[Ankara]] On the proposal, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın will speak on behalf of the bidder. Mr. Aydın, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0107par0157	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the bill proposed on behalf of the National Movement Party. I salute your high council. Honourable lawmakers, you know, when we look at the long-term development and development plans of developed countries, we witness that focus is usually intended for a qualified human resource. The way to do that is through direct education and education. Thus, it is inevitable that a country with the potential for young populations such as ourselves should really devote time, energy and resources to education and education. The most important basis of the Turkish education system, again, in this metaphor, is to strengthen the human resource in education, where the greatest burden is in our educators, who are indiscriminately the shareholders of our education, who have worked hard, who are taught that for one letter, you can become a slave for 40 years. So there are some problems that our teachers, whom we call the architects of new generations, face during these great missions. At times, like all party groups, we have often expressed this on behalf of the National Movement Party as a member of the Education Commission. These are a really big audience that's excited to hear us right now, and we're a hell of a lot of people. Why? Because we're talking about a number of things that have led to over 18 million students and about 1 million and 66,000 of our educators. They have problems, problems, but despite everything, their commitment to the country does not offer the slightest lack of service to their education because of their love and conversation with our children. Honourable lawmakers, of course, our educational community has a number of shortages of staff, such as the highness of the community, the great people, our educators, really, a number of rights to self, the status of their spouses, where they serve. The biggest problem is that they're classified in three groups, so it's classified as staffed teachers, contract teachers, and paid teachers for tuition. Really, even though the work is one thing, it's a pain in the ass to be subjected to such a threesome. Hopefully, it will be a very essential and inevitable service for us to get them done quickly and to have them collected in one status. On the other hand, a bleeding wound -- they're being too modest and they're not saying too much -- is what we're aware of -- at the point of their gains. Their prestigious posture in the class, indeed, does not respond because of the lack of salary in social situations, in society, because of the lack of money, because of the fact that their fees are too low. Here, almost 17 percent of our teachers are in debt in a study conducted by Turkish Education-SEN. Now, in the face of a financial picture like this, these teachers can't really be expected to perform a superior performance in their natural habitat in the classroom. In this sense, it's our intention to address the problems of a mass that actually responds to any kind of sacrifice, which is a great struggle in such a troubled situation. There's also another group that we've been offering the law to recently, which should be very carefully taken care of. What's all this? Sir, you know, the closing of the classrooms has begun in Turkey. When these classrooms were closed, of course, there was a great need, how would we handle it? This is 18 on a weekday. After 00, it was also a service that our teachers were given on weekends, but unfortunately the fees for this service are too low, too symbolic, and the teachers didn't volunteer too much because they're already dying in the week. And there's this kind of activity on the weekends, at least, you know, sir, like our salt in the soup, when the previous laws were about 130-150, and we offered a law at the point where it was immediately raised and raised to 250. We think that at least this sacrifice will be symbolically reciprocal.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0108par0165	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0107par0166	With great sacrifices these days, I'd say we'd be a bit of a salve to the bleeding wounds of our teachers, who are truly figures. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit03spe0108par0168	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0108par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume the discussions of the Plan and Budget Commission Report, with the Tax Laws in the 1st place, and the Charter's Charter on Changes in Some Laws and Legislatures. The commission and the government are in place. In the 72nd Union, dated 15/3/2018, the votes were completed in the second chapter of the Law Bill 533, which was considered to be the main law under Article 91. We now begin the talks of section three. The third part includes articles 50 to 77. The first word on the third chapter belongs to İzmir MP Ahmet Kenan Tanrıkulu, on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Dear Godkulu, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0109par0015	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Action on the third part of the Law Bill 533 we discussed. First of all, I salute our General Assembly. Congressmans, this bill that we've discussed has led to changes in many articles and laws in our current legislation. These changes are being described by some of the communities as being expected, and we are continuing these talks today. The third part, which we're interviewing, covers the 50 to 77th clauses, and I predict that some of the regulations made in some of these substances may be experiencing some problems in the future. Now, when we look at what they are, for example, in Articles 54 and 55, the only treasured accounts are being held, but which institutions are left under the authority of the Council of Ministers. Institutions such as the SEC, or CSCEs or municipalities, whose financial autonomy is in their hands today, are likely to lose their financial autonomy if this is taken into account by the Council of Ministers' decision. If we talk again about the next significant changes, the arrangements for liquefied oil gas in Articles 50 and 66 will require that the country's security and the necessary stocks be not compromised in this area and that the audits in that direction continue to be carried out in a strict manner. Members of parliament, there has been a change in Article 67 of this bill in Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Act 5510. We hope that this will also be evaluated during the talks, especially after intense demands, since the change in the amount of training students in vocational and technical schools do not apply to the pension service. Once again, when we look at the 73 (73) article in the bill, it is possible for our citizens to work in public between 10 June 2003 and 13 May 2014, in the work of coal and other mines that have died sadly. So far, it's fully approved and expected, but it's possible that the date limit on this clause will become an arrangement that can damage a constitutional right and create a victim. That's why, during the negotiations, the dissolution of the date limit on this clause will be the most valuable news for many of our mining families, perhaps. Members of parliament, the amendments in this bill suggest that it is usually intended to stimulate our economy that is now in stasis and to capture our projected economic growth of 5.5 per cent for the year 2018. But when we look at it, we also see that a serious situation has been ignored here. That is, if we're going to provide adequate economic growth in 2018, so that if we're going to provide sustainable economic growth and quality economic growth, we also have to prevent our current deficit from getting worse. Many studies in Turkey show a strong relationship between economic growth and current deficits. So as our economy gets bigger, our deficit gets a little bit bigger, or the economy gets smaller in the relationship, and as we get smaller, our current deficit narrows. If there's an open business that we're going to provide sustainable and quality financing, then there's no big deal, which is what many economists agree on. But when we look at the financing of the current deficit, the structure today, I'm afraid it doesn't look that good either. Now, we're looking at the previous mid-term program, the previous one that's now in effect -- you know, it was 2017-2019 -- that was a $32 billion account for 2017. In the latest programme -- it covers 2018-2020/ -- there was a $39.2 billion target, shown that, in fact, it was revised, but none of these predictions kept up. Last year's current number was $47.1 billion. And when you look at the first month of this year, it's $51.6 billion. So that's how we get a little bit further away from the targets. When we take a closer look at the financing of this $47.1 billion deficit: 8.1 billion came directly from foreign capital, $24.3 billion from net portfolio investments, $6.5 billion funded by other investments, which means the amount of $8.2 billion that was left after we collected all of this together means that the Bank's foreign currency reserves were covered. So we're also dealing with a very unhealthy way of financing that melts our reserves. But what's healthier in financing the current deficit is not to finance the warmer money that's more preferable -- so the world has done it in some way in the past years, but it's failing it now, it's going to go through other methods, and so are we -- the financing that will be provided with direct investments, exports, and tourism revenues. So here's where it doesn't go so well, when we look at it like this, it's the balance of the sub-pencils to pay off. Last year, the international net investment entry was reduced by 18.8 per cent from the same period of the previous year, down from $13.3 billion to 10.8 billion, so there's a problem with that pen, there needs to be a hand there. Again, 75 per cent of the total of $32.4 billion in Turkey's investment bid in 2017, $24.3 billion -- as I just said -- is the money that takes advantage of a certain risk by taking advantage of more short-term and high-profile revenues. If he sees a high risk as soon as that money comes in -- in the country he comes in -- he can immediately turn that money around and go back to where it came from. So we can look at these kinds of risks as enemies, whether it's economic or political, in a certain sense, of hot money, and this is the worst model of financing the current deficit. Let's go to 2018. In the program, it has a $40 billion deficit when we look at it, but when we look at energy prices or other factors, we can also see that it's going to be a bit of a surge, or even a significant amount, so it's going to go into a deficit between 48 and $50 billion. Well, then, our funding needs will have increased considerably more than last year. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there's also the budget. When we look at it with the deposits and the advance accounts, the budget deficit is 53.5 billion dollars, and that's a serious number. In the financing of this budget deficit, the treasure went to a total of 83.6 billion in net debt; most of it is internal debt, less external debt. This bill, which we discussed, is also expressed by economic management, which will be $17-18 billion in financial burdens to the budget. So right now, the main problem with the Turkish economy is that it's open, and on the one hand, it's a cash shortage. We call it twin open, and the country faces such a problem. When we look at this year's first two months of 2018, for example, we see that the treasury cash deficit is over 13 billion to one. The hot money that comes in comes in at our high interest rate, and I want to underline that. So the low interest rate could miss this hot money; on the other hand, there's a relationship with the courtship, where the exchange prices can rise, which is likely to trigger inflation and affect it as well. He says the economy needs to get out of this spiral, and I salute you all again.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0110par0028	Thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups is for the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Zechariah Azeziel. Mr. Cleansel, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0111par0032	Mr. President, I have been sworn in on behalf of the Republican People's Party in the third part of the Law Bill, whose number is 533. In fact, we have expressed that we are not completely against this bill -- as our earlier friends have indicated -- that there are arrangements that society is expecting, and that we are moderately drawn to it at every opportunity. We did, but we also said that eight of the articles in it should be removed or changed because of its violation of the Constitution and because it upsets the social order, the social order established by law, but it didn't happen. In fact, some of them had been agreed upon, and yes, it would be useful to withdraw it. This agreement was abandoned in the General Assembly, dear friends, given up. What we didn't change, what we just talked about the other day, what we assumed was agreed on -- to be clear -- is still an arrangement that hurts our conscience when we enter the Assembly General Assembly. In this society, where even minimum wagers are taxed by 20 per cent the moment they reach a salary of 14,000 lira, those who receive millions of euros were taxed by 15 per cent, that's not enough, and we've decided to return these taxes to the clubs, and we've made such legislation, and we've broken the principle of ademitismism. One of the most important provisions and regulations of our constitution, particularly fiscal discipline, was violated. Now, in chapter three, there's an arrangement that we think should never happen. This arrangement -- we're not opposed to the logic of the arrangement -- let's not be mistaken -- is an account called the single treasure account, or rather the single one account of the institutions. You know, there's a principle that the state has all its revenues and all its expenses are from the treasury and the budget, but every institution keeps its financial account in different places. Some institutions seriously have to be in debt to cover their resources at the bank, while some institutions have to be in debt to cover their expenses. In this case, it was possible to gain an advantage over short-term debt management by collecting accounts for all public institutions in a single bank account or a bank account or two. This arrangement was revived in 1995 at the time of the late Erbakan government, and later governments seriously applied it. It's the right thing to do, there's no mistake, it has to be done. So it's not possible for the government to accept a loan while waiting for the money somewhere else, which is not the right thing to do, but it's not an arrangement without considering the constitutional differences between public institutions. We have central government on one side, local governments on the other. Local governments are the administrations where the bodies to make their own decisions are elected according to the Constitution and its laws. The public selects these organs, and all decisions of these local governments are made by organs chosen by the people. So in this case, chosen by these and whose resources will be used by these, and will be described as financial autonomy, adding the money of local governments to the central management budget means that we don't actually operate the system that is being set up. Picture it in front of you, you're all from a county, you're from a municipality. Tomorrow, the mayor will take my money there, put it to bed, and I will go, and wait at the door, and they will not give it to me, and they will give it to you in line. They will wear out your door. This doesn't make any sense. Anyway, which city is swimming in more income in income, so you can bring it in and put it in this account and stack thousands of mayors downtown so they can get their money? According to the system brought in, the municipalities will deposit the extras here, and they will give a spending plan. At this time I will pay the price of this tender. I will buy this at this time. I will pay for the milk I have distributed at this time. They'll come, they won't get it. Look at the problem that's come up. The application of one treasure account is correct, it is wrong for local governments to be brought here; that's what we're saying. We call them dear friends, let's do the one treasure account, but don't put the municipalities into it, it'll cause us trouble, so technically, it'll create a serious problem of service. It's a shame, it's a shame, we're incapable of even mentioning such a thing. [[Applause from CHP rows]] There's another app in the bill that bothers us very much, dear friends. This Congress is lawmaker, and I'm not saying this as a physical situation right now, but in its metaphorical and real condition. This House is law-making, law-making. Laws also need to be in accordance with the Constitution. Our Constitution... is that we can't go against our Constitution, not against the rule of law, against the rule of law, or against the law. When making the laws of this Parliament, it takes its regulations on the basis directly, not even with the Constitution, but with universal law. The autonomy of local governments is a universal rule of law. You can't eliminate their autonomy by breaking this universal rule of law. The foundation of autonomy lies in financial autonomy. No institution without financial autonomy is an independent organization or autonomous organization, let's not deceive ourselves, that's the case. We hope the warning will be taken into consideration. The motion we have made regarding this is that municipalities -- which will be renegotiated when the relevant substances are discussed -- are excluded from the scope of the municipality. Dear friends, one last thing I'd like to bring to your attention. This preliminaries will be re-explained when the time comes. There's a hierarchy of laws in our law. First there's the Constitution, then there's the international agreements, under which we have laws, under which regulations come. That's the line you'll follow in law enforcement. So if this Parliament has made an arrangement to vote on an international agreement, you can only change it by altering that international agreement, not by making it a law here, not by changing the international agreement. What if we do? It doesn't make any sense, and we'll eliminate our credibility in international agreements. You have to do this. Therefore, in Article 89 of this bill, you will discuss it. Turkey made a deal with Japan and Russia over two nuclear plants. You approved these agreements as Congress. In particular, during the construction of the Akkuyu Nuclear Plant in Russia, the obligations to the parties were ranked one by one, and then it was said that the electricity of this plant would be purchased from 12.53 cents for fifteen years during these conditions. Is that the agreement? This. Now we're making another change with the law that we've brought in, and we're saying by law, "Ya, let this investment take advantage of the super incentives the state has brought for the fifth district." You can benefit, benefit, but you have to do it with international agreements and rethink that $12.53 cents. If you encourage 75 billion liras and all the incentives and still stay there for 12.53 cents, there's always a price to pay for your injustice to institutions that sell electricity to the state for four cents. It's disturbing that these arrangements are part of the bill that we support most of. This is not the place for these arrangements, this arrangement must be made elsewhere, it must be arranged differently.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0112par0041	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0111par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, my last word. What I'm trying to say is that if the regulations that we're making are being broken by breaking the Constitution and the system that the Constitution has brought, we need to seriously assess them. It was made with international agreements in violation of an established rule of law, which can't even be claimed to be in violation of the Constitution, as well as the Constitution. We have no right to an international agreement that cannot even be claimed to be contrary to the Constitution, and to improve the right by law or worsen it. I hope these will be considered in this arrangement. I salute the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0113par0047	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0114par0048	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0113par0049	Here you are, Mr. Ozkoç. I promise you according to 60.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0114par0052	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President, I want to tell you while the Minister is here. Studies in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are conducted within this system, with regulations, rules and understanding of each other and tolerance. We're trying to honor the agreements we make in the commissions. At times, our commissioners convey agreements to the members of the group, and they say: "The agreement has been reached on these articles, and the commissioner and the persons involved are in agreement on the withdrawal of these substances." We see that this issue, unfortunately, was not fulfilled in the matter of sports taxes. It may have been abandoned after negotiations with the government, but at least it's necessary to inform. Other than that, I'm sure all municipalities - including the AK PARTY municipalities - will be victimized in the 54th and 55th articles. We ask that this be reconsidered. Without international agreements, if we ourselves sign international agreements here and then make illegal laws here against them, then the validity of that is that we are disreputable in international areas. We need to be careful about these things, too. I'm asking you to keep us informed, and we'll try to help you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0115par0057	Thank you, Mr. Ozkoch. The third and final speaker for the group will now be İstanbul MP Garo Paylan on behalf of the Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Mr. Paylan, you have a request on behalf of the individuals, and I'm putting them together, and I'm giving you 15 minutes. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0116par0065	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, do you remember the '90s? Yes, the country was not well ruled in the 90s. There was no institutional development in terms of democracy, and there were many problems in the economy, my friends. And in the 90s, friends, you know, the country was in inflation, currency dry, interest helix. In those days, at the end of those years, you know, the DSP-MHP-ANAP coalition finally slammed the country against the wall, my friends. And we had a major crisis, a major crisis in 2001. Millions of our people are out of work, out of food, out of bread, friends. And over that great destruction, the AKP was building itself up in those years, and it took advantage of this great crisis and took power. And he promised that we wouldn't make the mistakes of the 90s. We're going to make the country a democratic country, there's going to be work, there's going to be work, there's going to be poverty, there's not going to be bans. He said, "We will join the European Union." And he made people believe it. Yes, foreign capital came and financed the country's current deficit in the early years of AKP power. Look, the AKP has created a $550 billion current account in its 17-year-old story. In the early years, 30 billion, 40 billion, 50 billion dollars were on the table, and it was funded. How was it financed, guys? One, he privatized it. He sold the country's bracelets. He privatized $10 billion. One, he financed it from here. Secondly, foreign capital came directly because there was a story of Turkey, which said: "We will become members of the European Union." We'll raise democratic standards. We're going to be a state of law. And a part of foreign capital believed it, came and invested it. That's how it was financed. And thirdly, we're in debt where it's not enough. We financed the cari deficit with hot money. Yes, in the early years, it was a salve to the wound, and in those years, it was a warning to politicians. This current is good for a certain period of time, but long-term damage to the country is said to be. As a matter of fact, my friends, you know, in 2009, the crisis, yes, the tangent has passed us, but that crisis has done a lot of damage - unemployment and the country's shrinking. Dear friends, the AKP has continued to open the deal, and unfortunately, in recent years, since it has been broken from the democratic story, ever since its dream of ruling the country with an authoritarian regime, its current current current deficit continues to pay off its budget deficit, but friends are still trying to finance it with almost zero direct investments, more debt. Look, the last number is $51.7 billion, open friends, for a year. This is equal to 6 percent of all the value we've created in one year, the illegitimate domestic product we've created in one year. Dear friends, we've been out $15 billion in the last two months. When you move it to the year, it means it's a $70-80 billion deal open. Dear friends, we haven't seen this since 1993 and 2000. It also happened at certain times in AKP power, but in both cases, the country slammed into the wall. For some reason, the last time he hit a wall, there was a coalition with the MPP. Today, the MPP and AKP have a coalition again. That's probably how this common mind came into play in the AKP-MHP's new coalition, and the country has been known to hit the wall once again in an economic sense. If necessary measures are not taken, I assure you we may face a major economic crisis because I still have to run an election economy, so here, let me continue this for another six months or sixteen months, let me just get through this election, and then maybe I'll take precautions. I'll look at it, and then I'll look at it, and it'll gas the election economy, and there's a war economy on the side of the election economy. The country's billions of dollars are being spent on war, not on good, and these two things are unfortunately pushing our country very, very hard, friends. Cari, the deficit has consequences. Look, you have Putin as a role model, and he's an authoritarian, totalitarian leader. But Russia, you know, has resources and gives more money. He says, "This is how I will rule the country." But you, with $550 billion on the table, when the country owes $450 billion, I'm going to manage the country in an authoritarian and totalitarian way. You can't say that. When you say that, it's no longer the state of law, and people who will invest in it will question it. Either they want more interest.....or friends, there's no legal security in your country. I'll lend you money, but... you know, we've already given up investments, no one's coming to invest, no direct capital... If he's coming, he wants more encouragement, and we'll see about that. And the lender, friend, is that you don't have a legal guarantee, and I'm going to lend you the dollar not with 4%, but with 7 per cent. And that would shorten the way for the country to fall into a crisis, friends and a country that gives the trade, friends, is not a free country. A debtor, always in debt, is not a free country. Cari, you may be clear, but how many manufacturing facilities have we built in exchange for $550 billion? Did we turn our country into a production economy, or did we just make it a country where we import and import and put people in malls, where we make their consumption and borrow money? Unfortunately, the second one. Our country is a country that imports and consumes malls, and it's unsustainable, we all know that, don't we? We all know it's unsustainable. Well, then, friends, it's imperative that we take immediate measures to the government and Parliament. America had turned on the money taps, the European Union had opened the money taps, and after the 2009 crisis, they poured trillions of dollars into the world; developing countries, countries like us, and countries like us, they took advantage of it. Yeah, well, it's obviously funded with this kind of hot money, but, guys, they're both cutting the taps this year. Who's the first to be impressed when the faucets are down, the money tap, the mill doesn't come back? Those with the most current deficits, the ones with the most debts, the ones without the production economy, the economies that depend solely on consumption, and unfortunately, we will be affected by that, my friends. When the economy went bad last year, you know, the power pulled a rabbit out of the hat, the Credit Guarantee Fund. And the Credit Guarantee Fund, my friends -- look, it's a year and a half experience -- turned into consumption. In terms of production and investment, people don't invest. Yeah, they increase their capacity, but they don't increase their investment. 250 billion liras became consumption from the Loan Guarantee Fund, and there are consequences, of course, of course, of course, of course, the current growth, inflation increased, and the exchange increased. We say these things to the government, and we say, "This is a dead end." When we said 3,40, it was 3,50, and look, today it was 3,95; it was 4,87 euros. Now, look, so far, the government's quiet, I'm going to say Moody. He's going to make a sound. When Mr. Moody said these things, Mr. Minister was sitting here two weeks ago, telling me what to do with Moody, Moody, Moody, we're throwing out Moody's report. That day, the dollar was 3.78. Moody's report was thrown out, today's $3.95, friends. What did Moody say? See, maybe you don't believe us when we say it; there's a corporate collapse. The people were saying that there's a collapse. They were saying that there's not even a Constitutional Court decision. When he said all that, he also said that the Central Bank's policies were not independent, that they were under the protection of power. The government that throws away all that talk is moving the dollar bill today to 3.95, as Mr. Recep pointed it out, to 4, my friends. What happens when you move into this four? Look, consumer confidence is starting to drop again. You know, the cortisone effect is over, the consumer confidence is dropping, and eventually, the crisis bells are ringing, my friends. I say we take a look at these. Once again, I warn you of your power. Believe me, I don't care what power is, because this power has done a lot of damage to this country. I want this power to change quickly, but I do know that the gentlemen will not pay the bill for a crisis, his followers will not pay, the poor will pay, my friends. Let me just give you an example of minimum wage. Last year we raised and raised asgarial wages. Yeah, a little bit went up and went up to 500 euros, and I'll tell you in return, it went up to 500 euros, 500 euros when the first minimum wage went up, when it was actually raised. Look, 325 euros today, friends, minimum wage today is 325 euros. Millions of minimum wage workers lose, you don't lose, gentlemen lose millions of minimum wage, lose the vaccine, lose the bread, shrink, become poor. Yes, election policies and war policies make poor, especially the low-income. But what is this covered with? It's covered in nationalist politics, envy. Unfortunately, the AKP's government also makes the poor pay for its wrong policies, but to prevent the poor from objecting, it's gassing nationalist policies, war policies, Hamaset policies, friends. Now, I'll give you my warnings on a few items in this relevant section, perhaps the Minister will reconsider. My friends, there are 2 critical clauses, which Mr. Zechariah Haziel has mentioned. I'll talk to you about some other stuff. Before the AKP came to power, the unemployment rate was 50% off-the-book, wasn't it, Mr. Secretary, close to 50%? And just before that there was an arrangement, they said: "The day you hired the worker, my friend, you can no longer report it. For in the 90s I became a worker and an employer. It was like this: you run the workers. You're asking the worker -- either those workers on the record -- when the insurance inspector came in today -- tell him that I got a job today. I got a job this week. Because then you had the right to report the worker in the same month, and the inspector would come and write the workers off the books, and he would go. The employer would make a ten-day notification, take it off after ten days, and keep it off the books again. Then, this day, the right to notification was lifted, and yet, look, we reduced our off-the-book unemployment rate to 33 percent. We're still at our worst in OECD countries. But look what our Minister of Labor has brought. You can now report employees between the ages of 18 and 25 on the same day, he says. I'll tell you what: employees over 25 will lose their jobs. The bosses are going to hire 18-25-year-old workers and say, "When the inspector comes in, you're going to say, "I'm in today. You're going to say, "I'm in today." And no inspector is going to be able to catch off the books. If you agree to this, say good-bye to this clause, or tell this power to withdraw this clause from the bill, my friends. Mr. Zechariah Mazel has pointed out, so I'll say a few words. The only treasure account, my friends, yes, is the right app. But there is a segregation of central power and local government. Now, central power, yes, may not want to watch public institutions' accounts in one account and pay more interest, that's true. But why are we looking for city money, guys? The municipalities are making their own budget. When they're budgeting for New Year's, they're also doing the interest account, they're making the payment plans, and the central administration is looking forward to its account. That's not true. Yes, we know the Treasury is trapped, we know the IRS is jammed, but let's not stare. There's another tragicomic substance, which says in this one treasure account: this single treasure account does not include the Unemployment Insurance Fund. Shall we all laugh together, Mr. Secretary? Look, in this bag, friends, the Minister of Finance has set his sights on 18 billion dollars from unemployment insurance. He calls it the only treasure account, not the genius. But with this bag, friends give their $18 billion to the bosses, giving them their money as an incentive. Because he has to give them like this, and he has to keep pushing this economy. There is another way. We're going to give up these war and election policies and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We're gonna have to take structural measures, guys. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0117par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0118par0086	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0117par0087	Here you go, Mr. Incescuz.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0118par0088	For the record, he said "war and election policies" in his speech. The HDP also does this from time to time in previous talks. We never accept that. We don't have a war policy. The fight against terrorism, the fight against terrorist organizations, and whatever it takes here, as a resource, the unity of this country is being transferred to the peace of geography, and it will continue to be transmitted until terrorist organizations are wiped out.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0117par0090	Thank you. Second and final speaker on behalf of individuals, İstanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Mr. Ünal, please. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0119par0095	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself in this section of the Bill of the Law on Amendments to certain Laws and Laws. I salute your high council. Dear lawmakers, the key to the brilliant political success of the EC PARTY is not just the knowledge of winning the hearts of large crowds. The bond of love he established in the elections has a role in the reforms of the public and the change in the outcome. As you know, during the AK PARTY administrations, Turkey carried out the biggest economic breakthroughs in our republic's history. During the 16-year period, the security and stability environment in our country has set the stage for the growth of the economy, the spread of prosperity, Turkey's stability to become more hopeful and brighter. With structural reforms during the EC PARTI administrations, our country has been separated in a positive way from developing countries through financial discipline and received macroeconomic measures that we have implemented in order to promote investment, production and employment, research, development, innovation and design activities, reducing tax harmonisation costs, encouraging transition to registered economies. Precious lawmakers, this bill has been set up to promote investment, production and employment, RD, innovation and design activities, support of amateur sports, enlargement of the tax base and uncertainty, increase the ease of doing business, improve economic life and savings, assess public transportation, promote energy efficiency and energy savings investments, improve the employment of children under protection and care. The bill was designed to effectively meet the needs of the country's economy. The bill is directed at the incentives of investment, production, exports and employment, which will strengthen the economy's growth on a sectoral basis, and includes comprehensive regulations expected by large communities. Dear lawmakers, the Turkish economy has achieved a record growth of 11.1 per cent in the third quarter of 2017, with the swift implementation of measures and reformary regulations imposed by the government in the face of our country's internal and external shocks, particularly the July 15th coup attempt, and the fact that the Turkish economy has reached a very rapid recovery, and that this will continue in our year as well as its growth rates in the OECD, G20 countries and the euro region. As part of the bill, arrangements for the use of the Unemployment Insurance Fund are intended for the purpose of boosting employment, with nearly 700,000 additional jobs in the manufacturing and IT sector for the first time in 2018 as part of contributions to private sector employers providing additional employment. There are also numerous provisions in the tax laws to allocate certain revenues to specific costs. The arrangements for sports clubs are intended to ensure that sports clubs who pay their taxes in full and on time can get these taxes back just to be used in amateur sports; it is evident that the arrangement is an important step towards increasing the resources assigned to amateur sports. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, as I put an end to my words, I wish you all the best of the bill we're discussing for our country and our nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0120par0103	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0121par0104	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0120par0105	Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0121par0106	Mr. President, just for the record, the Minister has stated that during his speech the AKP government has made the most radical investments in the history of the republic. If I were to count the factories that were built throughout Republic history, I'd still have to talk for 12 hours. But how many factories have been opened in 17 years of AKP history? However, how many people have been employed? We'd be very happy to have it explained, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0120par0107	Thank you. Congressmans, the speeches are complete. Now, we're going to do a question-and-answer procedure for 15 minutes. I'll make a promise to the lawmakers who have entered the system to ask questions in turns. Half the time will be a question and half will be an answer. Mr. Özdemir, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0122par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, I brought it up at last week's session, and I gave you a memo, pre-license graduates with 3173 qualifications... This is really important, and it has an emergency: there's a KPSS score that pre-license accounting graduates get, and many of them are 85 and over one point. They need to be appointed this June at the latest so they can use these points, and I really need you to make a decision to make this appointment... And I have a question, Mr. Secretary: these pre-license accounting graduates need at least 120 non-partners assigned. Since it's the accounting department, the joint staffing of many departments is a victim of our students in this department. I've brought this up for your information, and I wanted to bring it up again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0123par0115	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0124par0116	Mr. Secretary, as the opposition, we are fighting to stop the privatisation of sugar factories, you know, but today we have heard a truly conscientious voice from a member of the ruling party. Administrator Çorum MP Salim Besli said he thought bureaucrats had misled and misled the government regarding the privatisation of sugar factories. What bureaucrats are fooling you about this, Mr. Secretary? He said that the privatisation of sugar factories was wrong, Mr. Goody, and he said that sugar factories don't hurt. A ruling party MP is probably getting more information from us. In that sense, please inform us of reality and the fact that it's not damaged. Do you still persist in your stubbornness? Do you still insist on selling the sugar factories, while the opposition is against all lawmakers?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0123par0117	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0125par0118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you've changed the education system over 16 years and turned it into a puzzle board. Our children's lives turned into nightmares. And now the teachers are getting performance reviews, and with this system, students give notes to the teacher, things like snitching. In this way, our teachers are pushed away from solidarity, from free thinking, away from science with a truly competitive understanding -- teaching, not questioning, adapting, obeying. Trade unions from all opinions have gathered and expressed their objections and say it will cause teachers to worry and not be able to do their job. Do you think you can solve the problems of education with this performance system? Why is such a system being brought in? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0126par0121	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0127par0122	Mr. Minister, our citizens who work in farming and livestock, who try to earn their living, who grow, produce, produce, feed, feed, feed their animals, feed their milk, who, through the wrong policies of the government, the product, the animal that they grow, the animal that they feed, are in debt to banks and unions. Fertilizer, medicine, diesel, seed, bait and loan debts are being delayed and interest debts are being wiped out, asking our citizens for a breath of air. It's up to you to give our citizens a breath. We demand that you release our citizen from interest and loan shark printing. Our farmer, our feeder, is the manufacturer of this country. It's the social government's job to be there for the manufacturer. We know the people who run the social government will do it in the best possible way, and we demand that you do, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0126par0123	Mr. Kusoglu... Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0128par0125	I'm asking the Minister of Finance: 1) We have thousands of chemists working in our country, and when they retire, they get a very low salary. So when are you going to make sure that the pay indicators are raised from 3,000 to 3,600? 2) Your police colleagues have the same problem, and when they retire, they get a very low salary. Do you also plan to increase the indicators of the police from 3,000 to 3,600 in the new year? 3) Medical personnel work for hours without working overtime, working hard. Do you therefore think that each health worker should be given a specific right to wear out? 4) The inflation is said to have dropped, but the price increases continue rapidly. Why is that? 5) The MDF, used by furniture makers for lockers, is worth $150-160 six months ago, while today 200 Turkish liras are hard to get. Why is that? In exchange for these prices, the furniture makers...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0129par0132	Mr. Bektaşoglu...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0130par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. At the same time, the 18th of March, which we celebrated as Martyrs' Day, the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale was on Friday last year, but the name of Ataturk was not included in the prayer section of the Hutbahs sent to our mosques by the President of the Religious Affairs. This year, the president of the Diabetes Department did not participate in his speeches and prayers at the ceremonies in Çanakkale. I condemn those who have seen too much of a prayer to Ataturk, the Hero of the Anafartas, and to God, who have played an active role in gaining victory by making him invincible, thus saving our religion, our oppressor, our flag, and our homeland. May God have mercy on our martyrs who have honored us with the victory of Çanakkale. Let no one try to despise and ignore Çanakkale. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0131par0138	Mr. Tanal, for the last time, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0132par0139	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, of course it has nothing to do with this matter, but people are really victims; power has been out in the districts for three days. Second: The sewer pipe of Innaplı village in the District of Birecik, Şanlıurfa Province, has exploded. Because that water drain wasn't built -- and the sewage pipe of the villages of Altinova and Farms that were found at the end -- is connected to it -- and because the stench is spreading out, the trees are there and the children are getting sick because they're playing with sewage water. I mean, if it's possible, I'd like to ask you to let the residents of the Innap village of Şanliurfa Metropolitan Mayor take care of their victims as soon as possible. And at the same time, there's a dog shelter in our Düzce province right now. Our village citizens are a victim of health. I'd like to ask you to relieve the victims of the Dizes, and I'd like to pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0133par0143	Thank you. Mr. Kuyoglu, I think you've arrived. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0134par0146	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, according to configuration laws 7020 and 6736, the amount of tax and insurance premium collections are now in question, we'd appreciate it if you could give us some information. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0135par0149	Thank you. Now to answer the questions, I'll leave the word to our Finance Minister, Mr. Naci Agbal. Here you are, Mr. Agbal.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0152	Mr. President, thank you. First of all, although I'm the last, I'd like to answer Mr. Kuyoğlu's question based on the latest information I have. So far, under the laws of restructuring, social security premiums and tax collection have reached a total of $37 billion. We really thank all of our citizens, our taxpayers, both under Law 6736 and Law 7020, who are very careful to pay their installments, and so I can tell you that the collection rate is high as well as the installments that have come up so far.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0137par0154	How much are the bonuses?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0155	37 billion is now...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0137par0156	Prices and taxes...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0157	All of them, including the bonus, have reached 37 billion, 881 million liras. Mr. Özdemir, in fact, you asked me correctly last time, so I passed on your note to my friends. I've told my friends again, I'll bring you this note, this information, and I'll share it here today. I'm sorry. I mean, your sensitivity to this is a legitimate sentiment, and hopefully we'll share it today.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0138par0159	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0160	Mr. Paylan Çorum has made an assessment of Salim Besli Bey's statement of course.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0139par0161	But he's right.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0162	I respect all of our deputy's assessments, their own assessments, and it would be wrong for me to make an assessment of that issue here, not for political courtesy or morality. But if, of course, you're taking a matter out of context and meaning and you're doing a political opportunism, I resent that, Mr. Paylan, don't do politics like that, so please do politics in the political sense.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0140par0163	There's bullying, Mr. President, and I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0139par0164	Is he right or wrong?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0165	Mr. Kayishoglu, regarding a performance review of the education system...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0141par0166	He's not the one who said it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0139par0167	It's not Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0168	I don't know much about the work of the Ministry of National Education.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0142par0169	Mr. Secretary, answer me, are you still stubborn?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0143par0170	You don't say anything to anyone who says anything, but he said so. You say so to him who says so.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0171	If you don't mind, I'll share your assessments with the Ministry of National Education. But as a result, at the point where the educational system develops in both quality and quantity, we've been doing a great deal of work for 16 years as a government on increasing the number of teachers and the use of technology in education, the quality of education and education. The performance system is a system with applications in other countries. Of course, the sensibilities you've expressed are common sensibilities for all of us. Even if the performance system is to be put into practice, there should be no way in hell that the care you're saying can produce results. I think our Ministry of National Education has those sensibilities. Mr. Zeybek, I can tell you that we've always been there for our farmer, with both the opportunities for agricultural support that we've provided for 16 years, and with the way we've been able to construct the debt from time to time, we've always been there for our farmer. We're always with our farmer, we're talking, we're dealing with problems. In that sense, whatever it takes in all respects, we'll do as we've done so far. They've touched on a fundamental issue about the staff system, Mr. Arslan, so this additional indicator concerns a number of public officials, a major factor that affects the pension of people, even though the additional indicator from 3,000 to 3,600 is being moved from 3,600 to 4,800. Here, of course, we need to make all of these arrangements in a state of integrity. Here, for 16 years, at the point of increasing the rights of public personnel, at the point of realising their income, we have passed very important regulations as a government.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0144par0174	It wasn't about the police.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0175	Our officer's salary has always increased in this period and has increased in real terms. I have to say the same thing about pensions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0144par0176	He noticed 46 liras at the police station.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0177	Here, Mr. Tanal, in his own way, is trying to add a dimension to the issue, but we're at all dimensions and we're at all dimensions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0144par0178	What did I bring up, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0179	Mr. Bektaşoglu Mr. Bektasoglu, it is no one's place to ignore and despise Çanakkale in any way; I mean, there is no way that this could happen; as a government, as a party, we are all sensitive about these things as a nation. And I don't know in what context you're explaining this in, but let me tell you this: let's not make political polemics out of the issues that we all have in common, which have common sensitivity and common values, and I'd like to say that in particular.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0145par0181	But a prayer, a prayer.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0136par0182	Mr. Tanal Şanlıurfa, Mardin and Düzce have expressed their sensitivity to certain issues, and I will tell my friends. The governors are bound to follow up, but we'll inform the governors about the issues you're pointing out here. I answered Mr. Kusoglu's question. And finally, it was pointed out a little bit earlier about investments, and I have to say, of course, all the governments that came through the republic have served this nation with their lives, it's a service race; all governments have put stones on stones, done business. Of course, what will every government do with what they've done? He'll tell you. So we're going out to our nation, so that's the end of our education until 2002, and that's what we've done in this period. We say, "This is what we've done in substructure, this is what we've done." From that point on, the beauty of democracy here, what we've done, what we haven't done, we're all going to tell the people, and ultimately, the great Turkish nation will be the referee. From that point on, we all thank and thank all the governments, all the political parties who are doing all these services here, making all these investments. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0146par0186	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0187	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0148par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0146par0189	Here you go, Mr. Paylan.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0190	And you listened, and he made an obvious taunt, Mr. Secretary, and I'd like to respond.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0146par0191	He said political morality, but...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0192	That I've twisted, political immorality...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0146par0193	If you'd like...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0194	Please, there's teasing, there's an open taunt.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0146par0195	Okay, here you go. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0199	Thank you, Mr. President. The government has a habit of saying that I am the 316 MPs, and they cannot criticize me, and I do not listen to the rest of the opposition parties, and I read what I know. Look, we're representatives of the nation, we're representatives of 81 million, we're all representatives of Turkey, and our job is to control this administration, balance it, tell its mistakes. Salim said what we said. Look, we've been out of hair for a month now, and we were saying: "The privatisation of sugar factories is wrong. " The sugar mills don't do any harm. We say, Salim Nice of AKP said the same thing, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0149par0203	He's right.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0147par0204	And the bureaucrats misdirected it. That's not what we said. One more thing we've learned, the bureaucrats have been misdirecting the government. Thank you, Salim. And the opposition of power, look, if 550 MPs could speak today, Mr. Secretary, let's not sell any sugar factories. And this power is stubborn. Why? I just told you, he needs to continue his war policies, continue his election policy. The sea's gone, the resources are gone, the goods are gone, the sugar mills are coveted by this power. Guys, let's stop him as 550. Millions of our people eat bread from those factories, directly or indirectly. It's our duty, the opposition of power; let's sign a joint statement here, you can't sell sugar factories. Let's say friends. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0150par0209	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0151par0210	Just a moment, Mr. Tanal. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0152par0215	Mr. Orator says we're implementing war policies in his words. Again, our Deputy Leader of the Group has just told us that, no matter where he comes from, no matter where he comes from, no matter where he comes from, we have fought against any terror nest, as a nation, as a country, as a state, as a government, to the end, and we will continue to fight until the last terrorist is destroyed, and this struggle will continue, but it will continue, and it will not be insisted on, but it's the understanding that does not condemn these terrorist organizations. No one believes that either.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0153par0217	Come to the sugar mills, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0154par0218	So what's this about?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0153par0219	Hamaset, eunuch.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0220	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0156par0221	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0222	Mr. Tanal, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0157par0223	The subject was different. I mean, what are you talking about, what are you talking about?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0158par0224	Why are you offended? Is that you? I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0225	Wait a second, I promised Mr. Tanal. I'm listening.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0226	My dear President, as Mr. Secretary answers our questions -- the additional indicator for the police at that time -- I said, there was a difference of £3000, not a lot of pay raises. When Mr. Secretary answers, he says, "Mahmut Tanal himself is adding a dimension to it." It's like I made an unrealistic statement, underestimating me...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0158par0227	Absolutely not. I don't accept it. Not at all, not at all. I mean, I definitely don't accept it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0228	No, no, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0229	Because of this bullying, I'm not going to be able to...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0230	It's on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0231	I'm sorry, I'm not...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0232	It's on the record. You've said your piece, Mr. Tanal.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0233	It's not. Look, to make that clear...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0234	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0235	I want to talk about my place or the bench because of the bullying.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0236	Now, members of the law...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0237	Mr. President, Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0238	Please, Mr. Tanal... look, I promise you all the time, but... it's on the record, you said it, it's on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0239	But then let's tell the truth.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0240	Here.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0241	The truth is, now, the additional indicator of the police officers had previously been 2,200, Minister. When he rose from 2,200 to 3,000, he noticed 46 liras in their wages. Now the petty officers doing the same job -- doing the same job -- 3600. The police are doing it, it's an additional 3000. So even though the same task, the same job, even the police's task is more severe, there's a huge difference both in retirement and in actual, current salaries. The introduction of this to 3,600 · Global Voices is in accordance with the principles of equality in Article 10 of the Constitution.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0242	Thank you. It's on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0160par0243	I assume the Minister will answer.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0159par0244	The Minister will have an answer, I think, to clarify.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0248	Now, lawmakers, the talks on chapter three are complete. I'll submit the clauses in the third section to your separate votes after I've processed the motion on that clause if there is one. There are two motions on the 50th article, which I will read and process according to the order of contradiction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 50 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0161par0260	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0261	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0162par0262	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0155par0263	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Congressmans, I will not extend the motion talks, please end the deadline. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0163par0267	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, every time the government is in a jam, unfortunately, it's a cheap host. Look, it concerns all of us, like the sugar mills, about the 81 million, unfortunately, you saw, the power made a cheap hammock, couldn't even stand the criticisms of an AKP MP. But we're 550 deputies thinking the same thing, we don't want our sugar factories to be sold. As a part of the government's silence, I dropped the starch-based sugar to 5 percent. What's the use of reducing it to 5 percent? How are you going to supervise it? Velev produced a starch-based sugar factory, built its full capacity, sold it to factories; how do you control 5 percent? That's the story. They gave me a cut of the silence, guys. It's not true. What we need to do is continue to produce beet-based sugar that doesn't threaten the health of all of us and do it by public hand, making our non-destructive factories work. Now for the item. There's a liquefied natural gas market, you know, friends, and we take liquidated natural gas from Russia, from Azerbaijan, Iran, and also from certain countries. Now, the power says that sometimes winter is very hard and I get stuck in natural gas. Give me the authority, and I can get gas from the spot market. Look, I'll take it. He doesn't say, "Let me get it." He says, "I'll take it." He says, "I'll give it to some companies." He's gonna authorize eight firms. Dear friends, we doubt it. What are these 8 companies going to be? Since the Energy Minister didn't collect his own residency commission and inform the members of the Energy Commission on such an important matter, we have to look for a calf under the ox, my dear friends. I'd like to ask you to withdraw this clause and discuss it with the relevant fellowship commission; let the Minister of Energy come and inform the Energy Commission. This clause is necessary for this, and I will set these 8 companies in this way; they will not be the supporting companies. Let them say, and let them come and persuade us. There's one more thing. Let's say we get 400 dollars of natural gas with a long-term contract, but in the spotlight market, sometimes in the current market, the price of natural gas can go down to $300, 250 dollars, and companies that can be ally can get 250 dollars of natural gas when Turkey buys $400 of natural gas, and to whom will the profit be written, friends or to whom will the damage be written? It'll go for 81 million. In that regard, friends, we need to run the relevant fellowship commissions, and in those commissions, the Minister of Energy should come in and give information, account, provide the grounds for removing this clause, and, according to him, those powers should be given. Let's not give away these powers in the lack of legislature, there's 81 million in it, folks, every penny. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0164par0275	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 50 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner, as follows, by the tax laws of 533 which are in session, and by some Laws and Laws. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Selina Doğan Gibraltar Özdemir Murat Minister Article 50 of Articles 18/4/2001 and Article 4 of Article 4 of Article 4 of Natural Gas Market Law 4646 have been changed in the following way. "But these provisions are not applied for imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG), spot pipe gas and compressed natural gas (CNG). In addition, the import of the spot liquefied natural gas (LNG), spot pipe gas and compressed natural gas (CNG) does not seek the conditions specified in the first paragraph, which follows Article 4 of the Law's fourth joke (2), (3) and (4). The amount of spot pipe gas imports and implementation that can be made in a calendar year is taken into consideration by the Ministry units and determined by the Council. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0165par0289	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0164par0290	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0166par0291	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0164par0292	İzmir MP Murat Minister will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0167par0295	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my words, the martyr Sergeant Sergen Çakmak, who was sent away on his last journey to İzmir, I offer my condolences to our brother, Allah's mercy, his grieving family, and the Turkish nation. Dear friends, as of today, our army has successfully completed an operation in Syria's Afrin region. In the wake of a two-month struggle, the city of Afrin was seized without the need for any local conflict. I hereby congratulate our army on the mercy of God to 46 of our fallen soldiers in Operation Afrin, and my condolences to our entire nation again. We, the Republican People's Party, supported this operation with the intention of protecting our national interests, and we did not immediately wish for autonomous territory under the control of the Kurdistan Workers' Party. So, what happened to this point, when our borders got to the YPG, and we had to operate in Syria? Let's remember the past together: when the civil war started in Syria in 2011, you went mad as if you were trying to overthrow Assad's power, and in three hours we entered Damascus. You said, you dreamed of praying in Emevi Mosque; you allowed jihadist terrorists from all over the world to go to Syria. Syria has turned into hell, 4 million Syrians have fled from war, harassment, rape, and sheltered in our country. In Syria, you invited the former YPG leader Salih Müslim (YPG) to Ankara to fight against the regime, and today, why is he not arrested in Europe? When jihadist terrorists from various parts of the world bled the country, Assad withdrew his army from the northern part of the country and handed it over to the YPG, and this false foreign policy forced us to face a PKK-guided autonomy in northern Syria, just as Assad made it difficult to overthrow. Basically, the actual situation we're trying to eliminate today is due to the incompetent foreign policy of power. That's exactly why it's the power's responsibility to have 46 of our soldiers killed. Had your ambition to overthrow Assad not blinded you, therefore had it not been for a lack of authority in Syria, we would not have faced a PKK-led autonomy, nor would we have needed Operation Fırat Shield earlier, nor Operation Olive Dallı, nor would we have given dozens of martyrs and wounded. Now, these operations that you've raised with envy are the price of your past mistakes, friends, the price of our foreign policy that you've broken. We have been informed that on March 15th, the YPGs left Afrin (Afrin) along with civilians, and on March 16th, there were no YPG elements left to resist the centre of Afrin. The question then comes to mind: Why did our army wait two days for March 18th to enter Afrin? It seems that the victory of Afrin is being brought to the anniversary of the victory of Çanakkale, and a political victory is being achieved over the military victory of our army. Dear friends, as the CHP Group, we have been warning the government that Operation Afrin will not be drawn to the political ground for nearly two months, not to be used for these purposes, but as we see at the end of the operation, the operation is being used to provide political means. The security of our country and our borders is being used to the political interests of power, and the power's hand is being strengthened in a possible election. Moreover, our army is not carrying out these operations on its own, it is acting with the undetermined militia under the name "SSO," it is being pushed into a unfair position that our army does not deserve as if it is underprivileged. We have warned the government over and over again that these are jihadist elements. Note that the news from Afrin and the news from Afrin is not pleasant. The allegations are that S.E.S.O. militants are looting. The government must immediately investigate these allegations and take the necessary measures. But never think of such actions as individual and impulsive behavior. The jihadist elements don't act individually, they see the property of civilians in their possession as spoils and the people as prisoners and prisoners, that's the real thing, and don't get involved with the jihadists, friends who are going to be a huge pain in our ass. Dear friends, I am warning you that our country must immediately return to a cautious, peaceful foreign policy of peace with its neighbours, which is the basis of peace in the land. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0306	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 50th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Süyöz, you have entered the system. Here you are. I give you my word according to the Civil Code of 60.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0169par0312	Mr. President, we've met with our Secretary of Defense, who has been told this before by some orators. It's been said that he's been looting there for several days. We specifically want to point out that together there, the Turkish Armed Forces and the OSO (Free Syrian Army) have fought with terror, terrorist organizations, terrorist elements, a heroic epic. I'd like to make that very clear. In particular, we've asked again about this looting issue, and there's no such element here in any way, there's no sign of it, and our Secretary of Defense has given us clear information that there's been no looting. The declarations, such as the earlier terrorist element of the Free Syrian Army, were made by lawmakers of this Parliament. The mentality that can't call YPG a terrorist is the terrorist element of the Free Syrian Army... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you open it, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0315	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0169par0316	We're all going through what we've seen together, unfortunately, with no need to look for evidence to accuse the Free Syrian Army of being a terrorist. This was especially well-informed by the public, and after the operation there, the Turkish Armed Forces actually won a victory with the Free Syrian Army. Yes, in the 103th year of the victory of Çanakkale, we must not cast a shadow on this; if we are to say anything, we must say it not directly, but directly. With perceptions of maturity, in any way, it's the true embodiment that we shouldn't do that. This is Operation Afrin with any kind of political internal material... Turkey is going through a lot of historical processes today, going through the time when our national and national nation is the legacy of our country. So, did we tell you to give America 5,000 trucks, weapons, or ammunition? Did we tell them to dig tunnels in there? What were those preparations made for? Let's talk about the truth. No one here is making a eunuch. It's the survival of our country and our nation.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0317	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0170par0318	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0319	Mr. Secretary...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0170par0320	The Deputy Director of Justice and Development Party has just spoken to me in his speech, and those who can't call YPG a terrorist are making an assessment of the OSO.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0321	No, Mr. Secretary, he didn't.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0171par0322	I'm not talking to you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0170par0323	Fix it or I'll answer it.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0324	He already said he didn't.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0171par0325	Mr. President, I said, "I'm an MP in this Parliament." It's obvious I didn't mean him, I know exactly what I'm talking about.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0326	There's nothing personal about you. Thank you. Now there are two motions on Article 51: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Article 51 of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. With all due respect. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Selina Doğan Gibraltar Özdemir Çetin Arık In Article 51-26/6/2001, Article 4691 of Technology Development Areas Act 4691, the second amendment to "contracting these rights into the conditions of registration, registration or notification within the framework of the relevant legislation," the statement stated, "In accordance with the nature of these rights, in accordance with the extent of the application of the AR-Ge activities, and in accordance with the conditions of registration or registration of the relevant legislation, including the application of the notification of the tax period of the earnings from the exception, or the application of the notification period for the duration of the registration or registration of the registration of the registration period. "If the registration, registration or notification is not met under the specified basis, the tax, tax fines which have not been imposed in time will be collected without delay interest." Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0172par0344	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0345	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0173par0346	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0168par0347	It's Bolu MP Tanju Özcan who wants a word on the motion. Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0174par0350	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, after a long break, I salute you from the General Assembly's bench. You know, I'm trying not to take the stand this semester as much as possible, unless it's a big deal. Well, you know I don't like idle talk.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0175par0352	Are we talking nonsense here? It's a shame!
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0174par0353	That's why I've been promised a historic warning here today. Now, members of lawmakers, I'm going to give you a historic warning. It's serious. Now you have a congressman, Mr. Shamil Tayyar. Is he here? Now Shamil Tayyar is an important member of your group. How do I know that? He has a show every week on a side channel, doesn't he? A congressman authorized to speak on behalf of your party. What did he say on a TV show the other day? I agree with most of them, I'll tell you that. He says the Attorney General is being threatened. The attorney general was pressured to read the books of Gaziantep and decided not to follow the chief physician who was published in Gaziantep. It's very important. You're saying that... you have a claim that we're fighting the case. Mr. Secretary, look, listen carefully. We're fighting the fucking government. You're saying that a deputy of yours came out and started a stock exchange. A million dollars is an evacuation, he says. I'm not saying that. I know that's the way it is. I couldn't agree more. Look, it's the evacuation that gives you the million dollars. How do they evacuate? He says, and he tells the details. They're making them confessors, he says. There's been so many confessions, he's telling the truth. I don't understand what they're confessing to. Mr. Secretary, have you ever followed these confessors? What are they saying that the government doesn't know, that the President doesn't know, that we don't? He's not saying anything. So they're one of those guys who gives the money and blows the whistle. They'll give you the money and blow the whistle... Look, he's saying worse things next, Mr. Tayyar. The President is surrounded, he says. He's talking about a recording, he's talking about an image, or he's talking about a recording. I've given this to all of Mr. President's advisors for a year. He says, "Listen and watch this," he says. He says, "But they didn't show it to the President for a year." When I showed it to Mr. President -- I'm telling you from his own mouth -- he went crazy. He says, "He's gone crazy." He's talking about a recording of Å. She's gone mad. She says. Now, Mr. Lawmakers, look, I'm sure our President will listen to this. If his advisors tell him, I doubt they will not... there have been these conversations in the past, and in the past, the President has been surrounded. There have been those who have said so. But what happened? Three of the five nearest deputies came out of Mr. President's office. Now I'm asking you, how many advisors does Mr. President have, I don't know. I don't know if any of you know the exact number. But Shamil Tayyar says that an important record that I sent is not being delivered to the President by his advisors. God knows how many of these advisors will know if three of the five aides the President has appointed and appointed after 17-25. That's why I'm telling you, lawmakers. Look, when Mr. Tayyar was saying this, I also filed a written complaint. He says, verbally, I'm the MP, the complaint that came out of my mouth was not accepted. But I think you're really insincere about it. What did Mehmet Metiner say on the 15th of July, on the 1st anniversary, in the garden of the House? There are two former ministers sitting in the same line as Mr. President. He wrote it, he wrote it. We picked on him from here, so we said, "Tell me about it." He wouldn't let her explain that the AKP's Deputy Speaker, I don't mean you. Guys, where are you going? What are you doing? You're being very insincere about the fight against Å. Look, what your own MP says, a prosecutor in Turkey won't take a tip, and he won't even go for it. I'm also speaking to my fellow HSK Vice President from here. Look, a deputy is second in line, the second- AKP MP gives warnings, talks about concrete events, talks about former ministers, says the ministers of ا. The current MP, the current MP Shamil Tayyar, says he is being coerced by the Attorney General of Gazaantep and is being decided not to follow him. Where are the honest prosecutors of this country? I'm curious about the answer to that. And I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0176par0365	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0174par0366	Mr. President, isn't there any bullying here?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0176par0367	I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the statement in the second joke of Law Bill 533 shall be changed in the form of the second one, which is included in Article 51. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0177par0377	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0176par0378	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0178par0379	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0176par0380	İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu has asked for a statement on the motion. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0179par0383	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, yesterday March 19th, were the 500th day of the November 4th political coup. There have been 395 hearings of arrested lawmakers in this 500 days alone. There was a trial almost every day. 185 of them are the trials of Demirtaş and Figen Yüksekdağ. Even this statistic alone has once again revealed that the purpose of the constitutional immunity arrangement against the Constitution is the HDP. I was present last Friday at the hearing of Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş and Sırrı Sırrıyya Ölleya. And I watched that hearing. There, we saw how the judgment really endeavored to carry out its purposes, and we saw it very closely. And, of course, friends, in all this time, in five hundred days, we haven't seen a single AKP MP or MP from the MP from the MP from the MP from the MP from the MP from the MP from the AKP. So the judgment actually works for us. Now, you built huge palaces of justice in the city centers, so you called them the Court of Justice. In fact, when I look at the palaces under her fingernails, as a lawyer, I truly regret it. Because it's not something to do with our deputies, but the citizen is kept in queues at his door, and he's always, you know, especially after 9/11 attacks in the U.S., you've created buildings in the security, security, security, security, security that he's been through, and he's afraid to get into justice, so he's afraid to get to justice, so he's going to get to justice, and then he's going to be judged, but you've created buildings that he's afraid to set foot there. Okay, you built these buildings. There is one in Istanbul, and one in Catalan, and one in Kartal, and you have built two great buildings. Well, why don't you judge the palaces of these palaces of justice, the palaces you call the palaces of Judeatin Demirtaş? It was done in an unreliable, fitness-like place, in the middle of a field, in the middle of a gym, in the middle of our co-Chair's trial, so that people wouldn't be able to get there, really, lawyers wouldn't be able to come, citizens wouldn't be able to come. Of course, people did, of course, but if you call it justice, then there really is nothing left in this country for justice. The court delegation was a young delegation, about 35 years of age, and unfortunately this young delegation was actually instructed to punish the youngest leader of Turkey. He's always on the phone, he's afraid to make a decision, and he's actually coming in there with a decision, because he's quick to make the trial a political ban... because you've entered an election strategy, which is why you've made our arrested MPs especially politically forbidden, and you're trying to go to the elections without them as soon as possible, to reduce us even more, and that's the epitome of it. We didn't see justice in that trial, we never saw judgment. He's being tried for one conversation, two of our MPs, Demirtaş and Sırrı Sırrıyya Önder and that speech... there are lawmakers here, I say a little bit, but if a person is being tried for a conversation, shouldn't that text be in the file? A decrypted text filled with dot marks was placed there, and even that request -- decrypt the speech text with the expert's ability and the speech text in this form -- was rejected by the court committee. I mean, it's days without justice, but unfortunately, you don't care. I don't know what you think one day when you need it. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit04spe0180par0392	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 51st Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Group, I'd like to invite the Vice President and Madam Secretary to have tea. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0180par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 52: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 52 of the Bill of the Law be changed in the following way. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Kemal Zeybek Çetin Arık Selina Doğan ADDDE 52-29/6/2001, and the following article has been added to the Law on the Evaluation of Unmovable Property of Treasure 4706 and the Amendment to the Adding Value Tax Act. "Agricultural co-ops for agricultural production, agricultural sales co-ops and agricultural producers can be rented directly through 20 years from one percent of the main value in Article 63 of the Law 492 to the top companies. The Ministry of Finance is in charge of determining the procedures and foundations for the implementation of this clause. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0181par0017	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0180par0018	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0182par0019	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0180par0020	Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek will speak on the motion. Mr. Zeybek, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0183par0023	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you all. The bag bill 533 is the law on subsidizing the treasury's assets for agricultural production, agricultural sales co-ops and agricultural producers to make agricultural production. Of course, what we understand from this law is that before that, the government sold farms, farms, production farms, which the government owned, but now it's time for the peasant's pasture. In fact, the purpose of this law, the purpose of doing it, is to put the peasant's yard on the market, to rent it out. That's why it's the law... that our peasants are already using this field amongst themselves... to feed and sow their own animals. Who are you going to take these mera fields and give them to? We can't help but ask the government here. Now, we know you're not on the farmer's side. You've been importing all kinds of grain for years, 15 or 16 years. Ten years ago, wheat production in Turkey dropped to 9 million hectares in 2017 to 7700,000 hectares in 2017. You import nohudu. The chickpea plantation was reduced by 46 percent last year, so 350,000 hectares of chickpeas were planted, while in 2017 there were 180,000 hectares. According to Turkey's TÜİK (TİK) research, the number fell to 38 million hectares in 2010 when there were 41,200,000 fields in 2005. Now, TÜİK makes such a statement from one side, and the Ministry of Agriculture says that we have 27 million hectares. These areas are reduced to 23 million hectares. Now, in the functioning of the state, if the Ministry speaks like that in its work, if the TİK speaks like that, what will this citizen believe in you? So all of this can be managed in some way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way? The state has a rule that the government has to be presented to the public at the point of numbers, the domes, the units, the decimals. Now, on the other hand, for years, our citizen has been leaving the plantations empty. Why does he leave it blank? When he can't profit from his crops, he emigrates to the city. You're the one who provided this, leaving the production fields empty. I'd like to sort it out here, actually. In 2016, 4,000 tons of chickpea imports were imported, while in 2017 it increased to 11,000 tonnes, while we had 3,000 tonnes of dry beans imported, up to 11,000 tonnes in 2017, so 267 per cent increased. We don't plant beans, we don't plant noju, we don't plant lentils, we don't sow barley, we don't sow wheat, we've become imports. How can you be with the farmer in such a situation? You're good at imports right now, but exports are now disintegrating onion producers, potato producers, garlic manufacturers in storage. Aren't you going to be next to the manufacturer, next to the exporter? Aren't you going to support exports? He is now rotting in potato warehouses in Nevşehir. In Çorum, Eskişehir, Iconya, Turkey's various regions, the onion manufacturer rots in their warehouses. And that happens with your apps. In earlier years, all of our products were exported to the heart of the Middle East. Azerbaijan doesn't take our product, Georgia doesn't, Syria doesn't, Iraq doesn't. Who are we going to sell these products to? It needs to be supported while producing, and it's you who don't. So far, the AKP governments have done this. Mr. Producer, I think you should know that he's going to do this from now on. I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0184par0031	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 52 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0185par0042	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0184par0043	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0186par0044	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0184par0045	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0187par0048	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to Article 52 of Bag Bill 533. I salute you all. This clause envisions an amendment to the Law and Value Tax Act on the Evaluation of the Unmovable Property of Treasure 4706, which is added to the additional 5th Amendment. The aim of this change or supplement is to rent out for 20 years the deposits of treasure for agricultural loans co-ops, agricultural companies, and agricultural sales co-ops for agricultural production. Of course, with this arrangement, it actually seems to be the development of the agricultural sector; the development of agricultural loan cooperatives or agricultural producers, and the loan of agricultural land belonging to their top corporations for 20 years. Now, of course, if it's really possible to get the desired result in the application, that's what's being targeted with this arrangement to see if it's possible to develop agricultural development. Again, the rent price of the subsidiaries will be set at a price on the value specified in Article 632. Now, there's a serious problem here, actually, which is that, now, in different parts of Turkey, there's a different kind of Rantability of land that belongs to the treasury at a random level. Therefore, the difference between the amount of land that will be leased for 20 years, for example, in the year it was rented in Istanbul, and the value of track value in the following year or a few years will be tremendous because it is much more random. For example, in the east, a reverse process may occur, so the value of that property may drop even more after two years, after you've constantly migrated through value or property value this year and there's no chance of agricultural input. There is a serious problem in this sense, so there is a serious problem or a serious problem in the difference between these real estate values in different parts of Turkey. I think it's a fixed value that should be based on a constant value, and renting it for 20 years on a fixed track value can contribute to this agricultural development. Again, the missing thing here was that it was actually rented to agricultural troops, cooperatives and so forth, treasure land, but our citizens in Turkey, who are actually dealing with hundreds of thousands of farms, are actually running treasure fields or in a zillions. So this opportunity is given to institutions -- agricultural loan co-ops, agricultural sales co-ops, or superior units -- but it's not really the kind of opportunity that citizens who actually run agricultural activity pay the state every year, but they're actually collecting money every year through accretional value. If the goal is to improve agriculture, it is useful for citizens to be recognised, and it will be a more accurate arrangement. Now, we said that it's not safe to have the land open and the property tax on the basis, so there should be an objective criteria here. Again, you have to see what agriculture has become in this country when you're trying to improve agriculture. So there's a lot of talk about the sale of sugar factories right now. Twenty years ago, almost 90 percent of the farmers in Turkey were profiting from the production of sugar beets, so here's the advance money, to the price of sugar beets that I don't know about, but we're looking at it today, there's almost no sugar beets in Turkey. In Turkey, sugar beets were consumed by quotas placed on sugar beets, let alone an advance on citizens. Of course, when sugar beets are consumed, the easiest way is to hand over sugar factories to someone for cheap, to get someone to come after them. While millions of our citizens live off sugar beets, today the agricultural sector has already been consumed by the sale of sugar factories to certain companies. This applies to other areas of agriculture. Almost no longer can agriculture be done in Turkey. I say it's only right to consider these matters, and I offer my regards.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0188par0057	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 52 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 53: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 53 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash The signatures of the other motion are: Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Selina Doğan Gibraltar Özdemir Çetin Arık Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0189par0075	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0188par0076	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0190par0077	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0188par0078	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir on the motion.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0191par0080	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been sworn in by the motion that the tax laws be amended, on Article 53 of the bill. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with the amendment I have been promised, there is an arrangement that allows associations to be allowed to use public transport for forty-nine years to be used as education or dorms, with a amendment proposed on Article 4706 of the Law on Value Taxes. Funds that were tax-free were benefiting from this right, but now brought in, the associations will also benefit from it. If they apply within two years, they are allowed to use the premises for free. A provision is being made in favour of those who are working for the public interest of the Council of Ministers and who provide conditions that will be set by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Education, from the associations that operate in education and housing for students. The institution allows for a free right of altitude for forty-nine years above the property of the treasury or the public institutions and organisations to be used in accordance with its objectives. Because of this altitude rights facility, they will not also receive a cut of the proceeds from these organisations, which will be granted public benefit status. The government is also allowed to use it for free on areas that are contaminated under the government's rule and savings. However, there is no explanation in the provision of Article 53 of the bill regarding the criteria for the property to be taken into consideration or the right to free altitude for the foundations that carry the terms of the property belonging to the treasury or public enterprises. There was suddenly a bag of legislation brought to the Plan Budget Commission in 2017, and there were very important regulations for the Loan and Housing Institution within the law. Here, one of them was added to the purpose of the Loan and Housing Institution, such as developing national and spiritual values. The commission left no answer to the question of Mr. Lale Karbük, our Vice President-General Bursa MP, what are these values? Again, the government would pay for the nutrition and housing of the institutions established by the foundations and associations on the Ministry's tax exemption list, which is directly related to the amendment we're talking about. At that time, we insisted on asking which associations, which foundations. At that time, the Commission had a list of nearly 100 associations and foundations. And we asked you again, again, what criteria are you going to set these associations and foundations? And then they were told that these criteria would be set by the Ministry. So, with this law, as you can see, in fact, many foundations were actually supported by the state. Now, you've given the Ensar Foundation, the Spreading Society, the Union Foundation the move, and today with these changes that we've made, you've made it legal with the changes that you've added to this bill, and then you've brought back the material that you can't defend, that you can't add to the law with the bag of law. Therefore, the provisions included in the article had to be discussed in the Plan and Budget Commission in terms of the financial cargo to the treasure after a thorough discussion of its dimensions at the National Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Commission. Dear lawmakers, Justice and Development Party governments have not been consciously able to resolve the housing and housing problem in 16 years. As the government has not fulfilled its responsibility, it has unfortunately handed over its full responsibility to the community, associations and foundations. Our students have been left at the mercy of the congregations, foundations, and associations, and we have all witnessed negative cases and events that have shown the country's recent history of education and housing services to the foundations, to the congregations. So, we've all seen what parallel construction we've been insisting on, what it's costing, what it's causing in our educational system, what it's causing in our homes. In July 2017, the National Education Ministry transferred its activities in the field of education to many foundations, such as the Information Yayma Society, the Ensar Foundation, the Union Foundation. When protocols are examined, we see that the foundations can operate in any way they want in the field of education. Here, it is unacceptable to give such privileges to a foundation that resulted in imprisonment in three branches in different cities, which unfortunately occurred during child abuse. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, finally... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me, I'll talk to you for the last 30 seconds.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0192par0089	We can't extend it in the motion, we haven't extended it for anyone; tell them to report it. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0191par0091	I'd like to call again: We really don't think that areas that are very strategic, such as education, housing, housing, should be delivered to many foundations, associations, congregations. When we come to power in 2019, we promise to solve the housing problem in a year's time under qualified scientific conditions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0192par0093	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. İstanbul MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0193par0097	Mr. President, in July 2017, with the approval of public transports under the name of the Finance Ministry, the Ensar Foundation had opened the way for the religious foundations, such as TÜRGEV, for forty-nine years. We see that Article 53 of the bill is not satisfied with these foundations, but is now asked to be given the same rights to the associations. The public property that has been transferred to the foundations, the land has no limit, and now it's opening the door to associations for forty-nine years free of public transport. Guys, how many years is the average life of a fraternity? You get 14 people together and start a fraternity, and there's no more control mechanisms like that. While the allocation of buildings was being discussed, the government also offered to sell these goods to the foundations for half the price and withdrew with public reaction. There's a boiling pot, and there's always drafting laws, always trying to wire money to foundations, associations, goods. In the tens of years before he even heard the name of TÜRGAV (TÜRGAV), the foundation of the Purple Roof Women's Shelter, Human Rights Foundation, which strives to stand by its beliefs and tens of years before it has heard the name of Ensar (Ensar) is being given incredible land, goods, money. The Ensar Foundation has been betrayed by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality for the past three years. It was left to nine public buildings and land Ensar Foundations from Maltepe to Çaktrak. So that 18 acres of land were left at the Foundation's Renewal last year. This area next to the new door rally area is worth 371 million liras. There are foundations that AKP municipalities love very much. It's like there's a special share of every municipal budget for these foundations, either they're giving away a free land or a dorm building. If they can't give you these two, they rent a building, they pay all the expenses, and they give it to the foundation. I'm talking about billions of dollars' worth of funding in Istanbul alone. We almost raise our heads and find the names of these foundations wherever we see a nice public building. At Kaleichi in Çakca, Ensara was handed over to the building on the street of Tefik Erbarmez, on a plot of $3m,80,000. A building owned by İstanbul Metropolitan Municipality in the Maltepe Çınar District, Highways Street is again dedicated to the use of the Ensar Foundation for ten years in order to provide housing for middle and high school students. The current market value of the property is $5 million. But the foundations weren't enough. People will be given public goods, and I'll tell you now: the Science Yayma Society, known for its proximity to the Erdogan family, the ÖNDER Imam Hatiplers Association, the Association of Association of Association of Associations of Associations, which assists Turkey's Divine Tedrisat, which is an organic link between its founders and the Union Foundation of Erdogan. What will these institutions do? It will provide students with education and housing. The right to public education, housing, which should be provided for free, has been handed over to associations, foundations, under the control of religious communities close to the government. Haven't we just heard about the suffering of families burning down in Aladağ, protecting children from abuse in unsupervised homes of foundations such as Ensar? Now the same foundations, the associations, will give children dorms and education? Is it going to be like the Ensar Foundation's home in Karaman, where dozens of little children were abused? Is it going to be like the student dorm in Aladağ, where 11 little girls died? With our money and the wealth created by the citizens together. On the board of the Foundation, the AKP people, they're all rich, you think they're doing good, but the foundation is being spent on citizens' money again. Yeah, we don't accept that, guys. You're saying there are controversial substances? Here's another one of the first of the controversial substances. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0194par0104	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 53 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions in Article 54: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 54 of the Bill of the Law shall be changed in the following manner. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan Mehmet Bekkinoğlu "The following definition has been added to the first joke of Article 3 of the Law on Public Finance and Editing of Debt Management, dated 54-28/3/2002. "Securities account: municipal, municipal private administrations, the financial resources of public administrations, except for the Unemployment Insurance Fund, are collected from the Treasury to be registered in exchange for the budget's income and expense accounts, and the account run by the Undersecretary, Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0195par0119	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0194par0120	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0196par0121	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0194par0122	İstanbul MP Mehmet Bekkinoğlu will speak on the motion. Mr. Bachelor, come in.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0197par0125	Mr. President, I have been promised to discuss the motion that we have made on the 533th Amendment. With this motion, we ask for the removal of municipalities and municipal private administrations from the sole treasury account, just like the unemployment benefit fund. My dear friends, indeed the municipalities -- that's the law -- are the institutions that have to be autonomous in every way. It eliminates the autonomy of local governments, municipalities and municipal private administrations. Therefore, local governments should not be involved. That's why we're asking for support in our motion. My dear friends, you know that recently the report on the decline of Turkey's rating of this International Credit Rating Agency, Moody, has been published, and the markets have been affected by it. As for our government, especially Mr. Finance Minister -- he's not here -- that's nothing. So that's how Moody put it. He calls it. The government already has a general attitude about these issues. He has this attitude about all international organizations, not just the economy. When it comes to their work, when they get a statement in their favor, they get a lot of it, they can't finish it up, they can't finish it up, they can't tell the newspapers, but when something comes up, they're all doing the crusade, they're all working against us, they're all working against us. My dear friends, but that's not the job. Now I'm gonna tell you why it isn't. See, it's interesting how Moody put it when he gave this report. He says there's a decline in the resistance of the institutions. The extra corrosion and lack of basic structural reforms in the event of monetary policies, that's the delay, isn't it, my friends? Like this. On the other hand, there are other risks, high current, and there is vulnerability due to external debt. There are serious problems. That's what Moody. The Crusade, that's not what it is. That's how it works. But I, on the other hand, have asked Mr. Mehmet Simsek, who is in charge of the Treasury, what are these organizations, what are they for? Now, the answer he has given -- it's short answer -- I'm going to read it to my dear friends and to the attention of the Minister of Finance: The credit rating is an evaluation system trying to measure a debtor's willingness to pay his debt on time and with the capacity to pay it regularly. It helps to assess institutions that operate in money markets and capital markets, debtors, investors, all media and regulatory institutions. I cut short to avoid extensions. As a result, it says: "We need reports from these credit rating agencies in order to be owed. When you apply for a loan, you put in one of these reports, and we go along with it. We also have an agreement with Fitch Ratings and Moody's. He says: The terms of contracts, including the cost of signing the credit rating agencies, are also confidential under the terms of the contract. I can't explain it. So, you do these things, you make these deals, then why do you lie to the nation? Come on, don't lie to me... why don't you hide the truth from the nation. Well, be clear, tell me honestly. When you speak clearly and honestly, in every sense, your financial and political sense of credit increases, my dear friends, they trust you. Look, I'll tell you why they don't trust us, why these organizations report like this. For years, the Central Bank has set its inflation target at 5%. So, what's the inflation rate, dear friends? 11.95, two digits. Well, how can they trust you? How can they increase your credit rating? We don't care. You're interested, you're in this economic system, did you reject capitalism? No. Did you reject the program that Kemal Dervis wrote in 2001 with the IMF? No. Then say it clearly, be honest, go out, and tell the people, "What should we do?" Oh, not like this. Well, it's not like that, but the numbers are there. How much is the dollar, Cemal brother? I'm always picking on you. Go out, tell me all about it, you know all about it. What happened? It's going for $4. For what it's worth, we don't have dollars in our pocket, but it's gonna reflect on everything, and everyone's gonna get hurt. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0198par0134	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and provide that the declaration of the Law shall be changed in a future form, in accordance with Article 54 of the Law Bill 533. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Garo Paylan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0199par0146	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0198par0147	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0200par0148	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0198par0149	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the motion. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0201par0152	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. One treasure account, one useful application, friends, it's useful to manage the account of all institutions, all public institutions from one account, we support it in that sense, but it has handicaps, I'll tell you that. Dear friends, you know, this law will take effect in the date of its execution, which means that the President will sign and act on the date of its publication in the Official Gazette. Look, we budgeted the year 2018. In 2018, the institutions said that I would have $10 income, plus $3 interest revenue. They budgeted, they budgeted dozens of institutions, we discussed it together in the Plan and Budget Commission. Now, what you're saying is that this law is going to go into effect, and I'm going to collect all of those institutions' money in one treasure account, and I'm going to inherit interest revenue. Now, if we look at this point, in the history of the operation, if it were to come in, the budget of all institutions would be lost, and there are even institutions that have a very serious percentage of their revenues that are interest-related, friends and budget performances will be surprised. There's a mistake in that sense when we look at the actual date. At least this year shouldn't go into effect. It's the only treasure account. Another dimension: With our opposition, we have written that the Unemployment Insurance Fund is out of this one treasure account, but friends, so-called, look, it's really an arrangement because the entire unemployment benefit is currently under the administration's administration and using it as a pleasure. The Fund for Unemployment Insurance is a fund that must be used to help workers lose their jobs or develop their virtues, the worker's fund, the worker's fund. This fund must be a fund that comes to the help of a laborer on a tight day. But we're not expanding the use of this fund. Look, we raised $118 billion, and we let the worker use very little of it. But we have millions of unemployed people, a fund that should support them as a salary, on the contrary, because the government has now closed the budget, budget opportunities are tightened, so that's the only thing that's being used with this bag right now, with a few items in this 95-point bag, is 18 billion dollars of unemployment insurance from the Fund, friends, 18 quadrillion dollars from the old money. For what? We're putting extra money in the employee's pocket? We're making $1,700 instead of 1,600 minimum wage? No. We pay the unemployed more? Instead of a year, we pay two years instead of six? No. We use the workers' work to provide support, incentives for employers. This view is not encouraged by wrong friends, by a worker's money. If you want to encourage an employer, if you give him a budget, we'll take the day off, but you can give him one. What we need to do is use the workers' money to benefit the workers. There's a serious handicap in that sense, folks. From the unemployment fund, I suggest that we use the worker's money to the benefit of the worker, to the benefit of the worker. Another handicap, my friends, is also very important, we said that local governments have autonomy in every sense. There will be a central administration, of course, but there are local governments, they have authority, they go to citizens, they vote, they get power and they run. If he has the authority in the municipality, he has autonomy, he has the financial autonomy of an autonomous institution, so he has to decide how to manage his money, and eventually he will answer to the people in his own district, and he will answer to the citizens in the elections; he also has the Court's audit, and there are other audits. In that sense, we thought we'd keep the municipalities from this one public account. We talked about it for hours, but we couldn't convince the government. Maybe you guys can stop in that sense. Let's get the municipalities out of the only treasure account, guys. Let the local authorities be autonomous and also their financial autonomy. We expect your support in this sense. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0202par0159	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 54 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 55: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 55 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0203par0170	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0202par0171	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0204par0172	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0202par0173	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Dora.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0205par0176	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 55th Amendment to Tax Laws 533, and to amendments to certain Laws and Legislatures. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs, the amendment is made to Article 12 of the Law on the Editing of Public Finance and Debt Management 4749 under this clause. In the third joke of the article, the municipality and its private administrations, state private administrations, public economic initiatives, and joint partnerships of these administrations point to institutions in which the principle of governance is applied, which are defined as local administrations in the Constitution. Dear lawmakers, the integration of these administrations into the single treasure account is a violation of the Constitution's management principle and the administrative and financial autonomy of local governments. For the Constitution's Article 123, titled the integrity of the administration and the public administration, has been envisioned as a whole with the establishment and duties of the administration and shall be regulated by law. The institution and its duties are based on the basis of management and management from the centre, and it is stated that the public legal personality will be established only by law or by the authority vested in by the law. The principle that the administration is united by its establishment and its tasks is envisioned by the establishment and the establishment of the administration to be united between the various tasks that the administration performs and the institutions that carry out these tasks and the institutions that are within the administrative structure to work in a wholety. Dear lawmakers, again, the 127th article of the Constitution shall be regulated by law according to the principle of governance and the establishment of the institutions and duties of the financial administrations. Central administration has administrative power over local administrations, in accordance with the principle of the integrity of governance of local services, in order to ensure unity in public tasks, to protect the community's interests and to meet the required needs of the community, under the rule of administrative guardianship in the main and legal department. The authority granted by this Article of the Constitution can be regulated in addition to the rule of law. A variety of audit procedures, such as aborting, validation, postponement, permission, request for renegotiatement, corrections are being carried out by the guardianship office. However, this arrangement is not in harmony with the principle of autonomy of local governments, which are part of Article 127 of the Constitution. Dear MPs, the Constitution has divided central administration and local administration. A number of privileges and privileges are well - known for showing the embodying autonomy of these administrations. For example, the election of local government bodies and the continuation of these elections, the implementation of the decisions of local governments through their own bodies, and the implementation of these decisions, the implementation of these decisions, the establishment of their own budgets, are very difficult to include in the account of the only treasury and financial and autonomy of the cash assets in the use of these administrations. Dear lawmakers, this arrangement also violates the administrative and financial autonomy principle of the European Condition of Autonomity, which is similarly binding for Turkey. The European Condition for Autonomies, which aims to make local governments more autonomous, is more important in developing democracies like us. In accordance with the principles set out by the European Condition for Autonomous Autonomous, the establishment of local governments in our country requires an arrangement that will ensure their administrative and financial autonomy. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, see, this arrangement violates the principle of administrative and fiscal autonomy of the Constitution of the Constitution, which is binding both on Article 127, and on the basis of Turkey. In this regard, I once again declare the removal of the substance from the bill, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0206par0185	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and submit the following amendment of Article 55 of the Bill of the Law on the Amendment to certain Laws and Laws under Tax Laws 533. Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Erkan Aydın Cetin Arık Sibel Özdemir Selina Doğan The payment under Article 55-4749 of Article 12 of the Law "in accordance with the transactions, transactions and other services carried out under other Treasury transactions "in the form of other Treasury transactions and the one-treasure institutional account, in the form of procedure, transactions and other services, in the third joke, "The payment under the General Budget and sole treasure institutions account" is changed by the Turkish Central Bank, or by the following by the Turkish Central Bank, under the subsidies of Turkey, or by other means of the subsidies. "The Council of Ministers is authorized by the Minister's proposal to determine those whose financial resources from above will be evaluated under the sole treasury account. "The operation of the single treasure institutions account and the transaction of bank accounts, which will be opened in accordance with this, is to report to the Undersecretary the cash demands of the institutions and institutions under the single treasury account and the payment and collection estimates from the Undersecretary's office, the assessment of cash demands by the Undersecretary, the payment of the funds of its companies and its companies due to its operation, the implementation of loans and collection transactions due to the operation of this account, the assessment of the funds collected in the single treasury accounts, the public economic initiatives and the overall interest of those administrations are determined by the assessment of its resources, and the distribution of its resources in the interest of its solely related to other issues. The moisture revenues obtained from the evaluation of the sole source account are recorded on the general budget (B) marked by income. Undersecretary, public economic initiatives and joint partnerships of these administrations are paid to the relevant institutions, paying expenses to the Undersecretary's budget, which will be put into the budget for this purpose, sharing moisture revenues shared with its establishment and its companies and its troops. As part of the single treasury account, any obligation between the Undersecretary and the public institution and its institutions is met without interest by relevant parties. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0207par0200	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0206par0201	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0208par0202	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0206par0203	İzmir MP Kamil Okyay Sindır will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lander.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0209par0206	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 533th Amendment to Tax Laws No. 533, and on the 55th Amendment to Amendments in Articles of the Legislature of the Law and Law. Dear lawmakers, there are no doubt violations in many of the articles of this bag law, which our fellow MPs have explained over and over again. The arrangement in this article violates the 123th article of our Constitution, the 123rd article of the administration, which regulates the integrity of the government and its public legal personality, and the 127th article that regulates the local administrations. So, what do they do in these materials? We're building the only treasure account. First of all, I'd like to point out that we're very concerned about the provisions of both the substance and the general administration. Because from the point of view of the spirit of matter, I can clearly say that the arrangement of a single treasure account is the equivalent of a single man's regime and the immeasurable centralization created by the public finances. So the understanding that takes everything in one hand is today's decision to raise the public finances in one hand. So, as stated in the basis of the arrangement, the only treasure account arrangement is not really relevant to the efficient and efficient use of public resources. The public finances are facing serious problems right now. The public's domestic and external debts have reached the sizes we have never seen before. Short-term debts are no longer reversible. At the same time, the government pays a handful of companies billions of lira to compensate for their continued losses due to the unaccounted guarantees. Is it the local government that brings public finance to bankruptcy, dear friends? Absolutely not. It's the government's treasure, finance, and authority at the top that brings public finances to bankruptcy. They want to take over the financial structures of local governments, municipalities, private administrations, and use their resources as they please. See, in the municipal law and various laws -- including the Metropolitan Municipality Law No. 5216, including City Law 5393 -- the municipality is a public official with administrative and financial autonomy established by the voters to meet the local community's joint needs. With this arrangement, a new and substantial blow will be inflicted on local governments' autonomy, which is also guaranteed by the Constitution. I call it a new coup, because the political and administrative foot of the administrative autonomy of the local governments was largely overwhelmed by the recent dismissals, trustee appointments, and forced resignations in the municipalities. Now this apartment is also wanted to be completed by taking away its financial autonomy. We know very well what this understanding will do, controlling the resources of the city's special wills, holding their cash. Look, there's an arrangement in the Commission on the Law on Value Taxes. We understand from that arrangement that they will go directly to pay taxes in order to save large contractors who are in trouble, and we know that billions of dollars are needed in this regard. Now we understand that municipalities are expected to seize the funds of the state's private administrations in the banks and either give contractors the compensation of guaranteed projects or the VAT extradition. Dear lawmakers, these regulations are not in line with the Constitution, nor are they acceptable to public conscience. Local governments, which are forced to serve citizens with their already underprivileged income, will be completely in the hands of central management. People's elected mayors will be tied up, unable to breathe. The presidents will be desperate, and they will start spending most of their days in Ankara to get more money. Dear lawmakers, local governments must not be included in this account. We can't see it anywhere else in the world. The municipalities have their own councils, and the elected by the people, they make their decisions, they implement them, they spend them, they manage their income, and they answer to the people who choose themselves in return. In this arrangement, we will maintain the rights of our municipalities and municipal private administrations to the fullest. I'd also like to point out that we will continue to fight in every legal place. It would be a big mistake to include the local authorities in this account. The arrangement is an arrangement that will bring the disputes against the Constitution. This needs to be turned around. It's not fair to do that to local governments. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It'll be the rights of national will. He says it's impossible for us to accept it, thank you, and salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0210par0215	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to you the 55th article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 55th article is accepted. There is a motion in Article 56, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly As shown in Article 56 of Law Bill 533, we propose and propose that the declaration be changed as shown. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Erdal Atash Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0211par0226	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0210par0227	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0212par0228	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0210par0229	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit to your votes the motion of Coral Danış Beştaş and his friends, those who accept... Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 56th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There is a motion on Article 57: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 57 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Müslüm Doğan Erdal Atash Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0213par0244	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0210par0245	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0214par0246	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0210par0247	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Mr. Adıyaman, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0215par0250	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 57th Amendment of Law Bill 533, and I salute you all. The provision of Article 57 has been added to the special consumption tax in Article 7 of the special consumption tax, as well as to the Defence Industry Undersecretary. Now we have to go back and remember why this arrangement is being made. As you will all remember, on December 24, 2017, the State of the State of the State of Emergency of Emergency, number 696, which was published in the Official Gazette, was linked to the Defence Industry Undersecretary. Of course, this arrangement, as we will recall, was implemented just two days after the 2018 budget bill was adopted. Now, we've all had a long discussion about the 2018 budget here. As a whole for the defence industry, we've seen that the budget has increased by 40 percent compared to the previous year. According to last year's budget for directly related institutions, such as the Defence Industry Undersecretary, the National Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior and the Police, the Police, the Armed Forces of War, and the MIT, yes, there has been an increase between 40 per cent and 50 per cent. But there are accounts that the numbers don't show, and they don't show in terms of the war economy or the war budget. Like, what are these again? There are billions of dollars out of budget, such as the Defence Industry Support Fund, the Foundation for Strengthening Turkish Armed Forces. We know that in private accounts and covered funds, the vast resources are being transferred to war-oriented policies. In addition, a large portion was divided, as you will recall, by the law issued in November before the budget bill to the Defence Industry Support Fund, which is also under the Defense Industry Undersecretary. Now, why is all this happening? The goal of all of this is that a budget that cannot be controlled, that cannot be controlled, is to be managed by one hand, by the palace, and to control the palace. Now, it's clear here that, with all these resources, including covered funds and all the ones that don't appear out of control or in the budget I'm counting, a large amount of the Turkish budget remains out of control in the Parliament and in the general sense. When we think that almost half of what citizens earn is taxed, almost a large portion of the budget with public money is transferred to the Undersecretary of Defence Industries or to the Defence Industry Support Fund. And all these budgets that we're counting are actually under whose control? It's given to the President, the court. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Agbal, made a statement just before the budget talks, what did he say? We will transfer 8 billion Turkish dollars of revenues from tax increases directly to the defence industry. He said in November, with a bag of legislation. In addition, he said they expected an 18 billion-dollar increase in spending, and said the total additional source was around $26 billion before the budget bill. Therefore, dear friends, the exceptions and exemptions that are not brought to the poor parts of the public have no social benefits. The AKP's government, with dozens of tax packages concerned with citizens, is actually taxing citizens more and making their citizens moan under tax burdens. All of this, these arrangements, of course, is of no use to the interests of our people. But since this particular clause is also funding the public's war budget from their taxes, we say it's of no use and no use to the public. In this framework, we demand that this motion be removed from the bill. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0258	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 57th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 58, which I read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the terms of the declaration of the law, which is included in Article 58 of the Law Bill 533 that is being discussed in Article 533. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0217par0269	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0270	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0218par0271	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0272	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 58 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion on Article 59, which I make to read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In Article 59 of Law Bill 533, which is currently in session, "for reasons or for unexpected circumstances, there are "obstructive events and so on. For obvious reasons, such as this, we offer and propose that it be replaced in the form of a source for necessary reasons to be concretely proven. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0219par0285	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0286	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0220par0287	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0288	I'm reading the reason: The change was intended to be more concrete in terms of strong reasons and negative situations. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit Article 59 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion in Article 60, which I make read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the declaration of Psalm 533 to be changed in a future form, in order to be included in Article 60 of Law Bill 533. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0221par0301	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0302	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0222par0303	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0304	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 60th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 61, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the declaration of the Law, which is included in Article 61 of the Law Bill 533, is changed in the form of the document. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0223par0317	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0318	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0224par0319	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0320	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 61st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 62, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and supply to change the terms of the terms of the provision of the provision of Article 62 of Law Bill 533, which is in the form of Article 62. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0225par0333	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0334	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0226par0335	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0336	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 62nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 63, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 63 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0227par0349	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0350	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0228par0351	We can't agree.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0352	I'm reading the reason: The amendments made in Articles 63 and 64 are made to the establishment of the National Borial Research Institute 4865. As it is known, BOREN is not able to do RD work because of lack of resources, although it has been presented to the public differently. Thus, if we accept that a research institute without origin was born dead, the arrangement can be considered a positive step in that sense. But as it has been seen before, the shortcomings in the existing law cannot be solved by palliative improvements in such bag arrangements, the structural problems of institutions cannot be solved. Moreover, the commission to discuss this arrangement is the Industrial Energy Commission. Thus, as a positive arrangement may seem, we find it more appropriate to be referred to the relevant commission for a comprehensive legal arrangement, where BoREN's administrative, financial, technical structure has been reconsidered. I submit to your votes the motion that I have given you to read the grounds: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit Article 63 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 64, I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 64 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Müslüm Doğan Erdal Atash Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0229par0367	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0368	Your Honor, do you agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0230par0369	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0216par0370	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Adıyaman.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0231par0373	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to talk to you about something outside the clause. You know, a United Nations report has been published, and there has been a demand in Turkey for the immediate removal of the State of Emergency, and it says that the extraordinary state in Turkey has created great difficulties in terms of human rights violations and democratic liberal order. It is here that the United Nations' demand for the removal of the state of emergency in Turkey is understandable. It's not just the United Nations' demand, it's the common demand of us opposition parties. After the July 15 coup attempt in Turkey, the state's state of emergency -- which has been declared on one occasion -- is nearly two years away -- has been 18 to 19 months. So this demand of the United Nations is, in fact, a clear demand. What's not clear here is that we're having a hard time understanding the response from the ruling party against this request from the United Nations. So in response to the request of an internationally important institution, such as the United Nations, this text means nothing. Interesting, the United Nations won't take the fort. What does he say about the United Nations report again? The terrorist organizations are consistent with his propaganda. So, come on, all those who oppose, criticize, express their opinion in Turkey, the U.N.'s use, are branded as a terrorist organization, which we understand, and what does the United Nations do? It is consistent with the terrorist organization's propaganda. It is as if the United Nations is the spokesman for the terrorist organization. ▪ He has harmed the United Nations. We're sad. He says. I mean, what's the U.N. gonna do? Does he only make decisions about Turkey? Against all antidemocratic practices in the world, the United Nations will, of course, criticize it, preventing human rights violations if there is one, democracy and freedom. Again, he almost declares the United Nations officials who filed the report as spokesman for terrorist organizations. Now, another issue, which is related to this again, which the United Nations has just explained, in fact, is a state of impropriety, state of emergency, which, as you all know, the Constitutional Court has decided to violate the rights of Alpay and Mehmet Altan, and this violation decision has not been accepted by the local court. In simple terms, I don't recognize any of the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and I don't accept them. We all know where you got that courage. Of course he's getting it from political power. If the judgment falls under political control, then the local court will not take the decision of a superior court. But it didn't just end with this, so this case of Şahin alpay and Mehmet Alton, it went all the way to the European Court of Human Rights. Now, the European Court of Human Rights has made a decision, and the decision was published today on the European Court of Human Rights website. See, what the European Court of Human Rights says in its justification for Alpay and Mehmet Altan: "The right to freedom and trust has ruled that freedom of expression has been violated." Yes, it is the right. Whether a person is guilty or not, the process of trial is one thing, but the violation of his rights is another. The current custody hearing doesn't care. Now, not only did he make this decision, but 21,500 euros ruled on spiritual compensation. Now, after this decision, the Constitutional Court, as you know, has made this decision again, for the second time since the local court did not agree to the violation of rights. Of course, on the one hand -- that's the contradiction -- that's the rule of right violations, but there's a quick trial and aggravated life sentence. In Turkey, we face almost evidence and documents that reveal the state of the judiciary. We wish, we hope, that the government will consider these unlawfulities and return to the democratic system. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0232par0382	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 64th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 65th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the Court of Law shall be removed from the bill of law on the amendment of certain Laws and Laws in accordance with the tax laws of 533, which are in session, and other articles shall be addressed accordingly. İlknur İnceöz Mehmet Doğan Kubat Adnan Boynukara Zechariah Birkan Halil Eldemir Hussein Özbakır The signatures of the other motion are: Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0233par0398	We appreciate it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0232par0399	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0234par0400	We agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit05spe0232par0401	I'm reading the reasons: The reason for the motion given by Firstnur İtöz and his friends is: The proposed bill is intended to continue the current implementation by removing the interim substance from the bill, which is envisioned to be added to Article 65, Article 5015, and Article 5015. The reason for the motion was given by Bilal Danış Beştaş and his friends: Under the arrangement, temporary material is added to Oil Market Law 5015. However, the clause has been included in the text in the Commission phase. Therefore, without enough talks and above all, we find it illegal for law enforcement to be legalized without discussion at the relevant residency commission. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions of the same nature have been accepted. The matter has been removed from the text in accordance with the motions adopted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0235par0004	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0005	Here's your request according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0235par0009	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, once again, while serving in commissions as Republican People's Party, our commissioners and commissioners are doing a very serious job. In the commissions, we consider and accept the commitments made by our ministers and commissioners. But we see that sometimes promises are not fulfilled, as they are today. I'm asking you, in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, commissions form the right work and infrastructure of the People's Assembly. There, we sincerely want to believe in the credibility of your word. And here, in agreement with these laws, we want to take them out to serve our nation. If our promises are not fulfilled...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0011	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0235par0012	...we'll be acting accordingly in the commissions, and we'll be acting accordingly in the General Assembly. I present this to both the public and the High Council.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0013	Thank you. There's a motion on Article 66 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 66 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Erol Dora Erdal Atash Müslüm Doğan Mahmut Celadet Gaydalı Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0236par0025	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0026	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0237par0027	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0028	I'm reading the reason: Reason: Under the regulation of the LPG Market Law 5307, the domestic market share operating in the LPG sector is lifted from holding minimum fuel for 20 days in its stores in order to increase competition for small-scale companies operating below 2 per cent. If competition among distribution companies is aimed at balancing competition, it must be lifted completely and the obligation to keep stock must be lifted in order to compensate for the inconsistency of the arrangement itself. Moreover, the content of the substance is a subject to be discussed in the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission, and should not be included in this bill in terms of the seriousness of legislative activities. I submit to your votes the motion has been read on the grounds that those who agree... Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 66th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 67th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 67 of Law Bill 533 be removed from the draft text. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Müslüm Doğan Erol Dora Mahmut Celadet Güdalı Erdal Atash Signed by the same motion: Zechariah Haziel Bkent Kuşoğlu Bkent Yener Bektaşoğlu Mustafa Ali Balbay Yakup Akkaya Süleyman Senser Ayata Does the commission agree with the same proposals?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0238par0047	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0048	Government?
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0239par0049	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0232par0050	İstanbul MP Garo Paylan will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Paylan, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0240par0053	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, there are two things in this bag that we find very inconvenient, two articles in terms of job safety and employee safety. Look, you remember the 90s, there were employers among you, you know, the entrance of a worker to the Social Insurance Institution, you could get the worker in the same day or the same week, so you were getting the worker first, and then you were making the notification, so the non-registership was extremely high, because the employers were saying to their employee, "This week when an inspector came in, I entered this week." Friends, in those days it was 50 percent off-the-book work. Since I was withdrawn from this clause, I mean, the same day the notice was waived, the informality dropped to 33 per cent. Look, now, you know what power says? You can report to young people between the ages of 18 and 25 on the same day. It can be seen as a good arrangement, but it creates handicaps. Once again, employers say: "I'll hire 18 to 25-year-old workers, I'll take out people over 25 years of age, and I'll tell my worker that unemployment is too much: You'll work off the record, and when the inspector arrives, you'll say, "I've entered work today." He's got one hell of a handicap, guys. Look, business accidents, job killings. God forbid, do you know what the employer will do when business accidents occur to off-the-book workers, those 18-25-year-olds of ours? He will go running and report to the SGK, and he will say, "This worker entered today, he was in a business accident, but he was in today." What's the result? Both our workers will be unregistered and the entire burden of business accidents will be on the government, and it won't be any concern to the employers who employ off-the-book workers. Are we gonna let this stuff go? Our Minister of Labor says, "You'll be fine. " Friends, we can't do it by saying nothing. In the 90s, this is a 50 percent non-registered substance. Look, there's one item after two, and I'll tell you right now, number 69. Again, in the 90s, there was this practice: ▪ There was an application called five days of notification. A worker would get a job, work for 30 days, show the employer five days or ten days, friends. Look, there was a term for showing off for ten days. He was showing it for ten days, he was running it for thirty days, he was showing it for ten days, and he had no obligation to present any documents in those years, and the question of showing it for ten days, five days was very common. Then, in 2000, an arrangement was brought in, and it was said: "If you show it for ten days, you will give me a document in return. Look, when the government asks for a document, the employer gets scared, ▪ You must present it with a friend, a document. When the employer says, "Give it to me." The employer was frightened, intimidated, and these five days, ten days of showing off were greatly minimized, my friends. Now, you know what this stuff says? You don't have to give me any more papers. You show the worker ten days, you don't have to give me any reason. It's called again. What happens when that happens? It's going to go up off the record, and it's not -- it's not 18 to 25 anymore -- you show the worker ten days, and don't give me any papers. This will increase both off-the-books and improve the low-down, ten-day display issues. This will create serious handicaps in terms of the job safety of our workers, both in business accidents, and in the case of social rights, it will bring major obligations to the state, and will seriously reduce the social security revenues of the Social Insurance Institution, the SGO. The Minister of Finance, Mr. Finance, will also reduce your taxes. When it's unregistered, both the SGK and the Finance Ministry's taxes will go down. First, the Minister of Finance must object, my friends, and he must shout from there, because his taxes will be reduced. Guys, I don't think you guys are gonna let this stuff go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0241par0062	Mr. Paylan, the Finance Minister won't be able to save you, so you'll go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0240par0063	I believe you won't allow this material. Let's not co-operate with each other, my friends, on this item that will increase off the record, lead to the safety of our workers, the health of our work, the murder of our work. My respects.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0242par0066	Thank you. Izmir MP Mustafa Ali Balbay has asked for a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Balbay.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0243par0070	Mr. President, lawmakers, in this article the ruling party says that young people between 18 and 25 can die. It says, "Let the young people -- let them enjoy -- all is fair to them." Because when the young people until the age of 25 have started, let's say -- God forbid -- they will say that an accident had started today. They will say that there was a recording or a check-up coming in that day. What would have happened if they'd started out with assurances, just like the younger ones? What kind of future, what kind of dream can a young man, who is so insecure about life at his later age, imagine? On the one hand, we care about young people. You say, "You know, young people can have no job security, no life insurance, no life insurance." You say, "I wish the young people would consider it by heart." This stuff reminds me a little bit of last week's arrangement. Congressmans, there's a good regulation on the fire measures in the dorms. It's an auto-extinguishment system. One by one, it says: "This regulation is applied in the dorms where more than 200 students are in order, in order, in the most recent article. " So, lawmakers, in this law, and in the regulations for measures like Aladağ-like fires in the dorms that we've just asked not to have, for example, you're bringing the law of a brake system, it has to be in this setting, it has to be in this standard, it has to be in this standard. You say in your last article, "It's possible without the Fren system." In the business, it's similar to this, you collect it and multiply it by zero. This bag is the 84th item I particularly want to emphasize in the law. There are restrictions on Internet publishing here. I'm going to read you a text -- you're limiting this Internet, you're going to control it, you're going to start checking RTÜK -- and I'm going to read an assessment, Mr. Lawmakers, and I wish the ruling party would listen very carefully. Institutions such as the President of Information Technologies and Communication Association and RTÜK did not understand this arrangement, and neither did the sector. This arrangement seems to be in a bit of a hurry, and there's no common sense. It is said that different online publications will be audited, but neither do the authors of this article, and the authors of this article do not understand what this is. I applaud Taha Yücel. They don't really understand. He says, "There's no common sense." He says, "There's no inspection with this." he says. This is the MP you sent to RTÜK. This is the one you sent. No, he's been in office for three semesters, he's got technical knowledge, and he's done this assessment. I'm saying turn around while the road's close. This is your attempt to control Internet publishing... actually, RTÜK knows very well that this can't happen, but the real goal here is to control online broadcasts and try to silence the opposition completely. In the same way as this alliance law, let's say that one person from here -- let's say Ali Sugar -- published, RTÜK will ask him for a license. Let's say that some of you, lawmakers from the ruling party, have made a broadcast, will ask for a license. Is that possible? Not normally, but RTÜK won't ask anyone he wants. It's a very dangerous substance, lawmakers. It's hard enough for the law to keep up with the development in the field of communication right now, but the law you're bringing in right now has no framework, and it's a very dangerous substance that can be applied as requested, so I say give it up, don't stand in the face of freedoms. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0244par0077	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Ozkoch.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0245par0079	Mr. President, just for the record. Once again, Mr. Secretary, we need to tell the world that our 18- to 25-year-olds live in a country with dignity all over the world. Think about it again, Mr. Secretary. We want to keep our 18- to 25-year-olds within the social security framework, not on the employer's conscience, but on a code of law. We're asking you, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0246par0082	I'm sure the Minister will be here.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0247par0083	Have the Minister of Labor come and explain.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0245par0084	Thank you very much, thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0248par0085	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0249par0086	Take a break.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0250par0087	Our Minister of Labor is coming, so let's continue, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0249par0088	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0251par0089	He'll vote, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0249par0090	He'll vote, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0252par0091	You know, I'll vote on the Commission, then we'll talk all the time.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0249par0092	Not at all, Mr. President. Let the Minister come first...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0252par0093	We don't need a break, Mr. Secretary is coming.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0253par0094	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0249par0095	No, Mr. President, perhaps it will show will. Mr. President, if our Minister is going to make a statement, let's take a break. It doesn't matter after the vote.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0254par0097	Mr. President, either a group of vice presidents isn't being taken seriously.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit06spe0255par0098	Okay. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0255par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Bill 533. The commission and the government are in place.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0256par0004	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0255par0005	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0256par0006	I'd like a short word for 60, sir.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0255par0007	I'll make you a promise according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0256par0009	Thank you, Mr. President. We're discussing the relevant clause in the existence of our Minister of Labor, and in Article 67, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, you're bringing in a report on the same day as our 18-25-year-olds. For one thing, this age limitation is unconstitutional; you try to reduce young unemployment between 18 and 25 years of age, but such a limitation could compromise the safety of our workers over 25 years of age. Other than that, between the age of 18 and 25 on the same day, the employee notification will increase off-the-books. In the 90s, there were practices, and when an inspector arrived, he entered into work today. Likewise, an employer who is entitled to notification on the same day will report on the day of the job accident, which will increase unsecured work and increase the burden of business accidents on the state, Mr. Secretary. In the same way...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0257par0013	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0258par0015	In fact, these discussions were held during the commission's work. First of all, we, the AK PARTI authorities, especially in every aspect of our lives, have put in place very comprehensive policies, starting with election laws; we believe in young people's energy, their synergy. I would like to express that I believe in the awareness of young people, especially in their insurance work, that they will not allow themselves to be abused in this sense. From a holistic point of view, we form our policies. In this context, we have meetings of young people with social partners, common minds, consultations, dialogue, and as a result of these meetings, we have a Youth Employment Action Plan. In particular, it's an area where we've recently done the most jobs increase in young people's employment, and in our statistics published in December, we've done the highest job increase of about four points, and we've given them a four-point reduction in unemployment rates. Not in employment, not in education, but in our 18-25-year-old group. The most focused we've been on at this time, not just this arrangement in our package, but one of me. We've also had some regulations to support the employment of our young people in this age group, in our workplaces, which we call three workers, which are skilled in manufacturing. In this context, we don't think that the arrangement we're making is a risk in the sense that it's off the record. The '90s are an example. As a Social Security agency, we've developed a lot of our service range right now. In the past, especially through e-government, there have been no arguments about insurance in the electronic environment, and today our employers have many mechanisms to report at the same time. And if they don't, our control mechanisms are there. In that regard, our criminal convictions are clear. Our whole youth policies are in line with our policies on youth employment. Our young people want to have more opportunities in connection with their secure flexible working models. It's an arrangement that has come out of the suggestions that we've had in meetings with our young people, especially after we've been in office, and I'd like to express that. Students or young people with some limitations have expressed that they want to be able to work flexiblely, which we apply in our age group. Turkey, Turkey in the 90s... our employers now know that they don't have to run off-books to benefit from a lot of incentives, so we have a lot of regulations to encourage registration in this sense, in terms of employers, and our young people are very conscious. And right now, in the past period, as a Social Security institution, our employers, who have the ability to make insurance in electronics, even with the SMS, have access to easy employer practices. There's no excuse in that context. On the same day, if there's no insurance involved, when we determine that, our criminal sanctions will come in anyway.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0018	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0258par0019	We have big goals for our young people, especially in improving their employment and reducing their unemployment. And as the most important foot, we have reduced our young group, who are in neither training nor training -- we have a serious decline trend right now -- to 20% of the 40 percent, and hopefully we have a goal to reduce it further.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0020	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0258par0021	In this context, we're not looking at a risk right now, it's relevant.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0022	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0260par0023	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0024	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0260par0025	For the record, I'll tell you. Our Minister hasn't answered my questions. When an insurance inspector goes to a workplace and finds 10 unregistered workers, the employer finds out that I hired these 10 people today. What type of authority can he apply when he says: He can't apply it to anyone. I hired him today. He can't record and apply as if he hired today. That'll increase the off-the-books.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0026	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0260par0027	Likewise, in business accidents, let's say there was a work accident today, an unregistered employee; when the employer made the notification until the end of the day, the burden is on the state and especially on the workers, all of us.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0028	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0260par0029	In this sense, it's a substance that burdens the government with the risk of off-the-books and business accidents, and it's going to have major handicaps, and I think it's going to increase off-the-books.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0259par0030	It's on the record. Mr. Maziel, I give you my word for a minute according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0261par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. There was no intense criticism of young employment here. The question is: A 25-year-old person is supposedly employed on the same day until he turns 25, when he is detected as a result of an inspection at any workplace. And what happens when 25 and a half-year-olds are identified? You can't make a difference between a 25-year-old and a 25-and-a-half-year-old in terms of an insurance system. This is contrary to the principle of equality, contrary to the principle of consistency, in short, not incompatible with the logic of the law. Why 25 years old? Whether it's 28 years old, 30 years old, or all the workers in the same status, it's based on this trust element. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So if there's a law being made here, there's got to be a logic to it, there's got to be a system here that will be adopted by lawmakers, Mr. President. That's what we talked about during the debate of this whole bill, and we tried to make it happen. How are we going to defend that in the laws of the work that we've passed against the laws of other countries that we'll be able to harmonise together tomorrow? We have no defense.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0262par0037	Thank you, Mr. Cleanel, it's on the record.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0263par0038	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit07spe0262par0039	I'll call the number of decisions I need. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit08spe0262par0001	I now open the Eighth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There was not enough decision-making in voting on the same specific motions given on Article 67. Now, I'm going to re-offer the motions to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... there is not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit09spe0262par0001	I now open the Ninth Session of the 74th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Mr. Master, I give you my word according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit09spe0264par0003	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to share with you a review of the 67th article of the bill we are discussing. Of course, the unemployment rate for 18-25-year-olds is very high. The government's efforts to increase employment for 18-25-year-olds are admirable. But what is brought with this clause is our concern, Mr. President, that it will increase off-the-books. Because there will be no employer in an effort to run it off the record, stating that it began today during an inspection on the same day. Now we have to make it very clear that this is not going to contribute to the obvious employment, it's going to have an exclusion effect, it's going to have an outside effect. How's that? Over 25 plus, and then 18 to 25 years of age will look for a cheaper way to run them off the record. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I don't understand what kind of deterrent could it have been to report it the day before? It wouldn't be the right approach to saying it had a deterrent effect. So let's encourage off-the-books running from here... to think of it as a flexible working model, and if there is such an idea, that would be extremely wrong. They have flexible working methods, but they must not be tried as an unregistered exercise method. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-03-20sit09spe0265par0008	Thank you. The second vote of motions on the same property on Article 67 was not enough. Now I'm going to re-vote the motions and vote with the electronic device. I'll give you two minutes to vote, and I'll initiate the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. Since the third vote did not provide enough decision-making, the decision was made to discuss legislation and proposals and other tasks from the commissions in order of Wednesday (March 21st 2018). I wish you good evening, closing the assembly at 00.
