tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Mardin MP Sheikhmus Dinçel, who asked to be mentioned on the Day of Honor on November 21, Mardin. Here you go, Mr. Dincal.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0002par0010	Mr. President, I have made a promise today to celebrate the 99th anniversary of Mardin's Day of Honor. I salute our Veteran Assembly. In the thousands of years of Mardinn history, dozens of different civilizations have found their place. It is an open-air museum located in Subari, Sumer, Akkad, Babylon, Mitanis, Assyria, Rome, Byzantine, Arab, Seljuklu, Artuklu, Ottoman times, and is a museum of open air that has many structures. It has been a cultural transit point throughout history, and has also been a home to different ethnicities such as Muslims, Christians, Jews, Yezidi, Shemsi, Kameri, Mecusi, Turk, Kurdish, Arab, Armenian, Suryani, Jacobi, Keldani, Nasturi. At the end of World War I, when the Mondros Truce Agreement was given to the British in Southeast Anatolia, the British quickly came to the gates of Mardin after Mosul. Admiral Bristol came to Mardin on May 12, 1919, along with his commanders, along with the British Noel, which he pointed out was behind all the events in the region. He's gathered here with the elders of the city, hoping for a non-war surrender. The gathering of the people and many peoples, initially Süryani Ancient Patriarch III. The answer of Lord Shakir was that we were ready to fight against occupation and occupation as a whole. On May 14, 1919, Noel returned and informed his superiors that the region was a mess for them and that the people of different languages and religions could not hold on to their national stand in solidarity. On 16 September 1919, an agreement was made in London. The French have expanded their invasion zones to the east immediately. Meanwhile, French Norman was assigned to occupy Mardin with several other officers. When the people of Mardin heard the news, they immediately protested. On October 30, 1919, a rally was held with thousands of people. On behalf of the Council headquarters, the protest was issued by Hüseyin's signature: "It is well known that a unjust and unjust peace decision will bring happiness to the civilization. When Norman came to Mardin with his forces, the elders of Mardin agreed on what kind of stand they would take when they came to the city. And they gathered themselves together in the house of the chief of the congregation, Job Öönn. As a first measure, many tents have been set up in the hills between the station and the city, creating the impression that there is a national organization in it. The fine wood was tied to the bayonet-sized meat knives, and made to look like a rifle. Many stovepipes were placed next to the iftar cannon at the fort. Those who settled behind the rocks turned their heads and only their bayonets into a crowded military force with fake rifles. As soon as Norman entered the station on 21st November, he faced opposition from the locals, with their mavises, axes, daggers. Although he feared the situation, he initially failed to overcome his military pride and headed for the city council. A representative, who was present at the meeting as agreed earlier, responds with a high, proud and determined expression: (Tercuman, in behalf of all Mardins and Mardinns, report to norman that this is not a part of Syria, but a thousand years old Ottoman city. He will do so again, just as he has worked so far on his way to maintain and defend his government, and his invasions have been so heroic so far. Our government is able to provide us with all kinds of needs. Even if we're alone, we won't hand over the city to him. Let him feel sorry for his life and go as he came out of the love of Diyarbakir. At that time, the sound of cannons from the fort...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0003par0015	Complete it, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0002par0016	At the time, some present at the meeting drew and tore up the French flag in the hand of an officer under the command of Colonel Norman. He fled the city as quickly as he could with those around him who were so frightened by it. Norman, who understood how dangerous the situation was from what he saw and heard and thought of nothing but getting out of Mardin alive, immediately left Mardin. Norman was the cornerstone of his struggle with his escape that day. The original foundations of the Salvation War were laid out with these events, where the hope of independence flourished. The spirit of the struggle born in Mardin on November 21st showed the British, the French, and many others that Anatolia was not offered to them on a platter of gold. Mardin demonstrates the dignity he showed that day, as it has always been today. I hereby congratulate all Mardin people on the Day of Honor on November 21st, and salute the entire General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0003par0019	The second non-responsive statement is the European Parliament's draft Turkey report, which calls for an offer to suspend Turkey-European Union accession talks. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0004par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-book commitment to the European Parliament draft Turkey report on the suspension of Turkey-European Union accession talks. I salute your High Council. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, while we, as the opposition party have implemented significant reforms in the Turkey-European Union membership talks, which had been brought to an important stage before the Justice and Development Party took office, are now officially on the agenda to end negotiations. In particular, no significant results have been achieved on the road to full membership, no progress in relations with the European Union, which the rulings of the Justice and Development Party, which conducted the process alone after 2007, have destroyed inconsistencies, inconsistencies, periodical and dayly political interests. Instead of structural reforms, policy and legal regulations for the establishment of the authoritarian regime have been prioritized, and the European Union's full membership perspective has sadly remained. At the same time, the draft of the Turkish-European Union progress report was announced by the European Parliament Reporter on 14 November 2018 and called for the end of talks with Turkey. The draft report also highlighted the basis for Turkey's call for the end of accession talks, as well as the basis of Turkey's call for the end of its accession talks, as well as the reason for its failure to meet the Copenhagen political criteria, including the rule of law, justice, human rights, democracy, freedom of speech and the separation of forces. I think we should consider the assessment of the draft report on this issue. Dear lawmakers, because at this stage, Turkey has moved away from being a state of law. The President of the Justice and Development Party and the President of the European Union and their rulings are not a priority in relations with the European Union, they are certainly democracy, the state of law, the rule of law, the expansion of press freedom, fundamental rights and freedoms, but their own personal political interests. Dear MPs, Mr. Erdogan said in his speech at the opening session of our Parliament on October 1st that Turkey does not need the European Union. However, this could be interpreted as an obstacle to the European Union's legal framework, particularly the Copenhagen political criteria, as Mr. Erdogan's presidential system and the separation of forces and democratically functioning independent institutional structure have no need for the European Union for its permanence. And that is why Turkey is taking steps away from the full accession process of the European Union; the refugee issue has been reduced to short-term bilateral relations, such as visas, customs union. Dear lawmakers, with power collected in one person, we live as all parts of society at the cost of Turkey being away from universal European values and a country that reassures the international community. Here is Turkey's 101st place between 113 countries, two more places down from the previous year, according to 2017 data on the World Justice Project's Supremeity Index. The scope of steps taken under the State of Emergency and post-op practices has been expanded in a way that contradicts the principle of proportionality for critical sounds in the media and at the academy. He has been resorted to democratic and illegal means to digest, destroy whoever or whatever organization is against him as a government. Journalists, human rights advocates, writers or social media users have had serious concerns about criminal cases, the cancellation of press cards and the closure of several media organs or the appointment of government representatives to their administration. Due to the narrowing of the freedom environment, young and qualified human capital is fleeing the country, while those who leave do not return. Not only young minds, but manufacturers and investors are leaving our country with their capital. With 6,000 migrations, Turkey is ranked third after China and India. Mr. President, I would like to remind you once again that Turkey's axis, its perspective, is full membership and full membership in the European Union, and that its costs after this option will be multidimensional, and I would like to urge political power to take the necessary steps on its path to full membership as soon as possible. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0005par0033	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to İstanbul MP Iştin Nuhoğlu, who asked for a comment on the urban transformation problem in Üsküdar Kirazlıtepe. Here you are, Mr. Noahoglu.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0006par0038	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs are in the district of Üskudar, Istanbul, where there is a magnificent sea view, a view of the Bosphorus, Kirazlıtepe neighborhood. On Saturday (November 17th), we visited the neighborhood together with the head of our Üsküdar district, the head of Istanbul Province, and the executive friends in the headquarters. This place has been declared an urban conversion site. Since 2015, residents have lived a very restless, even anxious life. What happened over the past period, I simply want to take a look at them, and in the end, I want to express the very innocent, pure wishes of the residents. Dear friends, this area was declared an urban transformation area in September 2015, and it was announced in October 2016 as a special project area as 1.50, and it was said that the owners would be given 60 per cent of the share, as well as a fixed payment of between $35,000 and 60,000 lira for the rubble. In February 2017, TOKI stepped in, opened an office in the region, and began taking unilateral action from the rightful owners. So, after this began to happen, the rightful owners stood up and said, "What is happening?" The destruction began in August 2017, the destruction of some of the rightful owners they signed and threats began to happen to those who had no other signatures. The mayor of Skopjedar has made it very clear at his meeting at the neighborhood station that if you sign it, we will resolve it through peace, or they will declare it a risk zone, you will be the master of what will happen. Of course, the rightful owners did not buy the threat, and in February 2018, the declaration of risky space took place. In March 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism handed over its authority on risky areas to the municipality of Skopjedar; after that, the threats in the municipality increased further, and after that, it was said that those 50 per cent previously announced would be reduced, and the rights were forced to sign, but they were still unable to sign. In this neighborhood -- valued friends -- the issue is very important and very long, but the time is very short -- normally the property of the 182-acres has 749. 39 of them have a titled 788; 352 have signed -- 72 acres -- the rest of them have not signed and not signed. They don't really want much, there's nothing wrong with it. I'm simply expressing the demands. First of all, the rubble of the buildings that were destroyed there is asked to be cleaned up, because there is a serious danger there now. The rightful owners don't want to sign one-sided. Normal, they're willing to sign the official contract if these pressures and threats are abandoned, and they want it done in the notary. The rightful owners want to see what they have on the project. In addition, they desire that a technical member of the project's implementation process be represented in this audit process, and the rightful owners would like to be updated to the extent of the rights of property and debris costs. Dear friends, I've got big vote support behind me, the mayor of Üsküdar. I was voted 45%, 46%. You have to trust me and give me your autograph.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0007par0042	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0006par0043	What does that mean? If I get your vote in the election, it'll go on. There's no mortgage on anyone's game. This is not the right course of action. The mayor of Üsküdar must give up or the AKP should warn the mayor of Üsküdar; the voters there should stop threatening. Dear friends, Kirazlıtepe, our Üskudar is only one district of Istanbul, but it is our duty to protect the rights of our citizens living in this neighborhood. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0008par0047	Thank you, Congressman. Congressmans, I will now promise the MPs who entered the system their position for a minute. After these words, Mr. Group, I will meet the demands of our vice presidents. Mr. Gökcal...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0009par0052	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Mersins are concerned, the Mersins are restless. The Akkuyu Nuclear Plant Project, which has been moving with uncertainty from time to time since its project came to light, has fallen off the agenda, but is haunted by the Mersins because nuclear is an antiquated way of producing energy. Advanced countries are rapidly moving away from nuclear energy. The AKP is paying to become the nuclear dump of developed countries. The agricultural production of Mersin, the green forests, the blue sea, is being sacrificed to an outdated facility. Moreover, the reactor used at the nuclear plant failed its first attempt. We can't use an unknown reactor as God is a slave. The AKP may not like the country, but we do. Our Turkey is not the experimental base of Russia, Japan. You have laid three foundations in Akkuyu, and listen to the Mersins once.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0008par0053	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0010par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Turkey has carried out a large trade operation for many years with its neighbour, Syria. The international trade has always had a relationship with Syria to borrow a loan. Do both our private sectors and the public receive in Syria? What's the total amount of these purchases? Is there a communication network set up for the collection of the recipients? What channels is this communication made from? If there's no communication, what about these purchases? Will there be commercial communication with the Syrian government? The public expects an explanation on this issue, and we demand it from the power. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0011par0058	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0012par0060	November 20th, World Children's Rights Day was celebrated with different events in our country and all over the world. In particular, the United Nations declared November 20th as World Children's Rights Day in order to protect and improve living conditions for children struggling to survive in the geography of war and poverty. Sadly, children are most affected by the hunger and poverty caused by world wars, persecution. Areas such as Gaza, Arakan and Syria remain a scene of child massacres. According to U.N. Children's Help Fund (UNICEF), 22,000 children under the age of 5 die every day in the world for preventable reasons. And yet, unfortunately, the United Nations remains silent about all these massacres and the deaths of children. Children, our future is our future. He says don't let the children die, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0011par0062	Mr. Özer...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0013par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, a very intense price pressure is being put on the farmer. Everybody talks about rising food prices, but no one talks about input costs. Fertilizer is increasing, diesel is increasing, medicine is increasing; seeds, bait, transport, labor costs are always increasing, but product prices are always expected to remain the same. A year ago, the cost of a dollar would cost $1.50 today, but it's always wanted to keep the price the same. A new state law is on the agenda due to food inflation. It is said that state brokership is to be removed completely. That's wrong because the broker is the farmer's representative. If you remove this without replacing it, you will destroy the small manufacturer. Please do not move until you know the job and listen to the manufacturer. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0014par0068	Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0015par0070	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, the disease known as dystrophy, or DMD, is a genetic muscle disease that is rarely seen in girls' children, in the one and only one of the 3500 newborn children. It's the most common form of terminal child disease among rare diseases. Although epidemiological studies are inadequate in our country, it is estimated that there are 15,000 DMD patients in Turkey. While medical literature refers to life expectancy as the mid-20s, many of our young DMD boys, such as 13-16, die of respiratory and heart failure, due to lack of care standards in our country. In order to improve the quality of life and care of members of the DMD (DMD) with the basic idea, the work must be done immediately. An effort must be made to bring the world's best maintenance standards and the best example of practice to Turkey. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0016par0074	Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0017par0076	Mr. President, the development of our country's agriculture and agricultural trade, the resolving of its problems; increasing costs, developments in the exchange rate, extended deadlines and financial access must be overcome. The fight against inflation is mentioned, but in order to reduce inflation permanently, economic and financial policies must be supported without delay. I'd like to tell you about the demands of our tomato manufacturers, as it is known, the tomato manufacturers are having a hard time exporting to Russia. During this period, producers in Antalya, for example, pray that the northern Iraq market, where it markets 70 per cent of its production, will not end. Without northern Iraq, the price of tomatoes would be around 1 lira. The manufacturers want a permanent solution to the problems they face each year. It is said that rising prices are balanced by the Iraq market, but the manufacturers insist on drawing attention to Russia. To Russia, the barriers to exporting tomatoes are essential. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0018par0079	Mr. Tutdere...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0019par0081	Thank you, Mr. President. Our Adıyaman is a city of tobacco workers in Turkey and the world, which is a value to me alone. During the past legislature, legal regulations have been made to sell these tobaccos, which are uniquely internally, through co-ops, and it has been committed by the Finance Ministry to give a discount on the public for wrapping tobacco. There's been no study of it so far. On behalf of the Adıyaman tobacco manufacturers, I'd like to ask the ministry: When are you going to do the S.T.V. discount on the roll tobacco? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0020par0085	Mr. Zeybek instead of Mr. Arik...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0021par0087	Mr. President, a small fire that started in the building next door to the Republican People's Party's Bayburt County Chairman has quickly grown up and the Bayburt Republican People's Party Mayor's Building has been severely damaged by the late arrival of the fire department. I wish you well from here. All main streets are in the ground, and I demand that asphalt be done immediately, due to the lack of road work done by Metropolitan Municipality in the District of Hekimhan, Malatya Province. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0022par0090	Mr. Sword.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0023par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we have a meeting of our own, the Nebi Week. With the arrival of our Prophet, who was sent as a mercy to the world, a great civilisation was established, but today, the Islamic world is dealing with a civilization crisis and its problems. Islam's civilization had successfully overcome such crises after the Mongol invasion, the Crusades, the Latin invasion, and the fall of Endulus. The Islamic civilisation, which was in the Western invasion of the Ottomans during the First World War, has not yet survived this final crisis. The most permanent of the problems caused by the crisis of civilization, mental addiction, political addiction, dissolution, division, human rights violations, persecution, injustice in the income distribution, poverty, Western impersonation, social amnesia -- and the breaking of the social memory chain, ignorance. Thou art the hand that hath exalted the world above us.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0022par0094	Mr. Flitz...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0024par0096	Thank you, Mr. President. We, as members of a civilization that ordered learning from the cradle to the grave, have cared for our teachers throughout history and continue to care. The teacher is only the teacher, the one who teaches, the one who does not convey knowledge, the one who educates, the one who patiently uncovers ore in his student, and the one who works. In this way, teachers are the basic building blocks of our educational system and architects of our future, their efforts and sacrifices cannot be forgotten. We're in a time of dizzying developments. For this reason, it is important for us to capture the age when teachers renew themselves, monitor progress closely, and direct their students accordingly. On the day of Teachers' Day of 24 November, when the public's schools opened and the title of Gazi Mustafa Kemal. As holy as it is, I offer my most heartfelt thanks to all our teachers, the people of the heart, who have established a heavy profession, the free, the free, the conscience, the free, the wise, the free generation.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0025par0100	Mr. Enginyurt instead of Halil Ozturk...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0026par0102	Mr. President, as cleaning staff for the Buzkale National Education Directorate, İSKUR has taken a 500-person, unfair and unfair test as part of the community benefit programme. Although we have repeatedly warned the cranberry office not to receive its dues, it is unfortunate that at this point, the director's office has committed a major scandal in Çurkkale, ignoring our warnings. The notarized notary, notarized notary to prevent the rights, was held in the centre of Kırıkkale, while all other counties were hired without criteria, without rules, without notarized interviews, with so-called interviews. According to such a job description, which requires no highly unfair, special training or skills, interviewing and evaluation are not clear. In the districts of Kırıkkale, who gave priority to those who were given this instruction, without rules, notary, without criteria, with so-called interviews? The ministry still hasn't responded to our written motion on this matter. We will uncover the unknowns of the recruitment process, which is even contrary to our constitution, and we will not allow anyone to be wronged in Kırkkale.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0025par0103	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0027par0105	I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Animalism: With the economic crisis in our country, our farmers are in a very difficult situation, they can't sell their products, they can't pay their debt. Therefore, our farmers and livestock citizens are urgently entered and must be given market support. One, we want our farmer to be immediately given cheap diesel without taxes on diesel; two, our farmer's good agricultural edemas that have been waiting for years; three, we want our farmers to be paid immediately for oily bear seeds and corn support; four, we want the taxes on fertilizer, food, medicines and seeds that our farmers use to reset; five, the imports and banning of any agricultural products that we produce; six, Chinese, the imports of moon seeds; seven, our farmers' loans to state and agriculture co-opts to the government, and we want them to delay a year without interest. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0025par0107	Mr. Yudunuven...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0028par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Sadly, children are most affected by the hunger and poverty caused by world wars, persecution. Areas such as Gaza, Arakan, Syria, Myanmar continue to be a scene of child massacres. In particular, the United Nations declared November 20th as World Children's Rights Day to protect and improve living conditions for children struggling to survive in the geography of war and poverty. According to the United Nations Children's Help Fund, 22,000 children under the age of 5 die every day in the world for preventable reasons. And yet, unfortunately, the United Nations remains silent about this kind of massacre and the deaths of children. As a lawyer, he celebrates World Rights Day; the children say our future is our future; the children say not to die; I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0029par0112	Mr. Ahmet Kaya...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0030par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. While our country and our nation await a solution to important and priority problems, we see that the issues that have been carried by the ruling party to the agenda of parliament are far from our citizens' demands and expectations. The problem of pensioners is the top priority of the issues that our citizens are looking for a solution to. The fact that millions of our citizens have completed their insurance and the number of bonus days, and that they haven't been retired has become a bleeding wound to our country. The problem of those who live to the age of retirement, which is promised a solution to their power and opposition during each election period, must be resolved immediately. The pension rights they deserve, like mother's white milk, must be given to our citizens. Those who do not give the right carry the burden of a earned right on their shoulders. As the Republican People's Party, we will continue to keep this issue on the agenda until it is resolved. We won't let our nation forget this righteous demand, and we won't let it be forgotten. That's how we want you to know it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0031par0118	Mr. Bak Bakak is replacing Mr. Euchar...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0032par0120	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, architects of the art of human education as a professor, have made every letter they've ever written on the board worth the future of Turkey with every note they've ever written. The key to our country's age of knowledge is in the hands of our precious teachers. As a member of a civilization where the pen is superior to the sword, it will be our duty to improve the qualities of this dedicated profession. On behalf of Teacher's Day, November 24th, I honor, and thank you all our fallen teachers who put their lives on the line for the safety of this country. For many years, I have brought up his students with great sensitivity and sacrifice, and today I wish our retired teachers a healthy, prosperous life. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0033par0125	Mr. Sevkin...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0034par0127	While serving as a senior officer in the TSK, the law states that citizens of the same institution who have been working as civil servants have lost their rights until the 45-year-old has been relieved of their duties, but has been granted a pension. In addition to Article 6663, which took effect in 2016, civil servants have not used 3,000 additional indicators given to experts. Although the number of civil servants serving under the same conditions after the law has been arranged as an expert officer, the identity and registration number of those serving before the law has not been taken into account. The problem of our citizens, who have suffered a serious decline in their salary, must be resolved. Moreover, as in Adana, cleaning workers who work in city hospitals have not taken advantage of staff opportunities. Special security personnel serving under difficult circumstances in Turkey must be improved in their rights, with a serious adjustment in their salaries, considering the risky work done by private security personnel who are trying to earn a minimum wage. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0035par0130	Mr. Ismail Kaya...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0036par0132	Thank you, Mr. President. The 24th November Teacher's Day is just a short time away. I celebrate and kiss the meaningful day of our precious teachers, especially my teachers who taught me. Happy Teacher's Day, November 24th, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0037par0135	Mr. Hawk, in place of Mr. Butcher.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0038par0137	Mr. President, thank you. Today, our producers at Edremit, Burhaniye, Ayvalik, Gömec, Havran and Erdek, whose harvests cost the most by olive and olive oil producers, are also in economic distress this year. In August, our farmers still haven't received the annual production and good agricultural implementation incentives that they should have received before the harvest. The price of olive oil was the same as last year's prices during this harvest, when production costs increased by almost 100 per cent, making the producer who couldn't get a bonus even more economically difficult. Our olives and olive oil producers expect their support premiums to be paid at once, and the single olives to be paid per kilogram of support, as in olive oil. My respects, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0039par0140	Mr. Özyrek...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0040par0142	Mr. President, it is time for the people of Sivas and Sivas, whose foundations have been laid down, who do not accept mandaism, who do not submit to external forces, who have taken over the National Fighting Committee financially and spiritually, on September 4, 2019, because the Sivas Congress is the 100th year. In Sivas, the National Fighting Committee remained for a hundred and eight days. During this time, the people of Sivas have taken the national combat committee in the best possible way. We want the celebrations on September 4th 2019 to take place for a week, and we demand a time period in which we can introduce and introduce the historical and rich foods and culture of Sivas. We would like our Ministry of Culture and Tourism to bring this up. At first, I remember Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk and his comrades with mercy and gratitude. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0041par0146	Mr. Erdogan... no. Mr. Çolakoglu...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0042par0149	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Our pain and sadness are great. Two of our five workers who were trapped because of the explosion in a private mine in Kilimli district in Zonguldak have been rescued, and three others have been killed. From the moment of the crash, all of our government's institutions have arrived immediately at the scene and have mobilized for rescue efforts. I wish God's mercy to our fellow miners who are martyrs, and my condolences to their relatives. Our miners who survived the accident are still being treated at the hospital. I wish for immediate healing to our wounded mining brothers.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0043par0152	Mr. Anres...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0044par0154	Mr. President, thank you. Turkish transport trucks from Russia to Turkey have been stranded for six or seven days due to unfavourable conditions in the Georgia Kazbegi region. According to reports from the families of those drivers, in my district, in Tripoli, I have been told that our fellow drivers are at the end of their food and water and are in a very difficult situation. Given the lack of Georgia's profit-cleaning efforts, as a state, I'd like to propose this issue to our Parliament about providing necessary assistance to our truck drivers trapped here. And thank you so much for your promise.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0045par0157	I'll meet the pledges of the group's vice presidents. Mr. Yavuz Yekalioğlu...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0046par0160	Mr. President, for a few hours today, I've hosted a crowd of paid teachers. I'd like to ask for a sensitivity in this matter, in a sense of teacher's day. I'm going to try to draw attention to this matter in the bag of laws regarding the environment we're meeting today. I'm just saying, it's an entrance. I forwarded it to the ruling group, but I don't know if they were able to see each other. It's about 5,500-6. Among them are a group of victims, with average service periods of 19 to 20 years. In a mission that has not been defined in 13 or 14 years, in incredibly bad circumstances, the Joker has to hold the hands of these brothers and sisters who work as teachers. There's nothing that's going to be a burden on us, a burden on our budget. Even if we don't have these teachers who are willing to go to places where our staff staffs would like to go with a minimum average of a thousand liras, even if they're not given a position to go to places where they're expected to go by the terms of the Joker teacher, where they're being improved, where they're being served with experience for so many years. At the beginning of the process, some of them have reached our age in age. Among them, we have a considerable amount of friends who persevere despite poor working conditions and who have to sacrifice because there are no other living conditions. If they were in their 20s and 25s, they'd be able to meet these conditions because they're fresh, but you can appreciate... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I beg you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0047par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0046par0166	...it's hard for our 45-year-old employees to score 55-60 points in KPS. In this case Ismet Yilmaz Bey is touched by our friends, who call his name no. Our new Minister probably hasn't gotten involved yet, but if this injury isn't resolved, the insurance premiums don't fill the workday for 14 years, which is five hundred and six hundred days, people. So there's been a serious loss. In this sense, to get the deficit out of here... okay, even if they're not fully educated, it's a win for our national education community... to be ridiculed, to have experience, to be carried out on the field, to be considered co-op, to be held by the state, to be held by the state. I believe that this staff, which the government has been serving so long, should be taken away from them in the face of the reward for their service. I will draw your attention again in the bag of legislation concerning the details of this matter that we will discuss today. I'll supply it to the General Board.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0048par0169	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0049par0171	Thank you, Mr. President. Through Parliamentary activities of the National Movement Party, we see attacks that we can call intense, systematic and largely raw and shallow in the past few weeks. The National Movement Party is behind all commitments made in its election declaration, using the tools it has in parliament to ensure that these commitments are fulfilled within its agenda. The National Movement Party is a party that dominates its own agenda, and we do not act on the agenda or pleasure of other parties. In the ongoing budget talks at the Plan and Budget Commission, a motion has been made for police officers, specialized gendarmes, specialist sergeants, 3600 additional indicators. Moreover, this motion was not even filed in the Commission on grounds of irregularity. This motion has been trying to develop some rhetoric on our party using a number of diversions and thesis methods, social media, since yesterday. This issue and these issues are a commitment in our election statement, and we have legal proposals from our party's deputies for the solution. Point is, the only way to get additional indicators up to 3,600 is to change the additional indicators in Section 657 of State Officers' Law.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0050par0176	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0049par0177	It's not going to work out by setting up a research commission, putting funds in the budget. No one can fool our citizens and our nation who are expecting this. These moves are exploiting the problems and expectations of our citizens. The National Movement Party will eliminate these and so-called initiatives, as it has been until today, from now on. Mr. President, one of the most valuable professions in the world is teaching. Teachers, it's our values that build tomorrow from today. In our country, teachers face many professional problems. We don't have time to address all these problems here, but I'd especially like to bring up a request from our chartered teachers who visited us last week.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0050par0180	Pack it up, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0049par0181	Our contract teachers are deprived of family integrity, their most basic constitutional rights. Teachers who are both under contract have been given the right to settle down as partners, but families that only one of them is a contract teacher cannot come together. For six years, our contract teachers have reached a level of threat to family integrity, and this matter needs to be resolved immediately, and I thank you very much. We also welcome and salute the members of the Mersin Tarosian Association of Veterans in the guest box of our Parliamentary General Assembly today and welcome them with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0050par0184	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0051par0186	Mr. President, of course, I am, first of all, the three miners and trade unions in the District of Kilimli, who have just been confirmed that they have lost their lives, say that they are six wounded, one of them heavy... of course, we wish the wounded immediate healing, our condolences, our patience, but I think this is not just one of the things we can address by asking for our patience, our condolences. The governorship is not able to answer the question of whether it is registered or not. We have no confirmation that it is a registered mine from the contact of our friends. Now the subject of subcontractors in our country has reached a point where no industry, no professional information, no employment requires profit alone, only by profiting from intermediaries, the subcontractor's subcontractor system. That, of course, makes us all pay with human life. Working in a mine is already desperate. Any other way, if you don't have the means to bring home some good food or bread, you'll be condemned to the mine, and you'll be going home at any moment with the possibility of your coffin and your funeral. We're looking at another example of this. So, at least, like Soma, Turkey is more responsible for the mines as a country in which we've lost more than 15 July history, in which we've lost more people in one day, in an hour, and more responsible for the mines, not only for profit ambition, but for taking a share of tenders, for caring for people and caring for human working conditions. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The second issue I wanted to share in 2004, 14 years ago, Uður Kaymaz, 12 years old, died in his yard, in his father's yard, with slippers on his feet, in the name of terror -- without any knowledge of conflict, without a fire, with 13 bullets in his body. Of course, 14 years after the incident, what was the extent of the trial that we should have questioned? Come on, security forces, with neglect, with flaws, with intent, whatever you want to call it, did such an act. So, what happened at the trial? He was acquitted in the trial process, then moved to the Constitutional Court, which is now being held in the Constitutional Court. The ECHM to Turkey was sentenced to 70,000 euros in fines, compensation, but the retrial process was rejected again. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] These practices, of course, are unacceptable, which does not contribute to national security, peace, human rights, the country's reputation, but what's more severe is that the judicial process has come in 14 years. If people don't face the injustice they've been through, the deprivation they've suffered, the trial they've suffered, in 14 years, and in a case as open as this, of course, it's not difficult to bring anyone back, but at least if they don't come up with an app to ease their consciences, it's only a punishment that repeats similar practices. This only serves tension, camping, anger and hatred in this country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0052par0193	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0053par0195	Thank you, Mr. President. We started today with a sad news story. Zonguldak has said that we have no hope in the lives of the three workers left behind in the Zonguldak district of Kilimli, about the unlicensed mine where two mine workers were rescued. And a few minutes ago, we got some bad news. It is reported that there was an explosion in an unregistered mine due to methane compression. I am highlighting the expression here, which is unsubstantiated. The ministries are in debt to both families and to the roof of the High Assembly because an unlicensed mine has been tolerated. It's a tragic coincidence that two years ago, on November 22, 2016, one of our miners was killed in another cave-in at a private mine in Kilimli. In 2014, after the largest mining accident in Turkey's history, a research commission was established. This Soma will be the last, and mothers won't cry again. In Turkey, our miners continue to die three shifts a day in licensed or unlicensed furnaces, and no mine is more secure than the mine in Soma (May 13th) on the morning of the disaster. He says that in order to not lose other lives, to prevent other children from going dark, to prevent other children from being fathered, to prevent other parents from being adopted, this Assembly must carefully focus on the matter, especially the Soma mining commission report, and I ask God's mercy on the mine martyrs we lost today. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, the European Court of Human Rights has made a decision in its decision to determine whether the arrest of Peoples' Democratic Party's Co-Chair, Peoples' Democratic Party' Democratic Party's (HDP) President, Selenhattin Demirtaş, is legal, that the right to freedom and security is violated and the right to free elections during a reasonable period of trial and trial. First, we stress once again our earlier position regarding the arrest of a political party's current leader for his words and political testimony, and other than that, we want to express our regret and horror in the statements that Justice and Development Party's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said that this decision was not binding. Just a month ago, on October 25th, this court signed a verdict on Austria. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our Prophet Muhammad made a decision that he would encourage similar attacks on a person who made incredible slanders and insulting statements against Muhammad, who carried out the sentence given by the Austrian authorities to the ECHM, which could not be associated with freedom of thought, it was a crime of hate, it was Islamophobia, and it was used to encourage similar attacks if they remained unrequited. All of the other media couldn't fit it in the sky at the same time, saying it was an important decision for the ECHR from their headlines. We support the decision made by the ECHR, and we find it true, but those who made the decision of the ECHR on that day do not bind us today. We also view it as a big discrepancy in the headlines. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has applied three times to the European Court of Human Rights. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who applied to the ECHR today on grounds that freedom of expression, religion and conscience had been violated and has not been judged fair, has been denied the right to be elected in the 2002 elections in order to erase the criminal record so that he could become a MP for a poem he read in Siirt. If it wasn't binding, why have you applied so far? After years of listening to the application of Mr. Hayrunnisa Gül, the wives of President Abdullah Gül, who lives in the ruling party, now that the ECHR is not seen as a serious judicial authority, I think it is clear that there is a break from the Council of Europe and... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...and all the illegal judgments here are out of control and in the new legal order that they've uncovered themselves, there must be no other testimony than that of those who see despotism and fascism as a basis for implementing it in the country. Finally, Mr. President, on August 9, 2018, I have a business card belonging to a lady who was officially appointed to the President's Advisory, the Sümeyra Merve Sword. This lady gets her salary from the president's office. According to the Official Gazette, he is the President's Counsellor, the President's Chief Advisor, but under his business card he writes "The Lady Counsellor." This is Mr. President's wife's advisor. What law, what clause, what regulations, what mind, what conscience... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Finally, Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. ...which moral right to assign advisors to the spouses of the presidents to pay the government's salary and to distribute it under a business card, Mr. President? This is to mock the sweat of the working class, which gives tax to the Republic of Turkey, to us, to the right of the orphan, to live on the sweat of its forehead -- proportionally giving the world's highest tax on wages -- that's the right of the slave, Mr. President, that's not acceptable behavior. You can be the President's Counsellor, but there is no such thing as the Lady Consultancy. Ladies are respected, ladies take their place in protocol, but they can't extend the right to an orphan. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0054par0216	Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0055par0218	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we are a country that recognizes the authority of the European Court of Human Rights from 1987 to today. At first, as our President and the EC PARTY Group, the Council of Europe, which we have been a member of so far, we work because our nation has the principles that it deserves to achieve these standards with reforms, assuming that our country deserves the acquisitor of the European Union, the universal human rights, the laws and democratic standards. See, yesterday's decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights have been, of course, criticised, criticised, and the European Court of Human Rights has also attempted to clear the way for its own home under these criticisms. All political parties present have also criticised the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights in the past about themselves or about different environments, which is normal, normal. See, the Republican People's Party has already appealed to the European Court of Human Rights because of its plot, and there is no violation here by the European Court of Human Rights. There are also decisions by Mustafa Balbay, Mehmet Haberal and Tuncay Özkan as well. And we would wish that the European Court of Human Rights, an international conspiracy against Turkey, as an external judiciary, as a mechanism, would be able to identify and see this plot as a position that Turkey respects and deserves. And here are the MPs who have previously applied to the European Court of Human Rights... and of course the evaluations will come out in history. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Is it possible that as an international mechanism, the European Court of Human Rights has been held captive by a lobby? Well, that's one thing to consider.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0056par0223	You're full of shit!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0055par0224	It's not bullshit. Listen, we're talking about information. See, in applications to the European Court of Human Rights in 2011 and 2012, why is there a European Court of Human Rights trying to design the civil society, the sports environments, the law environments, the police, the judiciary, with an unfortunate scheme in the framework of public planning? In Turkey, national courts, mechanisms, first-degree courts are an external mechanism that can be deciphered if a misjudgment has been misjudgmented or if a rule of law has gone into total slavery. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Unfortunately, it turns out that the European Court of Human Rights had previously been wrong in these tests, and then this plot, which the European Court of Human Rights could not see, was again seen, again, by the Supreme Court of Appeals, and this conspiracy was eliminated. As a result, the European Court of Human Rights has been criticised from yesterday to today, in cases where the verdicts have been misjudgmented, they have been registered, identified, and they have returned from these decisions. And again, I've been talking about the reforms we've been doing. You know, by implementing the Penal Code as soon as it comes in, by reforming the Penal Code, especially by the 311st Amendment, the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights have been made again in internal legal ways...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0057par0231	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0055par0232	With the European Court of Human Rights rulings opening the way for a retrial in the eyes of internal law authorities, the final decisions would be based on evaluation in internal legal ways, and we have done so with reforms that we have done so again. In a nutshell, I say: Whether there are decisions made today in domestic law or decisions made by international authorities or decisions made by the authorities, such decisions are always open to critiques that contribute to the development of law. If there is a final decision made by the European Court of Human Rights, since international contracts cannot be contrary to the Constitution, and the decisions made by the European Court of Human Rights are binding in Turkey, we will surely respect them as a political will. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But I also want to say that everyone should respect criticism. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0058par0237	Mr. Yavuz, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0059par0238	Mr. President, just for the record. I'd like to give you a political coordinate in this matter as well. As a proud, humble member of the nationalist war, who is said to have been taken under his feet, our Bayburtians say, "Beware me, I will be disgraced with my own mind until I become a queen." We combine the responsibility of our nationalism with the precision of not complaining about our own state, our nation, against the outside. In the 80 revolutions, the parliamentarians of the European Commission for Human Rights have not heard or heard a sentence from the nationalists they asked for. What I know is that I owe to express it with sensitivity is that when you see hope for yourself, when others see hope, I say that the language of blame has made politics unreputed. I like the frame that Mr. Recep spoke about yesterday, in his speech today; he's starting to sound like the January president. I like it, but it's become an application for themselves. I mean February 28th, since then, we've been suffering from complaining about our state not being fair. After years of not having this sensitivity, now I'm talking about it because it's making politics look bad, or else I like sentences. Just for the record, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0058par0239	Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0060par0241	Mr. President, about this ECHR decision, I feel the need at least once again to describe where we stand in terms of a healthy public knowledge. Of course, either the ECHR decisions or the Constitutional Court decisions can be discussed, criticised, questioned, and made very clear emphasis that they are missing. But not knowing and not doing what is necessary is not knowing the limits of the law, but not knowing the Constitution. One of the good things this government has done is to make international contracts a part of internal law by putting the 90th article into the Constitution in the process of running for the European Union. So if we take a stand against the people behind the fact that we're doing the rights of the victims, of course, in the international arena, as well as directly as in Turkey's position, it is imperative to discuss, of course, the rights of the victims. Justice is sought wherever it is. Human rights are no one's internal affairs. Of course, the sovereignty of every country is worthy of respect. But it's a responsibility for every country to complete justice inside, to solve problems. Just yesterday, we sent messages about Mevlit Kandili. In the life of the prophet, there are examples of what religion justice is, what religion it is, what right it is to be sought everywhere, and there are very concrete examples of the judgment of those who rule with justice, not of their beliefs. While we've been made an arrangement regarding the procreation -- it's a very important decision again -- knowing that the compensation that caused the breach has been paid to the country's own budget, not harming society's pocket, not paying for its own money, while the judges and prosecutors have spent millions of euros of education on the decisions of the ECHM... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] However, there is no real explanation for the approach to not implementing the ECHR decision. We don't know what it means to finish the job. Of course, there may be a technical way to do this, the method may be wanted, but I think it's one of the most important responsibilities of political power, whether we like it or not, what the law requires, not to take it the other way around. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0061par0247	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0062par0249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can't believe what you're hearing, you're doubting the Turkish you know. We would wish that the AIHM could see this plot. is used when left behind by living in the past. If you say, "We desire" and you've heard from your elders, there's a past name, there's a margin for error. We were all there, you guys, you were all there. In the ECHM, we were tearing ourselves up to say that these cases were conspiracy. The lawyers you assigned, the ones you had the government pay for, were defending the Balyoz and Ergenekon cases in the ECHM. We've been taking promises here, they've misled the ECHR, they've made false arguments, they've unfairly presented false evidence as truth. Your speakers were taking words, from the stand, from the place, from the place, from the place, and from the place, sir, from the state, our nation, from the bowels of our nation, from the bowels of our nation, and from the strikers. The CHP can't get rid of the mindset of coup. Now they're out, three years ago, four years ago... The European Court of Human Rights, the criminal, couldn't see the plot. Well, he couldn't see, did you, brother? You didn't see it yourself here, you knit it, you dictate it, you protect it, you feed it, you fatten it. You won't see it from here, the ECHR will see it from there! Then when we criticised the decision at the time... See, now he's saying: "He's under the influence of the lobby. " E has justified Erdogan's decision at the time! On the influence of the ▪ lobby, he justified girls who applied for a headscarf in his decision at the time, who had been denied the right to education! There is one true; right, law; right, truth; truth; right, truth; right, conscience! [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you change your conscience day after day, according to the conjunctive, and you're on one side against the truth, not if you're on the other, you'll look ridiculous, and you'll make Turkey look ridiculous. The decisions may be criticised, but President Erdogan says we don't know the decision. He says the group rebuts Erdogan, and we will be recognized. President Erdoğan says it is not binding for us. He says it is impossible to tell the truth and not be binding after decision. Have a closed group meeting, tell that to your president, brother! We know, he doesn't!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0063par0256	Cahit, why don't you yell a little? Speak loud and I'll listen loud, brother!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0257	I'm looking for a round of applause.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0063par0258	Okay, I promise.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0260	Thank you, Mayor. Look, we stand by what we say. What we're talking about is complete in one another. For example, because he asked me a question, he says: "What did you do?" What didn't we do? Look, what we're doing is consistent with these legal arrangements under the roof of Congress. Why did we ask for the removal of special jurisdictional courts in 2012? In 2012, in the February 7th crisis of the MIT, why did we bring the arrangement that connects with the Prime Minister's permission to prosecute members of the MIT in this country? Then why are we alone under the roof of this House? What did we do in 2012 and 2013 -- we've done so much in December 17 yet? By implementing the four separate judicial packages, we have implemented judicial packages on shortening their detention period, the extension of judicial control and supervised liberalisation. It wasn't enough, but what did they do at that time, because we exported four judges, which was in our era -- which the HSYK did? They called it the judgment of Saray. Guys, if this is an extension of a terrorist organization, if the HSYK has made a decision about it, why is it the court's jurisdiction because they've been exported? At that time, the provision that raised the age of being a member of the Supreme Court to 40 ▪ so that the elements of them would not be elected to the Supreme Court. When you look at the whole package of internal security, all changes made from the MIT Law to the Supreme Court Law are regulations made prior to December 17th. Didn't the President say it was the same time...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0065par0264	Weren't you defending them on TV with Reşat Petek? Weren't you the one who used to trumpet the congregation? Weren't you the one who collaborated with the framers? Aren't you ashamed to talk like that here?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0066par0265	Gentlemen, let's hear it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0266	You can't call the Chief of Staff of this country the leader of the terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0065par0267	The blood of the people's deaths is in your hand, brother, and the blood of your party with Reshat Petek. It's a mafia organization called justice and development that makes the congregation, okay? It's you, you!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0268	See, in this country, there is a Supreme Court decision on how much it infiltrated the state before 2002. In that Supreme Court decision, see, what does it say about the cases of Noah Mete Ascension? And then look at the book of Necip Hablemitoglu, which is written and published, has no government of the EC. In law enforcement, intelligence, judiciary, bureaucracy, armed forces -- then he says -- the community, the PKK, has taken full control. When's the date? 2002 is the month of June, when the book was published. When you look at the whole thing today, Turkey has been facing an attack by planned, programmed, international terrorist organizations, where national will has been at risk for 60 years. If you want to have infertile conflicts in this country again today, there's no use to anyone behind them. The question is... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President, if I may.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0067par0273	Mr. President, excuse me, I'd like to say something. This has been discussed a lot, and Turkey has talked a lot about it, our politicians.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0274	Mr. President, if you'd like me to complete my promise.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0067par0275	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0064par0276	In short, I don't want to be challenged again. My files are here, and it'll take a long time, but I won't be long. Look, I express in particular in defense of the law of Republican People's Party law: After it has been determined that it is a plot, and our Supreme Court has decided on this issue, I wonder why those who orchestrated that plot were given the benefit of the past and why would everyone do so? The file's here, I'm not opening it right now, so whoever knows it knows it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0068par0279	Who went to who?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0069par0280	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0070par0281	Dear Private...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0069par0282	Mr. President, let's not go any further so he can file a report. In 2010, we were building a bridge. When they tried to take over the high judiciary by changing the constitution, they said, "When we were struggling around, the Parliament and the Assembly were defending this side of the Parliament for the 2010 change and remove the dead from the tomb, and let them vote." I was saying no at the TV station where I could find it at the time, and Mr. Cahit said yes with him. (HPP, HDP, and GOOD PARTY) Today's 400-alarm change is the change of that day. From that day on, 17-25... it was 17-25 months after Cahit Bey was sobered up, but in those processes I was writing a book called the Balyoz Kumba, and in those cases I was writing a book, Mr. Cahit, who defended the coupters, published books, and held a signing day. So we need to be consistent, both personally and historically. If there's no consistency, you'll hang your face, call what you called white yesterday black today, or black yesterday white today. Our great nation will make the most of who speaks and defends who under this roof in front of history.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0071par0285	Mr. President, just for the record. In particular, there is a Republican People's Party in Turkey who points out the plot, and I honor them here and ask God for immediate healing. There's an F-type structure in Turkey. President Deniz Baykal, who said "F" had actually demonstrated the fight against this terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0072par0287	There's Kamer Young too.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0071par0288	We wish to continue with the same determination, but let me tell you about myself, what did we say in the MIT Law, what did we say about the special jurisdictional courts in Turkey today? We are the ones who say, "Let the times of imprisonment be restricted, let them be judged in supervised freedom, and let them be judged according to the result of a crime if there is one." I say we go for it. See, everyone has advisors, instruct your advisors, listen to the conversations of Cahit Özkan, take notes, and when it comes to aiding, abetting, what has he done, what has he done, what has he done, what has he done?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0073par0289	Aren't you the one who suppressed the Lighthouse?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0071par0290	Let's go! But in my papers, I don't say December 17-25, if you say December 17-25, they say you did it when he touched you. No, what we did when he touched the Chief of Staff, step by step... after the plot was revealed to Republican People's Party MPs...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0074par0291	Let's wrap it up, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0071par0292	...who organized this scheme, and who in Asia went to support in Silivri? I offer them to our nation's discretion. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0075par0294	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0076par0295	We won't be able to go on the agenda, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0075par0296	Let's go, sir. Mr. President, we see, we raise the hand, and we promise to put all the praises that Cahit Ozkan has given to the faculty Parliament before it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0077par0299	I'll bring it, I'll wait, I'll tell you over there. Say, I'll wait.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0075par0300	We'll give the order immediately.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0078par0301	Mr. Bilgen, without a taunt, here, pick it up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0079par0303	Mr. President, I'm not going to be picking on you, I'm just going to point out two other crises that are directly related to this discussion. Someone, Turkey, has been unable to appoint a judge to the ECHM for a long time. One of the crises between the ECHR and Turkey is this, not only is this the implementation of the final decision, because the proposed names do not know the languages of which the European Court of Human Rights is based on, or are recommended private legal names, not in the field of public law. Thus, this shows how serious, gravely involved Turkey is with the ECHR. The second issue -- which has been debated since the beginning of the period -- is that if there was so much postmarked in the judicial process of a period, a political will is now revealed about the continuing trial of lawmakers, like the Omar Ocalan file that was read here yesterday. Each of us, from 83, from 20, from whichever of us is being tried, the collection of evidence in lawmakers' trial files, the preparation of the proceedings was done by judges and prosecutors who are now in prison. It's not very right to stand behind him and take him for granted, but to create an era, I guess. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0080par0306	Here you are, Mr. Yavuz.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0081par0308	It is the duty of the government's political authority to prevent its nation from taking over the disaster, such as preventive intelligence, before anything happens to its government. In the 16 years you've been in power, despite all the warnings from the opposition, the government should be ashamed of your share of the government's power, which has brought your learning costs into this country at greater cost than anyone has ever witnessed. You make sentences that make it sound like we've delivered them to the people of the PKK in the process of resolving their homeland. I beg you, at least... I mean, we've been with you. We're just making a statement about your political imprudence. But political impotence is the reason for the embarrassment of a statesman after a certain margin, the reason for his resignation, the reason for his resignation. I really don't appreciate that nothing has fallen into your stock, no matter what. I mean, there may be a lot of things that you've been in power for 16 years, but when you say what you've lost, it's like you're talking like there's Kemal Kilicdaroglu in power and Coral Akşener in power, no matter what. You know, we come from the ground where we treat any man in our neighborhood who can do those warnings when Kamer Young -- God bless him -- when he does those warnings. So if the average neighborhood imam came to say what Kamer Young had said, he would now have 300,500,000 followers. (PARTI and CHP rows) So while we're talking about the cost of our inability to do so, I beg you, let's just have a sensitivity: we're going to talk about this matter -- hopefully later on -- before we can be able to speak on a healthy ground -- before this government can normalize, look, it won't normalize. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] We didn't get one guy from the Politburo, one guy; we didn't get one guy from the command post. All of our government's officials have grown weary of asking the United States of America for Fetullah Smiley. And if anyone sees you, you'll think you've killed yourself for the treatment you've given a terrorist leader, and the second one, you'll kill him. What did you do with the first and what would you do with the second? So we have to, in a way, at least, determine the way these issues are spoken. The reason I've brought it up is so that we can talk about our neighborhood's shame, so that we can talk seriously about our responsibilities, so that we don't have unnecessary debates, we don't have to argue, we don't have to talk about names, we have to talk about adjectives. It's always because the Republican People's Republican People's Party (CHP) has returned to arm wrestling... and the CHP's sensitivities in this matter... and the sensitivity of the opposition, which has sometimes been joined by the MHP (M.H.P.)... and I say, as the President of your former partners... that the state is ruled, because these are your former partners, and since these are your former partners... it's nothing more than the ambition of the opposition... that we can put the elements of your former partnerships on your head. But your eagerness to remove a member of the opposition makes us unable to discuss it. So we're not going to be able to solve this issue -- believe this -- because we're not going to normalize this policy -- and we're going to see how I'm going to take this matter to a place where we can't do our responsibilities on time, with the shame of our neighborhood, with the burden of our responsibilities, with the cost of not being able to meet the state and the nation, and if God allows it, believe me -- I'm going to take you, brother -- and I'm going to take this matter to a place where it's supposed to be talked to. We'll all talk together.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0082par0312	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0083par0315	I want to be on the agenda. One thing in particular, Mr. President. No one has come here by chance, everyone has been in Parliament with great effort. I am carefully continuing my relations with you. It's been talked about a lot, it's been explained a lot. When justice was spoken in Turkey, I personally watched from the beginning; we spent years in prison, acquitted. So there are times when justice is to be discussed, and there are better grounds for discussing certain issues. You gave me the answers, Mr. Special, Mr. Bilgen answered, and Mr. Yavuz told me about it. Let's move on to the agenda, if you like.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0082par0317	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0083par0318	Without a pick-me-up...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0082par0319	To pick it up, not to pick it up...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0083par0320	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0082par0323	Mr. President, thank you. As you mentioned, everything was talked about in this dome, but for 16 years, of course, being in power, as the AK PARTY Group, and being the 1st party here... when many things are judged by the forest, not looking at the tree, then a world can be answered for it. I'd also like to point out that when you look at your trunk like an elephant, not at your belly, not at your foot, but at an ashtray, you're going to spend 16 years... See, the leader of the terrorist organization said: "If I had the right to an intercession, I would use it for this. " But I'll use it for this. But thanks to such a traitor, such a terrorist organization's ringleader, only great curses have fallen on us. We are eternally thankful to God that we have dealt with these curses. And we will continue to fight with all the MPs and groups under the roof of this Parliament, along with the terrorist organizations, PKK, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), NYD (PKK) and the YPG (YPG).
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0084par0326	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0085par0327	You're not listening to us. You should have listened to the MHP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0084par0328	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0086par0329	Mr. President, during the Chambers and Exchanges' Law Proposal talks last night, some of the Republican People's Party's speakers addressed the speech made by our friend Cemal Enginyurt, the MP of the National Movement Party, Mr. Cemal Enginyurt, and there were some polemics. Of course, Mr. Cemal Enginyurt was not in the General Assembly at the time due to his alibi, so Mr. Cemal Enginyurt would like to exercise his right to answer, as he referred to his own personal speech, as well as an evaluation and a polemic.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0084par0330	Yes, please, I'll give you a moment of your time.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0087par0332	Mr. President, thank you. Last night, in my speech, your candidate for the MP wins. The CHP speakers, especially a friend who has no merit except to shout, I will not say back and forth about me, he has always spoken backward and backward. I'd like to tell this fellow that he's the one who backed down from what he said. I've never been back, and I'm not planning on coming back. When I was describing Izmir, I don't know who was the candidate in Izmir -- because he told him that the head of the Izmir Chamber of Commerce was a candidate during his speech, I came to him from my heart and said, "If there is such a candidate from the Cumhur Alliance in İzmir, in order to express my satisfaction... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'll wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0088par0337	Pack it up, Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0087par0338	The Izmiri Cumhur Alliance itself -- the president of the Public Chamber of Commerce and other parties -- says, "I don't even know the name of the Chamber of Commerce" -- said I would be pleased for the Cumhur Alliance. I didn't ask for any evidence on my way to the Supreme Court. The president of Fatsa's Chamber of Commerce also resigned, and I could have told you that, but it was my own country, so I didn't say it as a courtesy. I'd like to remind Free Private that these are the following things that I've just said, this side, this side. It says that we're elected MPs too. I think it would be very healthy if you didn't speak back and forth. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0089par0341	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0090par0342	Mr. Special, he didn't tell you anything, he made an assessment.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0089par0343	No, no... what else is he gonna say, sir?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0091par0344	What else is he gonna say? Deputy Director of the Group...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0090par0345	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0089par0347	Mr. President, of course, now that there's an argument between the equations, it's polemic, but maybe the mistake of a friend yesterday was to refer to a name without paying attention to the concept of equality, and then we went on without paying attention to this concept of equality on the criticism of that friend in our group, if we're wrong, it's him. I've been told not to continue, as I remind you of the word. First, we break the iPhone to protest the U.S., then when Brunson left, we're stuck, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone, he's gone. (Applause and laughter from the CHP rows) (This is an alliance?) It does not look good on March 31st to make a press statement on November 16th for the PARTI. After the statement began, Mr. State Gardenlı's explanations tie him up, does not bind us. He is telling the truth, not my words, but the words of my president-in-chief. It is true what he says. It is not my words that I am saying. It is not the Free Special, it is not me who says. Besides, I'm not the one who made all those promises to the YIT people, to the pensioners, to vote first, to vote first -- there's nothing -- and then toss it as a tweet -- and then toss it out as a direct order from headquarters, and then toss it out when the attitude changes, I'm not the one who wipes it off. He who breaks his word is an abomination!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0092par0350	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0093par0351	We're wondering what he's going to say, Mr. President!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0092par0352	Don't worry, we've got something to say, we're no match for you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0094par0353	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0095par0354	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0094par0355	There is an open taunt of Mr. Special. Let him answer from the stand, if you will.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0095par0356	I'll give you my word on that.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0096par0357	No, Mr. President, please...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0095par0358	I mean, it's a tease, really. Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt. Don't pick on me this time.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0097par0361	I hope so. Mr. President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. First of all, let me start by saying that I didn't break the iPhone. You follow everything, especially my tweets, but you don't follow me closely. I said I returned my iPhone on white TV and in my press release that I had replaced it with another brand phone. My mayor was with me, and he broke a demo phone saying the press would do it, and it was meant to be news.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0098par0368	You've fooled the whole nation!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0097par0369	Yeah, you're so smart! Thank you. Our intentions, our intentions were clear. On that day, we wanted to give as much support as we could to the President of the Republic of Turkey against the imperialist attack that Trump had launched on the Republic of Turkey. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And then, right, when Brunson was released, we expressed our system, and we said, "Brunson shouldn't have been released because he was an agent, he was a Kurdistan Workers, we felt sorry for his release. This was our right, and we didn't go back on our word. Mr. President threw a tweet on my statement, it's true. I made a statement warning the AK PARTY. I said polls and street alerts. Mr. President-in-Chief said: "The views of Mr. Cemal Enginyurt are of no concern to us. I've thrown them away, it's true that the views of Mr. State Gardener are bound by the MHP. Cemal Enginyurt can't speak bindingly of the DP as an MP. Do you know what kind of country I am? Whatever the State Gardener says, it is our honor to be loyal to the leader. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] He who speaks out of the word of the State shall be wronged on his behalf, and I doubt his judgment.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0099par0376	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0097par0377	Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. As for those of you who are old in retirement, we voted to accept the motion, but we found that you're playing horon, you're pulling a rope, and we said, "The research proposal and the commission won't do any good for those who live in retirement." Hopefully, the AK will get together with the PARTI people, talk to them, and those who live in retirement need the law. Law 4447 has been wronged, applied backwards, and we need to fight for it to change. As for equality, Free Private: 40 years is enough for you if I give you the intelligence of my mind.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0381	If you'll excuse me, sir, let's give an answer to the intelligence of the mind.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0101par0382	Let's not continue the process, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0384	Mr. President, there's a lot to talk about, but if Erdogan sees me during an election campaign, he'll want me instead of six AKP people because they couldn't silence Free Special. If it were me, he'd be in intensive care for three days.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0385	Did it hurt too much?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0386	...not to speak to the Parliament, where it is spoken, but to come to the point of not to talk to them. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, Mr. Cemal, you were just on this bench, you said: I didn't break my iPhone.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0389	No, I didn't.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0390	Look, I'm reading your tweet, people, and we broke the iPhone to protest against America because of Brunson.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0391	You wouldn't understand! You don't have that level!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0392	Brunson got on the first plane, and he left. Friend, am I to be angry that America and I are divided, or that my broken iPhone, or that I am angry that Agent Brunson is free? We're stuck in the middle! Give me my iPhone. I'm very upset with him!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0393	You give it to me!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0394	Guys, guys, that's the agent. [[Applause from CHP rows]] You've seen the man who came to the parliament saying, "I won't speak." You've seen the man who said, "We can't have reverse gear."
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0397	I didn't throw that tweet.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0100par0398	The congressman's here. Appreciation, folks. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0102par0401	Did I erase that tweet, Free? Has he been erased?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0103par0402	Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0104par0403	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0103par0404	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0104par0405	Of course, there's no point in continuing these arguments.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0103par0406	I promise you, I'll turn on your microphone.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0105par0407	Mashallah! It's so beautiful, so happy, so happy! Well done, well done!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0106par0408	You do that, we'll give you an answer.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0105par0409	You do it, and we'll give you your answer, Free Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0106par0410	It'll be fine. What's the big deal?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0107par0411	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0108par0414	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, you have to ask the Republican People's Party Group, who's in charge at the Republican People's Party? I think it's Mr. Kilicdaroglu's. So at the Republican People's Party -- we'll find out about it -- in the past few days...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0109par0417	Why did you discipline Gürsel Erol?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0108par0418	...a lot of opinions have been expressed by Mr. Kilicdaroglu about the talks made by many MPs. That's natural, too. Lawmakers also make assessments either in their own constituency or within their own framework, which is natural. It's not a big deal. I wanted to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0110par0420	We're going on the agenda, dear MPs. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. THE Good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on 21/11/2018 Wednesday (now), I respectfully submit that the following proposal of our group should be submitted to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. GOOD PARTY Group Vice President Thousands of public employees in our country have been facing additional indicator problems for many years. In order to resolve this problem and to provide 3600 additional indicators to the public employees, the police, the teacher, the health worker and the religious staff, to investigate how many people are covered by the trade groups mentioned, to investigate whether there is such a situation in other trade groups, and to provide 3600 additional indicators to those groups of professions, it has been proposed by the IYI PARTI Group Vice President and İstanbul MP Yavuz Aşalioglu to conduct talks on 21/11/2018, on 21/047, in order to ensure that they can be conducted in front of the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkey. On behalf of the well-advised group, Adana MP Ismail Konçuk, to explain the reason for the proposal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0111par0438	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. It's not just a word used in Adana, but we used to say a lot when we were young. When a promise was not made, the word came out of the mouth. Now, in politics, the word actually comes out of the mouth, but unfortunately, our nation now sees that some of the words that come out of the mouth are meant to deceive people, and you know that. Dear lawmakers, the promise of 3,600 additional indicators is a promise made by Mr. President in an election sale email. It is in fact the duty of every congressman to follow that promise. So in his claim to be the deputy of the nation, he has a obligation to stand by the politician's promise to the nation. Yesterday is yesterday. With his understanding, politics can be done, but it will not be moral, we will undermine the nation's trust in politics. For him, this 3600 additional indicator issue is not only for the promised groups... but for them, first of all, there must be a law regulation coming up on November 24th, for teachers, for health workers and for our police, for our religious officials, but afterwards, for all officers who are old and no longer fit for the economic facts of Turkey. From time to time, in exchange for our proposals here, or rather our proposals to investigate Congress, sir, why do we need to investigate Congress? Make a law, that's enough... E, bring it out, brother, you've made a law, and we're in your way? You're not making a promise, you're not making a law, and we're addressing our entire nation from here, by asking for a parliamentary examination of these platforms to remind you of your promise. Therefore, parliamentary research is extremely important. It's called Parliamentary Research to face the failure of those who break their promise. We are now confronting the AK PARTY Group with a motion by Yavuz Zekilioğlu to investigate parliament. If the word comes out, the promise of 3,600 additional indicators must be fulfilled. Come on, offer me a law to fulfill that promise, give me an AK PARTY Group, or there are offers, and let's bring them up. Before the 24th of November, you bring in a lot of crappy legal offers, here are the 13th, 14, 15, 16th row proposals, and there's no urgency. I made it clear here yesterday that I was the one who brought up the preeminent proposals of the law. You've forgotten man. You've forgotten man. When Sheikh Edebali said: "Live man so that the state may live." It's a promise that the President often uses so that the state may live. When you promise our citizens in the polls, you have to make a promise of what you're really going through. I've just said, Mr. President, that the person at the top of this country is the person whose word is not in the 100-day Action Plan, and because it's not in your medium-term plan, our teachers, our police, our religious officials and our health workers are starting to wonder if this promise will not be fulfilled. Go out, say it, and if you don't keep that promise, say: 'We are done, brother.' We do not keep our word. Let us know, and we will speak according to it, and we will criticize according to it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0112par0445	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0111par0446	But if you will keep your promise, come out here -- Mr. Cahit Özkan jumps from there to every conversation -- make a promise, brother -- that we will make the necessary arrangements until then. You deny everything, though. So you made leftists, made nationalists, you couldn't remember sleeping with them in sheep's sheep, you don't remember. Oh, my God, you guys are so full of shit.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0113par0448	I swear it doesn't look good!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0111par0449	How can you be so naughty? How can you not accept it? Tell him we're sorry. We'll understand.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0113par0450	Don't be rude!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0111par0451	Mr. President has stated that he's been deceived; that one may be wrong, that one may be wrong in choosing one's friends, but you have to admit that it's not ethical to infect other people. That's what we're saying. We remember the speeches of your ministers, your deputies. At the Turkish Olympics... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Our eyes are on the road. We also remember their words.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0114par0455	If you don't do it in every conversation, you end up with every conversation.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0111par0456	You're starting every conversation, we're finishing it, and we're going to be the ones finishing it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0115par0458	Yes, thank you. On behalf of the nationalist movement group...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0116par0460	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0115par0461	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0116par0462	Mr. President, normally that's never a bearable issue. At the age of your honor, in his duties in this National Assembly, I am returning the statement to that court, which is never copyrighted, which will never be accepted, which is never in accordance with the terms of the House of the Interior. This, see, is a clear disrespect to the dignity of this House, to the dignity of our nation. We return this, we deny it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0117par0464	Did I do it? I didn't do it. We started the KPSS theft in 2010, and you said it was a thorough test. Of course, you slept in sheep's sheep and ignored their thefts. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0118par0465	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Kalayci,
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0119par0466	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your high council. The additional indicator is very important for public employees. 3600 additional indicators are one of the critical thresholds. The 3600 additional indicators are particularly important for the pension. Although he received the precedents today, he cannot benefit from the 3600 additional indicators that work in many groups of titles and professions. As a matter of fact, teachers, police officers, expert sergeants, expert gendarmes, public defenders and lawyers, deputy mayors of local administrations, and office heads, university secretary general assistants, nurses and some health workers, religious officials, some experts, researchers, managers and branch managers cannot receive 3,600 additional indicators, and there are no additional indicators for the assistant service class. Turkey has done a comprehensive study of KAMU-SEN additional indicators. We also took advantage of this study, and prepared 3600 additional indicators of the National Movement Party, and on 11 October 2018, our proposal to the Parliamentary Presidency -- which is with me -- has been transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission. In our proposal, the additions of Law 657 have been discussed in detail, and additional indicator numbers have been redesigned in hierarchical order for all service classes. The personnel of the auxiliary service class are also included in the additional indicator. The additional indicator has been calculated as well as the increase in pensions and costs of each title raised while working. Therefore, there is no need for a parliamentary investigation into the matter from our point of view. We, the National Movement Party, have done the necessary research and work and have submitted our proposal for the law. We as the National Movement Party have our word that whatever we say in our June 24th election statement, we're working to get it done, and hopefully we'll do it. Mr. President, some motions issued in both the General Assembly and the Plan and Budget Commission are reflected differently to the public. No, the problem of pensioners has been challenged. There are 3600 additional indicators that have been denied to the police. No tax is denied. There are statements and social media sharings, such as the fact that there is no connection to the fact. Subjects are being abused, distorted. The righteous expectations of pensioners and workers are abused politically. As lawmakers, we all know that building a research commission doesn't solve the problem. It detects the problem...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0120par0471	Pick it up, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0119par0472	...and suggestions. Proposals are brought up only by an offer of the law. The problem of pensioners, minimum-payers, public employees who expect 3600 additional indicators is also clear, and the solution is clear; regulations of relevant laws must be made. Therefore, the responsible, consistent, and honest nature of politics under moral principles is a situation that at least every politician should pay attention. Let's give our citizen the right information. I thank you, I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0120par0475	Adana MP Kemal Peköz on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0121par0479	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on behalf of my party's motion on behalf of the good PARTY. Dear friends, when we were young and in childhood, when we retired, officers would buy a dwelling with pensions, and they would have a more comfortable environment to live in. That's why contract personnel must be waived. Our party opinion on this motion is that it must be supported; we support it very openly, and we say that it must be implemented indiscriminately to all public employees. We feel that such matters as paying teachers must be terminated immediately, and that pay teachers should be recruited like other teachers, and that 3600 additional indicators must be used indirectly. Dear friends, the European Court of Human Rights ruled yesterday that Turkey is binding. This decision may be critical, it may be different approaches, but it doesn't connect. It's nothing but an absurdity, to say the least. Dear friends, every time I go to Adana, I find an issue. There are about 2,500 students who are trained in health care and are interning at various health care institutions in Adana. During these internships, they were taking advantage of their lunches by this year, and if they were on the night shift, they were taking advantage of their dinner free of charge. Recently, they have lost the chance to take advantage of these meals, and 2,500 trainees are either meeting food from the canteen or starving for the duration of their work. Dear friends, it's impossible to separate any of the public employees from the other, all in their own fields, serving this country according to their originality. All states, except the tribal states, have the main duties of the state, and three of them are inevitable: rights to housing, rights to education and health. An important part of public employees operate in these areas. So they're doing their best not to retire, even though they're old enough to retire, because when they retire, they're having a hard time providing their lives because they're far less than the pension they get. It also causes people to retire at an older age and causes no ground for the creation of employment.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0122par0485	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0121par0486	Therefore, the implementation of the 3600 additional indicators and the redecorating of the ruler and preventing it from being dealt with at once are mandatory, both in terms of employment and in terms of increasing human living standards. So, I support the motion, and I say we vote positive. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0122par0489	Kayseri MP Çetin Arık on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0123par0493	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute our Veteran Assembly and its representatives, the MPs. Dear lawmakers, our dear nation is sending us to these places to organize state affairs, to meet the demands and expectations of our nation, to solve their problems. In the squares, we promise our nation that we will meet their demands and expectations, that we will solve their problems. Yes, we all promise, but some forget these words after the election, after they've taken power from the nation. See, what Mr. Bakili Yıldırım says after the election: "What is said in election campaigns and when responsibility is put on your shoulders, your words will never be the same." What does he mean? Until our word gets your vote, he says. This approach is said to be true in our Anatolian district, which is called "surprising" in the court. Dear lawmakers, it's time to tell the truth in the police station, in the court, and in the House. (CHP clapping in rows) It's time to fulfill our promises to citizens without bending or bending them. One way or another, all political parties have pledged 3,600 additional indicators to public employees in the polls. Today, the Good PARTY Group has also submitted a research motion for the necessary work to be provided with 3,600 additional indicators. We support the establishment of the research commission, but it's not enough; we demand that execution guards, specialists, public defenders, public defenders, and academic professions in public be evaluated within the scope of 3,600 additional indicators. Dear lawmakers, Mr. President has forgotten his promise in the election squares and has not included the 3,600 additional indicators he promised public employees within the 100-day Action Plan, but in return, Mr. Noble Minister of Interior promised 3600 about the police. It's a promise, and we stand by it. Yes, now we ask you not to leave the Home Secretary's word on the ground, but more than that, to fulfill your promise to the nation. Come, stand behind your promise, and say yes to the research motion for the 3600 additional indicators. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers, I would also like to address the MPs who are in a quandary, wavering, backslide, between the haste to fulfill their commitment in the fields here and their instructions. Don't say "yes." Don't say "no." Stand up for your promise to the people who are your guardians, and do not play with people's hopes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0124par0503	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0123par0504	Come on, let's all vote for our nation. I salute the High Council. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0125par0508	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0126par0512	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I salute you all. We're talking about a technicality, 3,600 additional indicators. The additional indicator is essentially a subject on the basis of the officer's staff title, degree, service class, duty, level of responsibility and hierarchical position. When this promise is fulfilled -- God willing -- there will be an increase in pensioners' monthlys of between $300 and $700, and 600,000 will affect perhaps 1 million people according to the study. In short, we're talking about a technical issue, and since 1995, we've been talking about a study of part-time sergeants and policemen, only by the powers of the AK PARTI. Now, there is a promise made by our President. Yeah, well, it's out of the question, but our congressman, the lawmakers, who's been making these speeches -- I don't think they've come out now -- we've been in power for 16 years, we've been in public 14 times; 6 general, 3 local, 3 referendums, 2 presidential elections, and we're talking about a party that's always had the highest amount of support because it's fulfilled their commitments. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) The word comes out of the mouth and the AK PARTY has fulfilled that promise. Along with the Cumhur Alliance, it will continue with a stronger, more determined step. As Mr. Kalaycı said, there is an offer on the law, and the AK PARTY Group is conducting a study. When our lawmakers are done working with the relevant ministry, they'll give us their proposal. We're talking about something important. I know when to start, who to give... that our responsible party, as part of a party that has failed to keep its promises, and who has not been given them, will be fulfilled when the time comes, and I know that this work will be done as soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0127par0517	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0126par0518	Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think there's a need to set up a research commission on this matter as I end my words. We're going to do the technical work, we're going to make the offer, and hopefully, when the day comes, this promise will be fulfilled, and I give you all my regards.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0127par0521	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Dear MPs, Deniz Yavuzylmaz Bey has a request to make a statement concerning Zonguldak. Yes, Mr. Deniz.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0128par0526	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, five of our miners were buried in an explosion in a private mine in Zonguldak Kilimli district around 3 p.m. Survivors from Turkey's Taşkomömu Foundation participated in rescue efforts by entering the stove, and our miners, the Universe Cinemre and Adam Alibas, were removed from the cave. As of today, unfortunately, three of our mine workers, Sergeant Kenan, Hasan Youngturk, and Uğur Göktaş, have been found dead. In this poverty order, I say once again that our miners are working hard, fighting for their lives to bring home the bread in this great House. The miner, who was saved by the wish of our miners' hope that their fate be not death, says to our brothers and sisters, that we may have God's mercy, family, relatives, colleagues, all of Zonguldak and Turkey.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0127par0531	The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on 21/11/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. On 12 November 2018, the Council of Adana MP Mr. Tulay Hatimlari was proposed by Oruç and his friends to hold talks on Wednesday (21/11/2018) in the next motion to investigate the sexist rights violations against women working 822 rows. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimogülllar Orç to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0129par0544	Mr. President, lawmakers, women's employment is far behind on the world scale, but in Turkey, when we look at the scale of the EU and the world, it comes much further back. Women are unfortunately secondary at work because of the dominant structure of society and the sexism of the economic system. According to the Global Gender Segregation Report, prepared by the World Economic Forum in 2017, Turkey ranked 131th among 144 countries in gender inequality. The partnership of the capital system with the male dominant system has reshaped sexism in its own unique way. The working woman works twice and is exploited for her domestic services. In addition to her invisible labor at home, there are three things that stand out when we look at her work market situation: low wages, employment problems, and first layoffs. According to the 2015 TÜİK data, employment rate in Turkey is 46 per cent of the population aged 15 and up. This rate is 65 per cent in men and, unfortunately, 27.5 per cent in women. According to the same report, when European Union countries are examined, the male employment rate is 70.8 per cent and the female employment rate is 60.4 per cent. By looking at these figures, we can decide where Turkey is. The gender distribution of full-time employees registered in Turkey in 2014 is 12 million 603 in men and 3 million in women. When we look at the percentage of part-time employees in the same painting, men are 992,000, women are 1 million 502,000. Dear lawmakers, we said women are being first kicked out, and we can put the ongoing Flormar resistance as the most important example. The Flormar workers are continuing their resistance today on their 191st day, and the resistance, not the Flormar, improves it. They want to intervene in the ongoing resistance with its slogan; the fire they burn, even the songs they sing. Do you know why the women who worked at Flormar were fired? Because they wanted to be unionists, they became unionists, and within two weeks they organized so fast that they got 51 percent representation. Flormar workers, 132 workers -- 80 percent women -- were thrown out, and these women now want their bread back, they want their jobs back. There's a very serious economic crisis in this country, an unemployment. Although those who rule this country say there is no crisis, we will now deal with the hoarders who are doing this business in order to express the cost of potatoes, eggplants. Even though it is called a crisis in this country, there is a crisis in this country. In ongoing budget talks, the word "crisis" is not mentioned once, and it is as if the word is banned. We know very well that in times of crisis, women are the ones who have been laid off in the first place. The ones who pay the worst price of the crisis -- we don't defend it -- unfortunately, it's the reality of society -- are women who have to boil their pot at home. Therefore, the government must return to the government and say, "There is a crisis in this country. There is a crisis in this country." And it must try to find a cure for the problems of workers, workers, poor people, especially women who suffer the worst cost of this crisis in this country. Otherwise, this process can no longer be carried away by the weakness of this administration.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0130par0550	Here, pick it up, Mr. Fast.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0129par0551	Thank you. My dear sisters, we are half of Turkey. Our heads may be open, we may be closed; we can be Kurds, Turks, Arabs; we can be Alevi, Sunni; we can vote for different parties; it doesn't matter, we share problems in the workplace, in the streets, in the house, in politics. In short, it's a common story for all of us. Let's all be able to flow to the places that solve our problems, to spread women's solidarity all over Turkey, to begin under the roof of this House. We think that's what suits us. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0131par0555	İstanbul MP Gibraltar Özdemir on behalf of Republican People's Party Group. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0132par0559	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on the motion by the People's Democratic Party to investigate rights violations against working women. I salute the General Assembly. Dear MPs -- summary of the proposal to investigate -- issues in women's employment, inequalitys, pay inequalitys, especially the rights of Flormar workers, who have been seeking a constitutional right over a hundred and eighty days, then they should be fired and not given their rights, and it would be an important step in the parliament today to discuss this issue and accept the proposal. During the rule of the Justice and Development Party, Turkey is unfortunately last among the 135 OECD countries in women's employment. The Justice and Development Party orator, who will likely take the stand after me, will likely talk about the rate of female employment that reached a high level during their rule. However, this ratio will not reflect the problems of working women or the social reality of women's employment. According to Economist magazine's 2017 ceiling index, according to the women's and work index, Turkey is ranked 27/7 of the 29 countries, which means we are number two from the end. Supportive practices, such as day care, maternity leave, to increase the employment of women in the public sector and especially in the private sector, have not been intended to resolve the inequality of women and women's workers and their problems at the expected level during the Justice and Development Party administration. When we looked at the Family Construction Research Report of TÜİK (TİK), the mothers take care of 86 per cent of the households; the maintenance rate is 2.3 per cent, and the maintenance rate is only 1.5 per cent. The speaker before me also expressed the proposed orator, Turkey has fallen 26 places in the last 11 years in the inequality of men and women. Dear lawmakers, when we look at unionisation and guaranteed working rates, we are the worst country in OECD, with the scope of a 7 per cent collective contract of employment. This remained at 13 per cent among male employees and only 8 per cent in women. We have all witnessed the dismissal of female workers who worked in Flormar, which was the subject of the research proposal, and then they have been fighting for a right for a hundred and eighty-six days. Most women have been terminated by 132 Flormar workers. So, dear lawmakers, we are here in the House, not only do we have the deepest impacts of the economic crisis, but we bring up the problems, the rights demands of all segments, and we want solutions. But when we look at it, the power that has ruled the country alone for 16 years, more day-to-day, ahead of its political interests, and the election period is temporary.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0133par0567	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0132par0568	Thank you, Mr. President. Naturally, he can't come up with a permanent solution. We make more effort to include women in employment, unionization, taking rights to their labor, taking advantage of day care services, and being equal in working life in society. We care about all these problems being investigated, and I share with you that we're in favor of this motion. I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0134par0573	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, İstanbul MP Canan Kalın. Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0135par0577	Mr. President, before I speak, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTI Group against the HDP group proposal. In the period of the EC PARTI administrations, studies aimed at boosting women's employment, including legal arrangements for the participation of women's employment in the labour force, half-work models, milk permits, daycare support systems, including accepted positive discrimination principle, have been supported. Again, valuable lawmakers have been the first in the history of the republic, with the children's schooling rate rising 99.6% during the EC PARTY administrations. Dear lawmakers, when we look at women's participation in the labour force today, 33.8; and 2023 goals, we aim at 41 per cent of women's participation in the labour force, and we will continue to make the necessary legal arrangements. Again, legal regulations on equal wages are one of the most important contributions made to women's participation in the labour force. Dear MPs, as you know, one of the subcommittee reports adopted at the November 14, 2018 meeting as KEFEK was about providing the woman's employment and participation in the labour force in the rural area. Studies on her output continue, and talks continue on the work and legal arrangements in this group at the point of providing her employment. Again, the newly established KEFEK subcommittee supports and studies on girls' participation in the workforce in science, technology, mathematics and engineering, especially girls. In the future, computers and professions will take 47 percent of the professions of the 21st century in the first decade. When the male-female ratio is equal, it is expected to increase 12.5 per cent of the GDP. Members of lawmakers, we prepare our young people for the future, especially with young people, especially girls, being directed, encouraged by these professions. It's not just the work we've done in the past, we're setting goals for the future, and we're trying to avoid conditioning. Because at this point, we do not see professions as men's/female professions, but as women's professions, we are working towards the future and the 21st century to increase the participation of women in the workforce.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0136par0586	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0135par0587	At this point, in front of this kind of work, we will work at the point of meeting the conditions of the 21st century by drawing the right goals, role models for our young people, especially girls. I put an end to my words and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit01spe0136par0590	I'll put the proposal to your votes. All those in favor... those who refuse... are not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0136par0001	I open the Second Session of Turkey's 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Wednesday 21/11/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under the 19th Amendment clause of the Civil Code. The meeting of the Council of Assembly of Turkey's 10/282) main parliamentary inquiry shall be held in the General Assembly's 21/11/2018 Wednesday (now) merger of the General Assembly on Wednesday (January 21/11/2018), which is part of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly's agenda for "Preparation for General Discussion and Assembly Research" for the reasons of pollution in the Menderes River. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Aydın MP Süleyman Bulbül has been recommended to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0137par0018	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Great Menderes basin is dying. Turkey's longest 8th river, the Menderes River, is dying, the fertile land is deserting, people are getting sick. Why? The Menderes River became like a river of waste. Dear friends, the Great Menderes Basin has the most productive agricultural fields in our country, but the Canine's lifeline, the Menderes River, is no longer giving life, spreading poison and death. The Great Menderes River is contaminated with natural and artificial fertilizers used in agriculture, pesticides, the release of wastewaters from businesses -- such as diesel oil -- on the side creeks, and the degenerative geothermal water from the boron content is irrigated into the river. However, the gas coming out of the central shafts is being absorbed into the soil as an acid rain. The crops that grow in the watered land of the river have now lost its quality of goods. Unfortunately, the government remains silent in this regard, declaring its support for agricultural production at every turn. The boron mineral and other heavy metals that have a negative impact on the irrigation water criteria have a toxic effect on all agricultural products, causing the landscape to break down. This is why figs, olives, cotton crops are especially damaged. This is not controlled in the Menderes basin, even though geothermal fluids must be reinjeted and monitored without threatening environmental, human and animal health in terms of sustainability and access to future generations. Deliberate lawmakers are mixing harmful materials into subterranean water sources, in terms of agricultural products, as well as infiltration according to the nature of the land. Such waters pose a potential danger to human and animal health. The first to be watered by water from the river, the garden of the narcissist in a total of 22 hectares in the vicinity of January and Nazilli is no longer able to bear fruit. Analysis shows that the amount of boron here has increased, and the quality of the products has dropped. Heavy scraps of metal, borron waters, are the last to reach the Plain of Söke. If this is not taken care of, years later, there will be no land to farm in the plains of Söke. According to data from the International World Nature Protection Foundation, water analyses in Buharkent, Nazilli, Kuyucak, İncirliova and Söke have been determined as low quality. Waters such as this amount pass on to literature, which cannot be used in the irrigation. There are also fish deaths in the Menderes River. In these mass fish deaths, there are thousands of fish graves in the river. The contamination of the land threatens two and a half million citizens in the region directly, and 80 million indirectly, through agricultural products. As a matter of fact, our citizens in the Menderes region have been severely diagnosed with cancer, according to a study of the people of the Aydın Medical Office. So we're dealing with a situation here that is killing both human health and production efficiency as well as the environment. It is clear that every living creature in the basin, individual, community, and economic unit first need clean and accessible water supplies. A system that responds to these needs and responds to the needs of today and the future must be set up immediately. This matter, dear friends, is a matter beyond parties, so it's not a matter of power or opposition. Therefore, we demand the adoption of the research motion we have submitted as CHP Group. I'm thinking about why the pollution in the Menderes basin is being investigated, why the agricultural products are being inferior, and why we need to solve these problems together. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0138par0025	Aydın Aydın Aydın Adnan Sezgin on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. Here you go. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0139par0029	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Great Menderes Basin has suffered severe environmental destruction, and are also at grave risk. Water pollution in the Great Menderes basin threatens and denies the ecological value of our two and a half million citizens living across the basin and thousands of years of yield in the basin. Mr. Nightingale, the pool is dying. He said, "It's true." The waste from the provinces of the footman, Denizli and Aydın, especially industrial waste from mining, skin and textiles, agricultural production and industrial waste, and water pollution due to domestic waste are a variety of factors that lead to the poisoning of the basin. One of the most important sources of pollution is the geothermal power plants, especially in Aydın. In addition to the lack of supervision and negligence of authorities, the investments of JES in Aydın have done serious damage to human health, environment, agricultural production, animalism and natural resources. There are very reliable indications that there has been serious damage to fertile farmland and the environment due to the unsupervised interference of waste into the soil and water supply, particularly the Menderes River. The Menderes River is thousands of years of civilization. According to the Environment Report on the Year 2016 of Aydın Province of Environment and Urbanism, the second most important reason for territorial pollution in Aydın. In a press conference I've just held, I've shared with the press my reviews and reviews of the responses to this question motion and other questions I've prepared on the matter. So much destruction and pollution of the Menderes basin and the blessing heritage of the Menderes River is actually to step away from suicide, from consciousness and the actual values. This is the subject of an attack on the history of the region, today and its future, and it is a grave problem to that extent.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0140par0034	Pack it up, Mr. Sezgin.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0139par0035	I'm ending it, Mr. President. This motion for research must be adopted by all political parties. That's why we support the motion. The problem is so severe that all kinds of parties are overstaying their welcome. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0141par0039	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, İzmir MP Hasan Kalyoncu. Here you go. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0142par0043	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, let me tell you, is there any pollution in the Menderes basin? I do. There are pollution problems in Menderes the Great, Menderes the Little, and Gediz the Gediz. But studies in 25 basins in Turkey, research projects, one of the last people working at the Great Menderes basin, I know the area like the back of my hand. Now, in studies at the Menderes Basin, as part of the Water Framework Director, all have been studied, all of its levels of pollution, including primary pollutants, heavy metals, organic pollutants and other pollutants. I'll tell you right now, there are places in Aydin in the main arm in the worst quality class. In 2016, however, the National Movement Party carried the pollution of the Grand Menderes, on parliament's agenda, but no results were achieved. We continue to follow up on this issue that we have brought from 2006 to the parliamentary agenda. At the moment, the basin management plans and other works have been made at the Great Menderes River Basin. According to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism predictions, measures related to nitrogen and phosphate pollution were taken in 2019-2020 and will be improved. Besides, there are studies conducted by the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs' Water Management General Directorate, one international project, one TÜBITAK project completed in the region. Now, the main thing to do here is to investigate whether or not these proposed measures are being run. Because now they're talking about the boron. The black water is one of the most pollutants in the region, water from olive plants, around 158 olive companies. In the region, also textile waste from Denizli, organised industrial waste from the footman, is pollutant from the Great Menderes. But it's also wrong to point out that the Great Menderes is dying, because the Lightmen know that the Twin Dam is a drinking water dam and its water is very clean. I've been around the area about six times, all the dams, dam lakes, main arm, side arms...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0141par0046	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0142par0047	.. I know all about pollution levels myself. In addition, what needs to be done is to investigate whether the measures that are taken are being carried out as a result of these studies, because not only the Great Menderes, but the pollution in Little Menderes, Gediz and other 25 other basins in Turkey must be investigated and seen where the situation is going. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0143par0051	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpegü. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0144par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, here, in fact, you don't need to know about the natural massacre in Aydın, the ecological massacre, it's very easy to get information today, and we know that the valley of Menderes in Aydın is almost killing. Nature has been destroyed, fig areas, olive groves are no longer alive, birds are leaving the area; cancer cases are the most common here in Turkey, while Turkey has an 18 per cent average in Turkey, and there are 42 per cent cancers in Aydın. Sulfurdium emissions are the largest in Turkey, measured space and air pollution, in that sense, too much. You can ask the intelligent villagers. The village village of Aydın, the village of Red Village, can tell you that in the most detail. So we have no problem knowing, but we have to make a political choice. Are we going to stand behind 3-5 capitals in the name of development, development, growth, enrichment, or are we going to defend the people of Turkey, women, peasants, workers here? This concerns the people of Turkey because many of the materials, such as figs, grapes, olives, are consumed in Turkey, and they produce cancer. As we approach these issues, I actually think we should look at them politically. I would like to greet Dear Leyla Güven, because she was co-sponsor of the Leyla Trust Democratic Society Congress, and the Democratic Society Congress was just about to fight for the rights of villagers, peoples, locals, and the people to govern themselves, such as the Red Village villagers in Aydın, to be the authority to be applied for the savings of the geothermals in Aydın. But what's going on here? Instead of listening to the village of Aydın or listening to people who want to socialize the politics of the village of Aydın, Layla Güven is being tried to be criminalized and tried to be removed from the community. The source of poverty, the source of unemployment, the source of extinction in agriculture, the total removal of agriculture, is actually not listening to society and not listening to politicians seeking the rights of society.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0145par0059	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0144par0060	Thank you. Look, the ECHR process that we're referring to here... must be released immediately in the ECHR. We see that the Selahattin Demirtaş, which is called the ECHM, is being tried to be criminalized as part of a public policy, and tried to be taken away from the people. We think that if we can remove these obstacles to the rule of public politics, then as a people, we can also ensure that society governs itself, that women and peasants in local governments take initiative. So, as I said in the beginning, there's no problem with knowledge, there's no problem with knowing, there's a problem with political choice. We, as a party with the Red Village villagers and his representatives, would like to say that we will always be here with the villagers against the geothermal. We want to say that we'll be on the side of the public against capital. We think parties should make policies like this. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0146par0065	On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Aydın MP Metin Yavuz Bey.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0147par0067	Mr. President, I have made a commitment by the Republican People's Party Group to the motion to investigate the pollution of the Great Menderes basin and determine solution proposals. I hereby salute the High Council. Honourable lawmakers, of course -- environmental precision -- we have the wealth that we have to pass on to future generations, to protect them, to protect them for future generations, to make them more dirty, to further use them, to reduce them, to make them cleaner, to purify them, to add much more positive values. These are our lands, our air, our rivers, our water supply, our forests. It is our duty to preserve these values, which are a gift from God to us, which have been given to us for our children. The Agricultural and Forestry Ministry Water Management General Directorate has prepared the Grand Menderes Basin Protection Action Plan. Here are pollutants and measures that need to be taken. Subsequently, the transformation of Basin Protection Action Plans into River Basin Management Plans in the EU Project has been determined to ensure that all water masses in the Great Menderes Basin are in good condition and that those in good condition have 1,264 measures to be maintained, and the investment cost of those measures at 2019 is around $2 billion 250m. Most of these investments are wastewater treatment facilities, solid waste and waste storage facilities. These should be done by relevant municipalities. The Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry General Directorate has conducted water quality monitoring at 104 locations in the Great Menderes Basin, where analysis results are delivered to the Water Management General Directorate, and pollution is monitored. The DSI General Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry completed planning on waste water in the Great Menderes Basin, and will proceed to the project phase. The municipal wastewater and municipal investments in solid waste storage facilities will be covered by municipalities. The Great Menderes River has been clean since 2001 as part of mass machine work to prevent extremities. A large portion of the river's problem was bed expansion and deepening. In order to prevent pollution in the Great Mendes River, DSI 21. Meetings are held at certain times of the year under the name Menderes Havza Meetings in the District Directorate, with the participation of Denizli, Uçe and Afyonkarahisar Governorates, headed by Aydın Governorate.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0148par0074	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0147par0075	As a result of the recent meeting, the decision was made to conduct joint work on the detection and investment practices of the pollutant elements of the Great Menderes River and the pollutants of the Menderes River. I'd like to ask how sensitive the municipality of my hometown is when we're so sensitive about our environment. The decontamination facility, which was built in 1994, was apparently inadequate as of today. What kind of practice has my city's city run on the treatment plant so far? My city's municipality is so concerned with environmental pollution that it has faced a total of $1,69,754 administrative fines carried out 14 times by our environmental and urban administration. Our government is doing all the necessary checks on environmental precision and continues its audits, including both OSB and JES and municipalities, causing environmental pollution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The idea of the AK PARTY group is that if everyone clears the way for environmental sensitivity, it'll be fine. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0149par0081	We demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0150par0082	Mr. President, I have a request.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0151par0083	I will submit the proposal to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda with the proposals of the Law and other tasks from the Commissions. The 1st ranked Isparta MP Recep Special and 2 members of the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the Rooms and Stock Exchange Act will resume our talks from where we left off. Commission? He's in position. In the past session, the motion was made on Article 2 of the Law Proposal 14 that was discussed. Now we're going to do the motion. There are three motions on the 2nd article, and I will process them according to the order of violation. Since the first two motions I'm going to read are of the same nature, I'm going to process them together. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 2 of Law Proposal 14 be removed from the proposal. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ali Kenanoğlu Kemal Bülbül The signatures of the other motion are: Feridun Bahshi Ayhan Erel Aylin Brave Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Ahmet Kamil Erozan Enez Kaplan Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We don't agree, Mr. President. I'm reading the reason for the first one of the same motions: Here you go. Politics is a process that covers all areas of social life. There is nothing more natural than the participation of all citizens in politics, participating in all kinds of events in politics, and running for representation. In the election process, it is also a constitutional right for those representing the professional rooms to run and exercise their right to be elected. However, it is not professionally and ethically appropriate for those in the administration to return to their duties if they are not elected. Clearly, the principle of neutrality will be damaged if they return to their institutions after the election, because representatives of these top-politicised institutions will be nominated for political preferences, and the work of a room and a professional organization will be affected in a negative way. Tekirdağ MP Enez Kaplan is the speaker on the other proposal of the same nature. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0152par0113	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and to the amendment to Article 2 of the Law Proposal for Change in Rooms and Stock Exchanges Act. I salute you all. Members of parliament, the merchants have taken an effective role in the trade. Employers are known as independent entrepreneurs who work mainly on the basis of body strength with small capital. Businesses lose more and more blood every day in competition because of their economic and structural problems. The Business and Artists' Law, tradesmen and artists and their members, to meet the professional and technical needs of employees, to facilitate their professional activities, to ensure their development and vocational education in line with the general activities of the profession, to maintain integrity and trust in each other and in their relationship with the people, to maintain professional discipline and morality, and to maintain that purpose, public institutional and artistry rooms, and the unity, which is the upper institution of these rooms, the federation and confederation and confederation. The law proposal that we have discussed has included a clause in the Law on Business and Artists' Occupational Institutions, and it has been allowed to return to its former duties within a month, following the resignation of its presidents and members of the board of directors and audits, if they can't be elected or can't be elected. According to the Supreme Election Board's decisions, tradesmen and artists are obliged to resign to run for mayors and board members of occupational institutions, MP and local governments. In this regard, Article 18 of Law 2839 of the High Election Board. Business rooms, confederations are a public institutional institution. Public institutional institutions are not just trade rooms, stock markets or trade unions, friends. Traders and artists are presidents of trade institutions, members of the board of directors and audits, who have been elected for a period of time. If the people who have resigned for parliament and local elections cannot be nominated or elected, their return should be by choice and appreciation of the members of their profession. Because they are not appointed, they are chosen. Employers and artists are not like officials who resigned from public office before the election. Officers are assigned, so they can be reassigned after the election, extradited to work. But if, for a while, the elected head or board member resigns from his post and becomes a candidate for parliament or local governments, he will have gained a political adjective, he will have lost the principle of neutrality. Therefore, the tradesmen and artists should not be reassigned by the presidents of trade institutions; but by reelection, by voting from their members, by providing the principle of neutrality. Traders and artists will become political and neutral if the heads of occupational institutions and members of the board of directors and control members run for office and local governments. It's democratic that if they want to come back after they leave their post to do politics, they come back with the choice of members of the organization they want to return to. My regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0153par0124	Now, I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 2 of the Law Proposal of the Rooms and Stock Exchange Law with the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey, which is currently in session. Tacettin Bay Alpay Antmen Free Special Mehmet Ali Çelebi Neslihan Hancıoğlu Nazır Jhangir Islam ADADDE 2 - 7/6/2005 and 562 added additional articles to the Law on Business and Artists. "EK MADDE 1- MP and local administrations who have left their post for running in general and interim elections can return to their former duties within a month, as well as the presidents of trade institutions and members of the board of directors and the board of control, as soon as they are not nominated or elected, as soon as the election results are announced by the Supreme Election Board. In the process, there is no election for the president and the president; in place of the board of directors and audit members, the replacement members are called. By the end of the time envisioned for the president and the presidents to return to their former duties, the vice president or the oldest member of the board will carry out the presidency. Commission, do you agree with the motion? SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVILS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGI COMMINATION Whether the motion is accepted or not, it will not change the content of the substance. We leave it to the General Assembly's discretion. So even if it's approved, it won't change, even if it's said yes. It'll stay the same. İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir İslam wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0154par0140	Yes, I'm going to talk today about our President's legitimate appeals to the European Court of Human Rights in 1999 and 2002. During the period, a real legal murder was committed because of the poem he read in Siirt, which became a political ban, and he went to the European Court of Human Rights in 1999. In 2002, he went to the European Court of Human Rights. The Supreme Election Board cannot be a member of the Parliament. It was a legal murder again, and he went to the European Court of Human Rights justly. Mr. President, in 1999 and 2002, we were right and supported in these applications. Now, my question is very clear -- Mr. President, I'm asking you this question because I can't ask you in writing -- is that the European Court of Human Rights has made a decision regarding Mr. Demirtaş and his friends to end their arrest. Why do you object to that? You're gonna have to convince us about this. Friends, loyalty is important, but loyalty to the truth is important. So, there have been many discussions here before; loyalty to the leader, something that can throw away the faithful when the leader is thrown away; loyalty to the leader is something that can only be applied if he is loyal to the truth, the law, and the truth. Look, I'm saying there's no loyalty to the contract here. So, if the European Court of Human Rights is in our favor, we'll accept it, or we won't. That's what we're up against, dear friends. Mr. Demirtaş and his friends must be evacuated in our opinion because the law, the Constitution, the laws are above Mr. President as well, my friends. My dear friends, after our controversial conversation, I traveled around Asia Minor; I traveled around Rize, I traveled around Ardeshen, I traveled around Artvin, I traveled around Gebze, I traveled around Kartal, and Albanianköy; people understood the matter, so they understood what I meant. In Ardeshen, we had the misfortune of canceling the hall that was held days ago, which was held by your mayor of the AK PARTI. It's very rude, political rudeness, insufferability. So we started going around the market, the tradesman, the coffeehouses, we gave our word. Within an hour, a wedding hall owner called us and we had our meeting there. I thank you, Ardeshenians, Rizeli, Artvinians, Gebzeli, Eagles and Albanians from here. The president of the State of Emergency Review Commission -- this is the kind of article in Turkey's paper newspaper -- says it's an improvement of the State of Emergency Review Commission -- says the work of this 440,000 files will be done in a year and a half. Now let's get our calculators out, and let's get the maths wrapped up in paper. I took care of my situation, 14 months and a week ago, and it's still under review. Well, if there are 42,000 files in 14 months, that means 3,000 cases per month. Divide 440 thousand for 3,000, and you'll get one hundred and forty-seven months, twelve years and three months, dear friends. Now, who do I agree with here? Should I agree with the president of this review committee, or do I qualify for math? Dear friends, look, the real problem is that the functions of the Constitutional-secured judiciary are being interfered, that's the main issue. Why? For this, because if it's a question of schools that KHK victims study, there are friends on the Council of Ministers who have graduated from these schools, I'm not saying that as an accusation. It's about schools your kids go to, social media sharing, Digiturk subscriptions, and having money in the bank. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I put you through, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0155par0150	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0154par0151	Thank you very much. So the bank's ATM in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is open, its branches are open, its branches are covered by the Constitution, and the laws, but the KHK people are being subjected to this persecution, unfortunately, because they have a few pennies here. It's more important that I don't name this bank CEO, you know his name -- he's in charge of the SPK now, isn't he, my friends? Guys, what kind of situation is this? How does this fit into the same mind? This is a big deal, isn't it? Dear friends, see, this event is logical, moral and legal. Today, the State of Emergency Review Commission operates as a parallel judgment that the administration has imposed on us. My respects, thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0156par0156	I demand a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit02spe0157par0157	Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. Those who accept the motion... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0157par0001	I open the Third Session of Turkey's 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly. The decision of İstanbul MP Nazır Jahangir Islam and his friends was not enough to vote on Article 2 of Law Proposition 14. Now, I'm going to put the motion back to your votes, and I'm going to look for the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who agree... those who don't accept...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0158par0004	No, no, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0157par0005	Since there's a difference of opinion among the clerks, I'll electronically repeat the vote and look for enough to decide. I'll give you three minutes to vote, and I'll start the vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] The motion is not accepted, there is enough to decide. We continue the talks of Law Proposal Number 14. Commission? He's in position. I submit Article 2 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. It takes effect in the history of the publication of the Law. İsmail Konçuk, Adana MP on behalf of the Good PARTY Group. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0159par0017	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. In fact, they say politics doesn't have schools in the past. Although there are now schools, schools, schools, like the faculty of political sciences, but still, politics is all about learning it in the field. Now, when we look from here, the places that actually are the source of the politician are NGOs, which means that vocational rooms, associations, unions should be seen as actually a source of politics. Now, when we look at it like this, we need to think, why did such a ban enter into the 18th Amendment of Law 2839? I've been a unionist for years, and as the union heads, it's an epiphany of us who have grown up in NGOs as rivals in politics, and we thought, "Do you want to be brought up in front of them?" In fact, this arrangement is not wrong, but it is wrong because it is an arrangement to deliver to an address. Otherwise, even the idea of representatives of a non-political NGO is not really acceptable in terms of what it really means. We should only ask the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey or the leaders of the Union of Traders and Artists of Turkey that such a right should be given to us, why? Why can't Turkish-government executives get involved in politics? Why can't Turkish-government executives get in? Why can't the DİSK executives, the DİSK executives, the MEMUR-SEN executives? Actually, I read Mr. Rifat Citadel's statement yesterday. I'm guessing Rifat Citadeloglu was also the chairman of the European Union's mixed consultation committee, and he's still going on. There are eight major organizations here, there are officers' unions outside these units, representatives of labor unions. Yesterday, Mr. Citadel said that this arrangement was not right, but if this arrangement passes through, our friends may have a question in their mind: why there is TESK, there is TOBB, there is no officers and workers' unions, and why there is no other union representatives? There may be a question in their minds, there may be a doubt. So this offer should actually be withdrawn, complete, and come to the agenda of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and it would actually be appropriate for the Parliament to eliminate a ban on entering politics. Can you imagine, some of our friends here said in their talks -- well-intentioned approaches, all of the talks here, I agree exactly -- there's a situation where you are now, for example, the head of the union or the head of the branch; you resigned, you became a candidate. You didn't get nominated or you lost. When you want to come back, you can't run, even if an extraordinary general council has a decision. Why? Because you're being demoted, your chances of getting back on that mission have been eliminated, even with an election, because you've been demoted. Thus, it would be fair and appropriate for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to remove all such bans by making necessary changes in Article 2839 of Law on all of our NGOs. Otherwise, I'm going to have this question about Rifat Citadeloglu and Mr. Bendi Palandöken, both my friends, why there are no other NGOs but only the TOBB and TESK, and I'm going to ask that question from here, on behalf of NGOs. In fact, the passing of this law may provide a situation that could put our two dear friends in a difficult position. How did it come up? If the president of the TOBB has no information, sir, if he doesn't, I haven't heard the TESK president's statement, I don't know whether or not Mr. Bendavi is against it, and if he is against it, it's hard to understand how such a law proposal is brought to the Turkish Grand National Assembly without their approval, but I repeat: even though there is a school of politics and political sciences and faculty and so on and so forth, it's very difficult to understand how we're going to find the raw material of politics, which is where we're going to find, and so on behalf of our friends and friends who are going to find the principle of politics. There are people around here who specialize in their field, they have high social skills, they're social people, they know human relationships very well, so we think they'd make good politicians. In fact, maybe we should talk about this: for years we've brought up the Memura ban on politics. We've defended it, we've defended it as Turkey's KAMU-SEN, and our other officers' unions have defended it. Now, officer, in fact, the most enlightened part of Turkey, the educated, ink-licked part of Turkey; we bring them a ban on politics, we say: "Don't think, don't speak for this country, don't speak for it. Can you imagine, with the resources of the country, we bring a ban on politics to the people we teach and raise? The point is, do we really need to bring up a ban on politics, or do we need to tell our people not to be partisans? So it's not a political ban that's supposed to be banned here. Politics is to be able to come up with ideas on behalf of your community, on behalf of the country; that's politics. Partisanism and politics are mixed up here. We must defend the ban on partisanism and partisanism. So we should have actually talked about the right to do politics with all of our officers, but, unfortunately, such prepared law offers are being prepared, coming in somewhere; I don't know where your opinions are being prepared, I don't know if they're being taken, and I don't know if they're being taken, and I don't know if I don't know if they're being insulted, but Mr. Cahit has just taken my sentence as an insult, and I would never insult my opinion, and I would never insult them, because I wouldn't insult them, and I don't insult them, and people who can't express themselves with words that mean swearing. Come, since this has come up here, let's not make a law here, as if we can prove that TOBBB and TESK are a privileged structure. Let's discuss the civil rights of the officer, but first, I'd like to say that the easier thing to do is to lift this ban on our other NGOs, our troops and unions. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0160par0027	Metin Nurullah Sazak Eskişehir MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0161par0029	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I wish God's mercy to our miners, to their families and to our nation, who died in the collapse of the Zonguldak mine. I also remember our teachers with respect and love for the approach of the 24th November Teacher's Day. Our Turkish elders say: "Be three things in life; be one of those who teach or serve. " I begin to speak with the hope that we too will be of those who serve. I am on this bench today to evaluate the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and the National Movement Party on Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Rooms and Stock Exchanges Act. First, I'd like to get to the point by reminding you of the importance of Turkey's largest trade and NGO, the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges. Turkey's Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, which is the roof of the Turkish business world, and the rooms and stock markets, were founded by Law 5590, published in the Official Gazette on March 15, 1950. With 1.5 million members in our country, it has been operating in 81 districts and 160 districts for nearly 70 years. It is known that the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey has taken over the fundamental representation mechanism in all our business world, the growth of our economy and the increased competitiveness of members, the mission on the basis of our country's founding philosophy of improving business and investment. As part of this mission, we cannot ignore the contribution of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in most of the legal arrangement that has opened the way for our private sector since its establishment. The Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey is an institution that has been able to communicate problems in different volumes and different parts of our country because of its widespread domestic connection and to share and guide support and solutions. In the solution to problems, the intermediary and close-tracking of public-private mechanisms play an important role. Turkey's contribution to development and economic progress is another important task, in co-operation with the state in reforms and regulations that the business world needs. Other than that, in the areas of education and social responsibility that he has recently weighed, investments in the future of our country have contributed substantially to the future of our country. Apart from all the tasks he has done and taken over, he is primarily representing the Turkish business world internationally. He is a spokesman for Turkish entrepreneurs, under the leadership of a full majority of global business institutions. The absolute fact that the principle of full independence, which is our main agenda in Turkey's current situation, is based on economic development and independence, is one step further in the importance, motivation and experience of such institutions and institutions. On the basis of this current amendment, which we're talking about, the freedom of selection and selection of every citizen who has been legalized for the use of democratic rights. The basis of democracy is to make it easier for every competent and appropriate citizen to be involved in the system, considering the contribution to our country. In this sense, we support the arrangement of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey and the ability to allow MPs and local governments to return to their former posts if they cannot be nominated for office in the general and interim elections with members of the union board and the members of the board of the board of directors of the room and the stocks board of directors or not to be elected. We find it convenient that the members and executives of these organizations who have just taken over the missions I mentioned should want to use their knowledge, mission, skill and savings in the political arena. We believe that this bill, which allows our citizens in this position to drop their political identities and continue to work in the interests of the country, both in the political arena and within their own institutions, if they are not elected, will continue to work for the good of the country, without losing their position, benefit, or function. Politics should be conducted in political parties and parliament as candidates, not in rooms, stock markets and troops. When candidates are unelected and return to their duties, they are expected to carry out their authority and responsibilities objectively. After being elected under the administration of the public institution, the room, the stock market and the troops, it is not possible to limit these authorities' biased approaches to their future political life to their personalities and morals and to be limited to a legal obstacle. These are all ethical and human values that bind a person. For decent people, there is no need for laws, and for immoral people, there is no point in law. We must have a purpose to raise and own good people. There is a need for patriotic people in our country's entire institutions, in parliamentary memberships, in their presidencys, who are experienced and well-equipped, who know how to do business and maintain continuity so that development and national economy can be achieved. We consider this proposal in this framework and in good faith, and we see it as the first step in the name of a whole. We also agree that other NGOs such as the Union of Turkish Dentists, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architects, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Union of Turkish Veterinary Doctors, the Association of Peacekeepers, Turkey's Association of Notarys, the Association of Turkey's Economic Rooms, the Association of Free accountants, and other NGOs under that law must be set to provide the same conditions. One of the key points to this amendment is its thesis that when the unelectable candidates of these institutions and organisations return, their political identity will be at the forefront of the institution. In theory, it may seem like a fact, but unfortunately, there's a whole other painful reality in front of us that's being manipulated by the human hermit. In Turkey, NGOs, trade unions and rooms are unfortunately founded on political orientation and policy. This political bias, which begins from maintaining income standards and job guarantees for a member citizen, the smallest unit of the institution, is a personal position for citizens in the highest administration. It is used in the interests of its own political opinion. I have today's files on hundreds of poor citizens who have been wrongfully fired by union wars within Eskişehir. I'm sure almost all of us have these kind of files. When we say who is who's union, who's close to who's foundation and so on, we see that in the functioning of these unions and vision well-defined, in its purpose, what is the result is a painful reality of Turkey. It is my wish that those who come today and from now on will be healed in time with virtue and virtue. My belief is that the articles in the proposal, which gives people in our country the right to be elected in general and local elections, will increase qualified competition in electoral areas, and it will be a win for Turkish democracy. There is only one advantage in this country, though there are many opinions. Necip must learn to put both the Turkish nation's child and the civilian community member and the president and the public official and the mayor and the MP above all else. That's what we see for our country as the National Movement Party, and that's what we base on when we evaluate the laws and laws that we stand for. May Lord Necip be the friend and helper of the Turkish nation. I salute you with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0162par0043	Şırnak MP Hüseyin does not run on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0163par0046	Honored MPs, first and foremost, I salute you all. We've been interviewing the public budget in the Plan and Budget Commission for about three weeks, but when I came to the General Assembly, unfortunately, we came across the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges and the Proposal of Law on Changes in Rooms and Stock Exchanges. You know, I'm sorry to say that there's a change in the House right now in order to open the way for one or two people to be elected as if the country had no other problems, as if they didn't have an emergency or real problems. We have much more important problems in the country right now, and we have much more important problems, and I want to make that clear first. However, when we look at the proposal of the law, it is clear that the Constitution has a law against Articles 135, 67, and 10th Amendments, the principle of equality. And I think all of our MPs know that clearly. However, to insist on it, to have to work on it for about two days, I think it's something that could really be considered a crime to the public. We claim that there is a public budget in budget talks, and unfortunately there are no people, no NGOs, not even allowed in, but rejected when we demand it. We call it the public budget, but there's no work in budget talks, no workers, just the employer. We call it the public budget, unfortunately there is no social peace, there are security policies, more tanks, more rifles, more S-400 missiles, more walls, more castles... Unfortunately, these are incompatible with the real problems of the people. Again, I'm sorry to say that despite the economic crisis that the country is in and everyone is feeling, I'm afraid we've seen it in no way given up on the luxury of the budget or the luxury of the show. We called it the economic crisis. The economic crisis has come to a point where -- so have our other deputies -- people really have to sleep hungry now, people can't bring bread to their homes. But what are we doing? Like I said, unfortunately, we're leading the public's budget to the wrong places, condemning the public to hunger and misery again. Congressmans, the people have sent all of our MPs here, 600 of their deputies, to serve the public, to solve their problems, their real problems, and they've chosen us for this, but what do we do? We're working overtime here to remove the obstacle to the selection of 1 or 2 people, but we're not interested in public hunger, public poverty, public unhappiness, disquieting. This is unacceptable. First of all, I'd like to point that out. Again, unfortunately, for many years, there has been a conflicting climate for 40 years -- and there has been no progress in the Kurdish issue. There's no effort for public peace to be made, and every day, unfortunately, funerals arrive, people lose their lives, but unfortunately, there's no progress here, here, in Congress, in the General Assembly. Again, I'd like to say something about Mr. President's statement yesterday. He said earlier, Mr. President applied to the ECHR for his victims, and he was absolutely right, there was a victim. Whatever wisdom the ECHR decisions at that time were binding, today the President can say, "We don't care, we don't accept." This is unacceptable, and if we're the state of law, it's unacceptable. The president of the country's administration has no right to say that today, so let's make it clear. Mr. Milahattin Demirtaş has been a political hostage and a prisoner for two years, and unfortunately the wrong account has returned from Baghdad, Damascus, and not from Brussels. The European Convention on Human Rights, which we are on the side of, is clearly written on Article 46 of the Convention on Human Rights, which connects Turkey. Again, the Constitution clearly states in Article 90/5, Turkey connects. But for some reason, he doesn't tie up the President. Is the President above the Constitution of these laws? It's not. If not, how can the President here today say this decision does not concern us? We consider it to be an act of total prejudice, a direction of judgment. Congressmans, as I said, there are really other problems out there, there are real problems, there are problems that need to be solved, people have economic problems. A large percentage of the people who are old enough to be teachers or pensioners expect us to be able to come up with a solution to these situations. However, we can't find time for them, but we're working on an offer of law for the head of a room that can be chosen from Izmir (Izmir) or elsewhere. Let's make it clear that we have an objection to this situation. It's unacceptable, it's against the law, it's against the principle of equality, and it's also against the Constitution, which clearly states that no individual law can be passed. You take it out today, which, again in 2010, I think it happened during your reign, and a few years later, you're going to change that law again to contradict yourself. So we're going to stop wasting time on these legal proposals that don't have people's demands, that don't have a solution to people's problems, we're going to focus on the real problems of the people, we're going to solve the real problems of the people. Like I said, I've been in Plan Budget negotiations for three weeks, for three weeks, and unfortunately, as I said, we can't see anything about the public. There's no progress in creating solutions to the public, touching their problems, solving their problems, and I'm afraid to say, as the public's almost given up hope of a lot of things, for example, yesterday, the Justice Department budget was discussed, and now the trust in the judiciary is down to 20 percent, 30 percent -- before the President made his statement -- I think it's even lower now. I mean, in a country, when you trust the law, the judgment, that country is doomed to be destroyed. He's a prisoner, yes, clear and clear, because where there's no law, there's no peace, there's no economy, there's no development. I mean, there's justice in the name of the ruling party, but unfortunately, today, as I said, there was only information in the Justice Department's budget about how many palaces of justice are being built, how many physical conditions, how many bailiffs have been taken, but there was nothing about how to build the trust of a citizen in justice. This, unfortunately, causes the public to be desperate. Before I finish my speech, as I pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the public sent us here to solve their problems, their real problems, but they sent us to solve their essential problems. So let's spend this effort and time fighting the real problems of the people, fighting the economic crisis, trying to achieve social peace. I salute all MPs.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0164par0060	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0165par0061	Yes, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0164par0062	Mr. Orator, we've got justice called the AK PARTY, but he doesn't have it. He picked on us. I want a promise.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0166par0063	I don't think that's a...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0167par0064	I said people's trust in justice is waning, isn't that right?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0168par0065	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0169par0068	Mr. President, valued lawmakers, of course, all courts in the European Court of Human Rights and civil law are open to criticism of court decisions in the world. Criticism is one of the greatest studies in the development of the law. Academically criticized, scientifically criticized, judgmentally criticized. Look, doesn't the European Court of Human Rights ever make mistakes? I'm asking. The Welfare Party, which operates entirely within legal borders in this country, has been closed and has been applied to the European Court of Human Rights, an international mechanism. Did the European Court of Human Rights consider it a violation of the freedom to organize there? No, he blocked his ears to close the Welfare Party. If you say that decision is wrong, other decisions may be wrong; no, if you say that decision is true, then I doubt your freedom. On the other hand, in Turkey, yes, there is a struggle, and that struggle is the fight against terrorism; it is the struggle to eliminate attacks that are directed at the country's sovereignty and future. We will protect our Republic, our territorial integrity, our flag, our country to the end. We defend the brotherhood of 81 million with the Kurd, with the Laz, with the Turk, with the Circikal, with the Persian and with the brothers of 81 million. For him, the fight is the fight against terrorism, and we will continue to fight the forces of evil, whether they come or not. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0170par0073	Mr. Tanal, I give you my word on your position.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0171par0076	Yes, sir. Thank you, my dear President. My dear President, you are the Deputy Speaker of the House. Up until today, the rules and regulations were that every party's president had a room in the House, and we have no objection. At the moment, however, the major chamber, where the previous prime minister was present, has been assigned to the President as President. He's the head executive. This is a Parliament. The head of executives within Parliament shouldn't be there. If there is to be an allocation, the room must be reserved as chairman of the EC PARTY. So, just like the Republican People's Party, the People's Movement Party, the People's Democratic Party, the AK PARTY's emblem is clearly and clearly written there, it needs to be written as President of the AK PARTI. It's not right to hang that sign as president. I demand that the Speaker take this matter into his own hands. My respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0172par0080	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0173par0081	Yes, Mr. President. One minute from your position.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0172par0084	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who are in parliament, is a room for our President as President and President. There's no need to feel uncomfortable about it. Turkey is a state of democratic law ruled by its understanding. Look, what's to be done in this situation? In the direction of the election, in which the people are taking his direction, it's to come back to power with the support of the nation and win the presidential election and sit in that room. That's a democratic race. I invite all groups to do politics within democratic boundaries. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0174par0087	Mr. President, please, I have a promise to make.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0175par0088	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0174par0090	Mr. President, the testimony of the vice president of the group... there is no insufferableness. Our congressman pointed out a fact. It's also possible that a party will run for President, win the presidency, but not the president of its party. Anyway, we find it extremely difficult for a party leader to become President. Does the party's leader give a group speech at a group meeting in Parliament? He'll do it. Give me a place? Let's have it at their own group. No matter how much the square meter is, it's not that. But giving the Prime Minister the room that was assigned to the Prime Minister, who had to be elected from within the House, the head of the administration earlier, is indeed contrary to the separation of forces. He's perfectly right about that. Second: Before the referendum, as soon as they were on the F block, they broke the floor, they made room for the President. Something like this wasn't right either. And the fact that it's going on, you know, you're saying it's national will, national will. Before the unreferencing referendum, the decision of the national will is certain and making room, that's all wrong. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0176par0093	Mr. President, just for the record. See, right now, our President is operating within the current constitutional boundaries, and when we look at our rule of law as a whole, wherever our President is found as President of the Republic of Turkey, his emblem is used as a presidential forum and as the President's office, and this is also part of the Constitution of the Presidential Fors. From the moment our President comes to our party as party president, he will always be welcomed and welcomed as Forsla and President if he comes to our party group. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0177par0097	Mr. President, last but not least, no one's saying anything about the President using the Fors. Here's the thing: there's a room in parliament as the president of a party, and we all know it; it's coming to a group meeting, it's speaking at a group meeting. After a constitutional amendment to which you have proposed a separation of forces, it is a conflict with yourself that the room, which was not assigned to other presidents in the legislation, which was formerly the head of the administration, which was appointed to the prime minister of parliament, is only to contradict yourself, to eat what you say against the nation, to mock the nation. In your department, as I say in your department, a room is assigned to other presidents in your own group, where they're assigned to the other presidents, where they're put forums; no one will object. You won't be harmed by that modesty, it shows your sincerity. What you're doing is invading a place you don't deserve, not keeping your promise to the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0178par0101	Our president's humility has been graciously accepted by our nation, and the outcome of every election shows it. What I'm going to say is that the answers I gave you...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0179par0106	Manisa MP Ahmet Vehbi Bakırlıoğlu on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you are, Mr. Bakırlıoğlu.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0180par0109	Before I begin, I offer my condolences to the three miners who died in the mining accident at Zonguldak. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and to the Law on Changes in the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges. Honourable lawmakers allow members of the Union and the Union board, the president and the members of the board of directors of the chamber and the stock market board, to return to their former duties if the law proposal can't be elected by the presidents and the presidents of trade institutions and the chairman of the board of directors and the board of directors. The institutions mentioned are a public institution. In accordance with Parliamentary Election Act 2839, the office of the president and executives of the institutions of the public institution shall resign from their duties in the parliamentary elections. So, just two of our organizations, the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges and the trades and artists, are they a public institution? When we look at the institution's laws, we see that the Union of Turkdis Doctors, the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals, the Union of Turkish Engineers and Architectures, the Union of Turkish Medicines, the Union of Turkey's Bar Association, is a public institution. The proposed law does not include other institutions and institutions that have the quality of a public institution. You might think, why? To understand that, all you have to do is go into any search engine and write it in the TMMOB-Erdoğan (Turkish Medical Association-Erdoğan) or the Turkish Association of Bar Association-Erdoğan. President Erdoğan, for example, called TMMOBa the "ideological chamber," and TMMOB replied, "We will continue to fight against those who turn the country into a concrete heap." Our president called the Turkish Medical Corps "terrorist lovers." He told the Turkish Medical Association and the Turkish Bar Association that they could not take law or medicine into their own hands. The list goes on and on like this. The length of the list shows why this arrangement is essentially limited to only two institutions. It's against equality to bring an offer for a single institution and add another one to it and avoid the others. It's incompatible with democracy. The Union, which is running for office in the elections, is the basis of the elections when it comes to running for office with the presidents of the stock market and members of the board if they can't be elected or if they can't be elected. The issue has nothing to do with the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission. I'm a member of the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology Commission, awaiting a proposal of 74 laws. Let's take a look at the pending proposals: The introduction of such an offer to the Industrial, Trade, Energy, Resources, Information and Technology Commission is absurdly involved while dozens of proposals are being held in the Commission, with the benefit of countries and citizens, such as the Law on the Protection of the consumer, the Candy Law, the Energy Market Law, the KOSGEB Law, the Bank Cards and the Credit Cards Act. In short, before the upcoming local elections, we are facing a private law proposal, which is delivered to the address, as stated by our valued MP from the mp. Dear lawmakers, under all legal proposals to the General Assembly since 24 June, are the signatures of lawmakers from the Justice and Development Party. We've made seven proposals legal so far. It's all under the signatures of MPs from the Justice and Development Party. Don't our lawmakers from other parties offer laws? Dear MPs, the number of legal proposals offered to the commissions in the 27th term is 1,572. Lawmakers from all parties working under parliament have offered a total of 1,572 laws. Like, what's in there? For example, Republican People's Party MPs have offered us four laws to hand over the rights of our citizens who are old in retirement. Hundreds of thousands of citizens have been robbed of their rights, and there's a victim. We've offered the law to address this sacrifice, but our offer is on the Commission. What are we discussing today? We're discussing a private text of the law. Our police, our teacher, our religious minister, thousands, tens of thousands, the Republican People's Party's 3600 additional indicators are looking forward to the agenda of the House. What are we discussing? The purchase is a law proposal. There's something else we need to discuss here, basically, where do these law proposals come from, where do these orders come from? The answer to that question is known to everyone under this roof. I'm sorry to tell you, we're today discussing laws from the palace under the roof of this Veteran Assembly. (CHP clapping in rows) Orders from the palace, proposal at lightning speed, on the commission, at the same speed on the agenda of Congress. The public's agenda is clear, the public's concerns are clear, their wishes are clear. This Congress puts them aside, doesn't care about them, closes its ears, turns its back, expects instructions from one person, yes, one person. Dear friends, what are we discussing today? What are the nation's deputies, the big people, arguing about? Falanca, president of the room and so forth, wants to be mayor of the county, so if things don't work out for him, if he can't run, he can go back to his spare room, that's exactly what we're arguing about. Whereas our pensioner, our labourer, our young man, our woman, our farmer, is in trouble. The nut maker's got his hands on the ax, he's messing up his garden, he's rioting. When the nut maker is in trouble, you say, "Let Parliament look into it." In the train crash, 25 of our citizens died, death came with the eye to the eye, there is neglect, the matter must be investigated, the matter must be investigated, so that there will be no more such disasters, you do not agree. Those who are old in retirement are bound to the House, their eyes and ears are in the House, and we say, at least let the matter be investigated, and you say, "No." Dear lawmakers, our farmer is miserable, our nut maker is rioting, the sugar beets producer is crying over his snow-dwelling crop. Two days ago, I was in my constituency in Manisa Akhisar, where the olive maker breathes through his nose. Our farmer, who had to sell his product under the cost, is bankrupt. Our olive maker can't pay his debt this year; let's say he pays his debt, he can't take care of his family; let's just say he barely made a living, and this time he can't take care of his garden. This year, our olive maker had only olive oil on his back. The price of olive oil at $17 suddenly dropped. We looked into why, and there was Afrin. We've learned that the state has brought oil from Afrin to 14 liras in order to sell abroad through the Agricultural Loan Co-operatives. From what we've learned from our Minister of Agriculture, 5,000 tons of olive oil will be brought in. When we asked him why, we received the answer to prevent the Zeitin oil from falling into the hands of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). In Afrin, we have a governor, a governor, Mehmet-chik, and Afrin is not in our control? We asked him, we did not get an answer. Last year, he faced a similar situation, which was brought oil from Tunisia for a reason that we could not understand, and the price of olive oil was lowered. In short, the olive oil we brought from Afrin also broke the last branch that our manufacturer was holding on to. The olive maker wants his debt to the banks transferred. The olive maker wants a bonus on the table olives. We've offered the law on the bonus of olives for the table. That's what our olive maker calls hope. This proposal, which concerns 320,000 families, awaits commissions; we are here discussing a private, custom offer, discussing the seats of the managers of the trades and artists' rooms, but no one talks about the tradesmen and artists. Today, our shopkeeper is crying blood. The economic crisis first hit our tradesman. Our tradesman, our craftsman, could barely afford the end of the period interest in September, and some couldn't. Big trouble, big radish, actually, in December. Debts are not paid, BUG-KUR bonuses are barely paid; bonds, checks are bounced; prices and capitals are shortened; interest is too high; our business is no longer able to use banks; hope, tradesmen's bail co-ops can't respond to demand; many members are turning around empty-handed from co-op doors, and shutters are closing one by one to avoid ever opening again. Dear lawmakers, we claim that the will of the people is represented. The new system you brought in, the one-man government, took the will from the people, gave it to one person. So today we're discussing an unfair legal proposal that's been ordered by one person in the People's Assembly, which concerns a handful of people. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0181par0125	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0180par0126	In a nutshell, we do not approve of election laws as a law against the Constitution. With these thoughts and feelings, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0181par0129	The first word for the individuals is from Albany Antmen. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0182par0132	Mr. President, this bill is a product of the workforce, our rooms, and our troops' efforts to politicalize the understanding that makes the judiciary and the media ally. This proposal is an offer to order another palace without a settlement in parliament, without consulting experts, without public information and without opinions. Because it's a proposal someone wants to make for someone special. What's the name of the bill? Turkey's Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges and Proposal of Law on Changes in the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges. But look, what does Mr. Rifat Citadeloglu, president of the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey, say? With a law proposal presented today, parliament has been asked to open its way back to its duties in case it is not elected presidents of the Union, the room, which has to leave its post, which is a member of parliament and a candidate in the local elections. He doesn't think it's right, and I believe the law proposal should be withdrawn. The distinction between the room, the stock market, our union presidency and politics has been determined by a certain line. Once this line is breached, it's a matter of day-to-day politics permeating the institutions we represent, which is the most likely to be damaged by our manufacturers, traders and industrialists who entrust us with these tasks. We must maintain the exact line between taking office in this community and taking part in politics. The production will be damaged, the industrialist will be damaged, the merchant will suffer. He says, "You don't care about the manufacturer, the industrialist or the merchant, but of course, you don't care about the warnings, if you don't have them, what the palace says, what the palace wants; you don't care about what 80 million people say; you don't care about what one person says, it's more important to you." Look, I want to give you an example. You did this in an institution that directly concerns the security of the state and the country, such as the MIT, and you made it political. In 2015, the Undersecretary of MIT resigned, running for office from the ruling party. A year later, July 15th was a treacherous coup attempt, and 250 of our citizens were killed by traitors and scoundrels. So, Mr. President, how did he know about the coup? It's from my brother-in-law. However, if it hadn't been for an MIT Undersecretary, a candidate for a political party, who was clearly a candidate for a party, who had been reassigned after resigning, instead of being a competent, objective, expert on the institution, and a deserving undersecretary, then you would have learned about the coup attempt from the undersecretary, and perhaps at the time, not from the undersecretary. We saw here the worst example of politicalization of an institution. You know, you could say: "But the officer is resigning too, he's running." There's a big difference between the union, the room, the market presidents running and an officer running for office. The officer is appointed; the room, the stock market, and the presidents of the union are elected, and he represents people from every point of view, from every group, and he receives votes from all sides; and the officer represents only himself. Congressmans, as a two-term member of the bar, I would like to say that our rooms, our troops, our trade groups, our producers, our industry, our workers, our tradespeople are very important, and very important to the citizens. Look, I thought yesterday was Children's Rights Day. We're all affected by child abuse news, we're criticizing violence on women, so, you know, the barmen are volunteering in a lot of cases where they're against child rights centers, women's rights centers, harassment, child abuse, women's violence. But if this offer goes through, lawmakers, anyone who wants to run from place to place uses it in bars, rooms, everywhere else, steps up there, the faith of those who work at that institution, the faith of those who belong to that institution shakes, and the institutions begin to divide. You've divided the citizen, divided the media, divided the veterans, divided the martyrs, differentiated, discriminated, not enough, at least for this country, not politicizing the rooms, the stock markets, the troops that work for this people. The unelected room, the union, the stock market presidents, will no longer wear professional badges on their collars after they return to their duties, will carry the badge of political parties. Please, come back from this mistake, direct rooms, stock markets, troops to serve their members, not politics. I salute you with all due respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0183par0139	Here you go, Mr. Turan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0184par0142	Mr. President, the last few speakers have accused us of an unpleasant statement, which I think is very amicable, that the law is a court order. Look, dear friends, each of our deputies here has the right to offer, sign, and withdraw his signature on his own free will. What you refer to as the order of the palace is a reflection of a political structure that our President is involved in. We are proud to speak to our president, to have a meeting, to be instructed to do so, as you do. You're blocking the law right now. Let me ask you the same question, then: Where do you get your instructions? Is that an approach? There's nothing more natural than having our president's opinion on this matter. Besides, the officer has the right to resign, not the relevant rooms. No, let it be, what's the big deal? When officers come back, do they carry their political identities, badges? They don't. The rooms may have the same right not to carry them. You shouldn't be afraid to step foot in this.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0185par0146	Round it up, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0184par0147	Mr. President, there's no need to be afraid to step forward on this, to make more democratic statements. I wish every room, everyone could make a decision about it in broader circumstances. Besides, since it's a court order, see, the law is different from the way it is in the Commission and the way it is in the General Assembly. Anyone who follows that knows. There was a narrower statement when the law came in, the presidents were only dealing with the issue, but in the Commission, our deputy friends argued, they met with all the parties, and in the process of the Commission, they gave the law a broader implementation, especially the business rooms. Instead of accusing each other of such arguments, I think it would be a result if we were to approach each other in a more understanding, contributing approach rather than using expressions that are close to insult. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0186par0150	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0187par0152	Mr. President, Mr. Group, it's perfectly appropriate that the Deputy President's confessions should be contained because we said that it would not be right for a party president to become President, that running a parliamentary system could be the head of a parliamentary system, that it's possible in the parliamentary system, and that the parliamentary system is a more democratic system. The AK PARTY said: there will be a separation of strong forces, a strong Parliament. No one will interfere with the legislature's legislative monopoly. The lines between the administration and the legislation will definitely be separate. It says now: "He is our President." We are proud to receive instructions from him. Look, since you're the head of the administration of your president, you can't say it, you said it's going to be hard to walk with Yasama. There's something about this medicine called teratogenics, the teratogenic effect. Yours, April 16th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you'll excuse me... In the early months of pregnancy, if the mother is unconsciously using false drugs, these drugs have a teratogenic effect and give birth to a monster, mother, that's Latin. The amendment you made meant the regime, gave birth to monsters. When you look at it, it's neither human nor anything else, but democratically, it's a monster. Because I'm going to separate the execution from the law. You say, "Don't take instructions -- stop taking instructions -- you almost don't get a greeting, you can't say anything to a comma, but on the one hand, your president is a man. If you look at it that way, it's true. Then what happened? The constitutional amendment collapsed, the AK PARTY's claims collapsed, the strong Parliament collapsed, the separation of forces collapsed; the right to conduct it over the legislature was revealed. That's not gonna happen. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] That's the problem. The statements are confessional. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0188par0160	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0189par0162	Mr. President, thank you for your promise. First, I would like to remind Mr. Deputy President of the Group, who said, "The system was approved by the public on April 16th, the referendum remained behind; it was not enough, it was approved again on June 24th, the elections were made, they were left behind. We're getting ready for the election on March 31st. So, we're looking ahead of our horizons. Same fights, old fights, no good to anyone. Besides, it's a law that's been changed in the Commission. As they say, one man, one court-style approach doesn't change anything, does it? All our friends worked hard, it's a law that's been changed in the Commission. The next thing I'm saying is, there's nothing more natural than a party talking to the chairman of a party to discuss it; it's not a job for us to be ashamed of; it's a job to be proud of, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0188par0167	Semra Kaplan Curly, Manisa MP...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0190par0169	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my own behalf on Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Change in the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges by the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey. I salute our Veteran Assembly and all of you. Civil society organizations are nonprofits who choose their members and employees voluntarily for political, social, cultural, legal and environmental purposes. Throughout history, our nation has been powered by the culture of unity, unity, solidarity. And today we are one of the most radical, dynamic, and civil society traditions in the world. Today, we see our NGOs working in many different areas as the cornerstone of national unity and unity. Members of parliament, NGOs are constructive, contributing, productive actors, who control the base of the base, who bring the sound of the base to join the decision-making mechanisms, provide critical attention when necessary, and have a partner in the solution if necessary. Such organizations contribute greatly to our country's education, culture, economics, social and political lives. We have very valuable rooms, troops, tradesmen and artists that give our country serious economic momentum. Producing, creating jobs, increasing exports, always trying to achieve better institutions, the energy and determination of our economy is the source of power. Dear MPs, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have always been on the side of NGOs, rooms, professions, and have always been on the side of NGOs, which are developing, raising, developing, preparing the problem as the EC PARTI governments that are moving our 2023 goals one step further and preparing for the 2053 vision. The local projects and activities of our NGOs cannot be ignored. Because the more powerful and meaningful the parts of the whole become, the more powerful and meaningful the whole thing becomes. We also see how the heads of civil society, the room, the stock market, the union, and the members of the board of directors are useful to our community. I have every confidence that our country must advance to better tomorrows, to serve in general and local governments, to have national and spiritual values, to have the same standing in politics as those who have made their efforts on civilian platforms so far. Congressmans, our concern here is to increase the benefit of the community of members of an organization who have the experience of serving society usefully, who want to compete in public service and who have dedicated themselves to it. We aim to allow our presidents and board members, who serve our nation voluntarily, to work for the interests of our nation again. I'd like to renegotiate a matter of importance that has already been made clear by the Commission. In the practice that is available today, there is no legal limit, no ban on the members of our institutions, even the speakers of parliament, to take part as political actors. It is only the president and board members who are obliged to resign if there is a membership and candidacy under the law. It's a situation where we want to avoid experience and integrity in the same place, even though its members are free here. On the other hand, when we look at it in a realistic way, we see that there are no restrictions on the membership of members of political parties. With this freedom, our organizations will continue to be very loud and democratic environments, as they have so far. In this context, we find it appropriate to update this law so that we do not lose effective, efficient, productive, hardworking and responsible actors to satisfy the needs of society. With the law proposal we're working on today, the union, the rooms and the stock markets, the tradesmen and the artists...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0191par0178	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0190par0179	...we have the opportunity to take the pre-empted values to the other side of the table and put them into action. We'll be taking advantage of the experience of both our active working and producing presidents and members, both local and under the roof of Congress. AS AK PARTY, we want to implement this law to open the way for those who want to put a brick in the name of this country's growth and remove obstacles. I wish you all the best for our country and our nation, and I salute your high council, the law that we are here to discuss with you on this occasion.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0192par0183	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0193par0186	Thank you, Mr. President. Under the activities of the Civil Society Association (CISST) in the Criminal Execution System, they have detected and reported serious violations of the child justice system during their correspondence with the girls who were staying at the Women's Closed Correctional Institution in Bakırköy and during their visits to the lawyer. The girls who remain in Copperville are kept in a separate ward. There are about 19 girls in the institution. They say half of these kids are in the cells. If their reasons for being held in a cell are based on a disciplinary action, they say they do not know that they have any procedures and that they have the right to object. They say the children's demands to go to the infirmary were not met, that Roma children were discriminated against.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0192par0189	Pack it up, Mr. Iron.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0193par0190	I'm completing it, Mr. President. Now, in order to access more broader information, surveillance efforts are being conducted in prison, but unfortunately, NGOs say that for such a right-based monitoring activity, there must be visits to the deputy. However, as HDP MPs, we too are being illegally blocked from prison visits, so I would like to point out from here that either lawmakers of other parties, go, visit or allow me to visit here. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0194par0193	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0195par0194	Give us a chance to get on the agenda.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0194par0196	Sure. Mr. President, the president has just spoken. We asked a group of your vice presidents at first, and we didn't get an answer. Now we ask you one more time because you made the same point: This Sümeyra Merve sword refers to the appointed President's counsel on August 9, 2018, with the state's money and title under it. There is no ladyship in this state. The lady is valued, respected, but the lady won't take advantage of the orphan, she won't use the counsel of the state. Ma'am, she's coming to the House, special vehicles of the president's office, private bodyguards. She's the President's wife, she should be protected. However, more expensive government vehicles are being assigned from the top Mercedes, the most expensive Mercedes to be sold in Turkey. What's this, Mr. Bulent, what's this? It happens in the United Arab Emirates, it happens in Qatar, it happens in Sudan, does it happen in democracies, ma'am? How is that possible? Did people give you that authority? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0196par0199	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0197par0200	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0196par0202	Dear friends, Mr. President, I actually like Free Bey, but I think he may be one of the most careful, sensitive members of the group. Now, to try to oppose social media, trolls, momentary decisions, information without resources, you see, the understanding that the CHP hasn't moved it for 90 years. Now there's a claim, and there's a business card like this. It says. It's not too difficult, the friend you refer to as the counselor of the lady has her own explanation, so God guide whoever does this. Wrong, not like this. He says. Isn't it a right to make an agenda here, to stall the House, to take the time of the House, Mr. President? I don't need a lot of research, from MIT, from the police, from a special place, the lady in her own account has stated that there is no such thing. Ask in private, and I'll tell you, but I don't think it's right for a party that has the most votes after us to fall into this state of power, Mr. President. We expect more serious opposition. We expect stronger allegations.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0198par0205	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0199par0206	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0198par0208	Mr. President, we've made a motion to question the matter, it hasn't been answered; we've asked the AKP Group, it hasn't been answered.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0200par0209	There's no such thing as an AK PARTY.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0198par0210	Mr. Secretary, if you're being sensitive about this, there's a party called the GOOD PARTY that doesn't exist, because your general president calls it every day the IPO! For God's sake, show your sensitivity to the AK PARTY to the good party, brother! Don't say that! (CHP and GOOD PARTY) You're talking nonsense. There is no Ce-Ha-Pe-Pe, there is no IPO! First you respect people, then you respect them.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0201par0211	Get to the point, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0198par0212	We call it the AK PARTY, we call it the AKP. And when we say "PARTI" we don't raise you to the king, and when we say "AKP" we don't do anything. One of them's an acronym, and one of them's not. First, look for the one who says "IP" (i.e., "i.e., "i.e., "i.e., " Ma'am, the statement will be made to us officially, and we have an order for a card printed by the presidency, money paid for by the state. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Now we'll see who did it... no looting, we'll see it, we'll see it. You will answer our motion.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0202par0215	We can't run this process like this.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0198par0216	Okay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0202par0219	I've just expressed my thoughts, and I said, "No friend who comes here has come by chance, no congressman has come by great effort, so here we have to respect each other." If we don't respect each other, I'm acting on the idea that Turkey doesn't respect this place. You told me about your service, and you told me, and so did Mr. Special. I'm asking you to drop it and move on. [[A round of applause from MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Now, we're going to do a ten-minute QA on matter. Five minutes of this time is a question, five minutes is an answer. Mr. Gunpowder...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0203par0227	Mr. President, in the first nine months of this year, according to the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council Report, at least 228 workers working during retirement age died in job killings. Of every five workers who lost their lives in the work killings, one is a citizen of 50 years and more. The government insists on rejecting the demand for solutions for thousands of citizens who live in retirement, while workers who are forced to work in the age of retirement almost die every day in business killings. Don't you find it hard to believe that our citizens, who have fulfilled the premiums and days required for retirement, have died painfully in their hard work conditions? Is it right to be insensitive to the rights taken from our citizens? I invite those who promise a solution in the election to keep their word. WHEN will you fulfill your responsibility to relieve the victims? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0202par0229	Mr. Aydoğan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0204par0230	Thank you, Mr. President. Thousands of our citizens live in Esenyurt district of İstanbul. Citizens who wanted to buy houses from large-scale projects of eight different construction companies have often invested money in these companies from models. Citizens who give their savings to construction companies in hopes of buying a house can't buy their apartments. They were victimized under the knowledge and even a guarantee of the local government. Our citizens came to the House and knocked on our door. There's been a great loss. I urge you to carry out your duties. I also speak to the President who has issued a decree on everything: The fastest way to prevent the victims is to remove the victims of our citizens through the Public Housing Administration channel with a decree to be issued. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0205par0233	Mr. Özer...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0206par0234	Thank you, Mr. President. Recently, the Trade Minister has made statements regarding the new state law. He talked about the project, which will be run by a professional company with a do-and-do model. He said we'll see positive reflections in compliance. He said he worked with all the partners. Now I want to ask you, who are these commoners? What professional company is considered for the do-and-do model? What is the meaning of positive reflections in harmony? Because as long as the mazotin is not removed from the farmer's back by the giant humpback of other entries that affect the increase of fertilizer, medicine, and cost, you can't prevent food inflation. You can't take the right step without sharing the draft of the new state law with the manufacturer and the state brokers. You're on the fast track to finish farming.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0207par0237	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0208par0238	Thank you, Mr. President. We're trying to make sure you don't get politics everywhere, like this law. There's politics involved in the trial, the consequences, the 15th of July. Ekrem Ertuğrul, Supreme Court 9. The Criminal Office was made President, led by a unanimous approval of the sledgehammer plot, and then Turkey lived on July 15th, and was arrested on July 15th. Now, Supreme Court 9. The apartment evacuated him. This is how the fight continues. The challenge is so strong that my question is, when will the Justice Department reassign this person as a judge? Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0209par0241	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0210par0242	Thank you, my dear President. Sir, of course our Vice President of the Commission is sitting. Now he's a Düzle MP. You say to the President of the Chambers and Stock Exchanges, the President of the Traders and Artists: "Let's make them mayors. This is democratic. Is the president of the Düzce Bar running for office? He can't, he can't come back. Why don't you do that? Can the president of the Dread Medical Room do it? He can't do it. Can the President of the Notary Association do it? He can't do it. Will you not fear God? Is democratic expansion only for two institutions? There are 19 institutions there. Why don't you take that into account? Does this not violate the principle of equality in the 10th article of the Constitution? Isn't that a personal law? What happens? The law has to be objective, general, continuous, everyone. So you're going to deprive it of the Notary Corps, deny the Bars, deny the Medical Corps, deprive the architects of the Engineers.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0209par0244	Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0211par0245	Mr. President, I wish God's mercy to my fellow workers who died in the mines at Zonguldak, and to the wounded, and to the sick, and to the sick. Let's not forget that since 2002, the AKP's privatisation, post-contractory work health, work safety measures were not taken, so we lost nearly 25,000 workers from business murders. That's enough! From Soma, and from Ermenek, and from Toruns, and from Siirt Shirvan. Let the deaf hear, and let the blind see. If the International Labour Organization (ILO) criteria are not implemented, we will continue to lose workers in the work killings in the coming days. Let it not be forgotten that we are the first in Europe and the third in the world in business killings.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0209par0247	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0212par0248	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have recently stopped the purchase of the Pancar in Kahramanmarash Afşin Elbistan, where production has stopped. In the rebellion, the farmer could not deliver it to the factory. There are reports that do not reflect the truth. The beet delivery begins in September and runs until January, and the purchase continues on schedule according to the operating capacity of the factories. In this sense, there is no delay in the beet delivery. Our heroic farmers also deliver their beets according to this procedure. There is no harm if our farmer's beets aren't taken or lost or victimized in different ways. In addition to the farmers who deliver their crops to the factory with a dating system, the shipping price is paid. In order for our farmers not to experience any negativity, the following and control are being made. Negative perception should not be respected in the news.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0209par0250	Mr. Blackstone...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0213par0251	Mr. President, there are cattle thefts on the coast of Chile. Our animal-related Chilean citizen is a victim. I'm calling from here, and we'd like to ask that law enforcement and gendarme forces be present in Chile with our citizen, who is involved in livestock and farming and is a victim.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0209par0252	Mr. Commission... Thank you, Mr. President. We've taken the questions of our esteemed MPs, no doubt recorded our notes. The majority of them will be passed on by us to the authorities. Of course there's a question about the job murders. Our first quoted friend expressed his thoughts about business accidents, pensions, and expressed serious shortcomings about it. We'll be sure to give them to the authorities in writing, to translate their feelings. Mr. Aydoğan spoke of a victim of a domesticity in Esen district. Of course, it's completely out of our range, so I have to say, we're going to pass it on to the concerned. Mr. Autonomous was again critical of the do-and-work model, and will go to the relevant institution. There is a question of politics everywhere. This is one of the things Mr Çelebi said. They expressed it as one of them. Mr. Tanal said the part about this policy in a similar way, but I'll try to provide an answer by adding a few sentences to the question, if you'll allow me to be involved with other NGO members -- their presidents. Of course, Mr. Tanal is an identical CHP MP friend of ours, our friend. I'd like to thank your sensitivity first. My science gives me pleasure that Düzce Province is on the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, so I'll start there. But, of course, why isn't that the same opinion of other NGO executives being brought up here? I can tell you this: If there had been such an agreement before, if only it had been yesterday, it could have happened at the time of Mr. Recep's proposal; perhaps we wouldn't have been talking about it in terms of groups' agreements by now. The solution could be produced, but we've seen that it's obviously not possible. But, of course...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0214par0262	Wasn't it mentioned in the commission, in the Commission?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0215par0263	And so did our group presidents. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERJI, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION, AND TEKNOLOGY THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMINATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMMUNITY (STURENTLY) It was possible to reach that agreement on the commission.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0214par0265	Why? Where he didn't exist, at this point -- the Association of Peace Rooms and Stock Exchanges -- which covers 365 rooms and stock markets, covers 3.180 vocational rooms, trade rooms, so that by giving up a little bit of what we couldn't get, we couldn't put these masses, the biggest civil society organizations, where they had to put their executives, and put them aside from this law, where they didn't have a political position, where they didn't have a political candidate, and they didn't have a political candidate, and they didn't have a political candidate. Is that not contrary to the principle of equality? I'd like to say again in my speech on the stand this evening, that, now, Speakers of Congress, each of these professional rooms has a parliamentary chair. There's no such thing as the resignation of the Speakers, so they can run, whether they're elected or not, but they're running for office, so why are we disinheriting the chairman of the board? Why do you have to resign to the chairman of the board, or you can't go back? Isn't that unfair? Oh, I find this expansion to be incomplete, it can be expanded, but where we come from, where there are no offers for this in the Commission, where we are now, if we see the next elections, other elections -- God grants everyone a long life -- why not give it to the largest NGOs, the chamber presidents of their organization, and the board members of the board? Besides, you know, these board members, their presidents, they're also members of the council, they came there with an election. Believe me, they've come more difficult ways to get elected than being a congressman. So, he's come all this way, and he wants to be involved in politics that happened to the NGO at this point. Here, brother, be a politician, come, run; if not, come, and continue your present work. He got there by choice, so it's not like he's anywhere more extreme. Why should we stop him from going back to where he was going, to the address point where he was moving? I'll take that as a flaw, and I agree with you right now, as I put it on the stand tonight. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL LOCATIONS, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMMISSION
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0216par0270	Pack it up, Mr. Cakir. So I think it's a delayed right to be extended, it's an extension, it's an extension, it's an extension. If this agreement is met, I'm not one of those who see any blame for taking it again. Thank you. Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0217par0276	Mr. President, we've been following the Commission very closely, and we all know the dialogue that develops between parties on this matter, but on the one hand, the members of the group will admit that their relationship with the executive chair is at the level of instruction, and the members of the Commission have no idea what's being discussed. We said: "This is the kind of work that you do -- there are 19 occupational organizations according to the constitution -- there are 19 public institutional organisations -- let everyone be given this right if that's the way it's passed through the Commission, the AK PARTY Group said: "If all parties are making alliances in this, we can go through this. We can go through this. But if the AK PARTY is too willing to do that, it's only a minute's work, what have you been up to since yesterday? The commission withdraws the text to the Commission. Sir, maybe what I said would help, you know, when you called. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Sir, if you don't mind, I couldn't finish, he wouldn't listen to the commissioner.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0218par0280	Here, pick it up, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0217par0281	Now, you asked, and at least listen. The House Council will allow -- we've been working on this since -- at this time yesterday, earlier today, at this time, as a Commission, you would withdraw the text, you would go back to the Commission, you would sit in the Commission today, you would do what you wanted; you would do what you wanted; you would give support, you wouldn't give it; you have a majority, you would bring it into the Commission's agenda; you would bring it into the parliament. Now, you're going to do a job for both the name and the address, and then let's expand it if you want, but five of you have to agree between you. That's not what it's like to be in power, to be in power, to look for compromise in the commission. Did you even ask those 19 occupational organizations before the commission? What does the Turkish Medical Association say? What does the Notary League say? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] When was the last time you knocked on the door of the Turkish Pharmaceutical Union? Look at these, that's how you look at a consensus. What you're doing is you're running to the rabbit, you're taking it to the greyhound, and you're trying to pass it on to some address, nothing more. There's no defense. Your commissioner and all of your group of vice presidents have witnessed the effort, so don't turn around and accuse CHP. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0219par0287	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to express my opinion. Basically, it's been pretty clear for two days who wants what they want. The speakers are repeating the same thing, it's a waste of time, so I'm listening, five times I'm listening, we're going around with a perspective that tells us exactly the same thing. This is a waste of time. It's clear what everyone's saying. I don't find it helpful to extend the small polemics in that way to draw the council's agenda to different points.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0220par0289	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0219par0290	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0220par0293	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, the establishment of the Grand Assembly has remained unspoken in this dome so far, but as a necessity of legislature activity and control activity, all lawmakers have the right and the right to make all kinds of statements, powers and duties, which we respect. However, I would especially like to rephrase that the debates over our President are of no use to anyone, and that our country represents the unity of our state in this country as our President-elect, and that our party is the President-General. Our president's office in the House is being put on a polemic issue. See, the issue of polymics is expressed in 87 places in the House of Parliament, the president, the presidency. So it means that the President has duties in parliament, within the scope of his duties in the Civil Code and in the Constitution, and if he has a duty, then a room can also be involved here.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0221par0297	We've been over that, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0222par0298	Pack it up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0220par0299	Lawmakers will conduct the establishment, our party and all parties will do it in their own parliaments, in decision-making mechanisms, but there will be no elected President of the country within this consultation. Is there an acceptable side to this? Of course, both our president and our party officials and our group presidents and our MPs are on the side of our consultations, and we will continue to consult with our nation, taking the opinion of 81 million and bringing these work to Parliament as lawmakers within the new system. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0223par0301	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0224par0302	Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0223par0304	Mr. President, I'll give you a good-for-nothing. We haven't really adapted to the new system yet. That's why we find it difficult to explain to Mr. President where to remember: because we, Mr. President, in what capacity as President, which word, in the name of Commander-in-Chief, which word, in the name of President of the Wealth Fund, because we can't express what word as President of the EC PARTI, sometimes we say it as if we speak to the president of the EC PARTI as the president. The voice comes from our president. Sometimes we tell our president that he's talking about the AK PARTY group. He's trying. Sometimes we say, "We're sensitive about it." We say, "Talk to the commander-in-chief." We hear systems like that. So since he's been able to form sentences to carry different responsibilities in one day, I think our request from the President is this: I'm talking about this as the president of the AK PARTI. I'm talking about this as the President. I'm talking about this as Commander-in-Chief. I'm talking about this as the President of the Entity Fund, so that we know what sentence we're making.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0225par0306	There's no such thing as bullshit. There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0226par0307	No, he can go to everyone, and then I'm the president. I mean, that's not gonna happen. Go to the group meeting, then don't talk to the president.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0223par0308	So the reason why he's confused about this is that the system isn't sitting down yet. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] I'm ending it, Mr. President. So, Mr. Cahit, we're just expressing our sensitivity in this matter. The ruling group has the ability to make the law they want with an advance from the National Party for Action. You had the opportunity to carry the text of understanding that came to us yesterday, even though we said we didn't find the general framework of the law right, and if you had, we would have given it to you. So let me frame our sensitivity like this: we're not interested in who it comes from, we're interested in what it comes from. We've got a website from the National Movement Party Group, and I'll make a correction of information: Sir, we also have to give research proposals for the issues we've been offering the law. Because the process is clear because the process is getting very long; you know, 45 days, it has to go by, and then five groups have to repeat it separately, and a congressman can only give it once. We also offer research proposals so that the awareness of the public in this netative process will occur in a fashion-like way. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So in fact, we're behind everything we've put together as research proposals with our proposals for the law. If only you could show the sensitivity you showed when you were coming here, or if you could pay attention to our proposals, as well as the process of negotiation, we can get the result fast. I'll buy it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0227par0315	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0228par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0227par0317	I promised a friend. Yes, Mr. Ayhan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0229par0320	Mr. President, thank you. I would like to remind our friends who do not know the name of the good party the first amendment of our charter. THE special sign of the good PARTY is the sun over the blue sky. GOOD PARTY is called GOOD PARTY, which has no other name. 5 million of our citizens in Turkey have agreed to the GOOD PARTY by risking their jobs, their vaccines, their freedom, and they have voted for the GOOD PARTY. Under the leadership of Mr. Coral Akşener, the head of the Good PARTI, all of the well-being organizations have been seated at the heart of the Turkish nation. THE names of 5 million Turkish citizens, above all, are being disrespected by those who express the name of the good PARTY in a different way. THE short and long name of the good PARTY is GOOD PARTY, and I especially ask all political parties to pronounce it in this way and not to disrespect our five million citizens who voted for us.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0230par0323	Mr. President, of course, we've been expressing the issues that the Congressman has expressed for years. And here today, in our EC PARTY's study of the agenda, the name of the party is expressed, as stated in the Constitution and the law.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0231par0324	Why did the President say that? It says IP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0230par0325	Look, I think that all lawmakers who have been representatives of the nation here, the members of the group, will be able to know for what reason, for what purpose, for what purpose, for what purpose, our President is speaking on a matter. Including Mr. Secalioglu. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0232par0330	There are three motions on the third article. I'm going to process the motions in order of infraction. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 3 of the Law Proposal No. 14 be removed from the proposal. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Ali Kenanoğlu Kemal Bülbül Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0233par0340	Mr. President, please report to the report and let it be heard. He's always been reminded of it before, but maybe he didn't appear as a speaker at a hearing like that. It's in the commission's discretion if the commission participates in anything. In order to make a final ruling, the Parliamentary rules require that the commission gather and make a majority of decisions, but it is possible that the speakers or the commissioner will be able to give an opinion on the motions. In accordance with the established practices and courtesy of the assembly, we do not agree, not because there is no pure majority in respect of this Parliament. We do not agree, we do not agree. The statement is more appropriate. That's how it's been used so far, we warn them.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0232par0341	No one wants to talk about the motion. Politics is a process that covers all areas of social life. There is nothing more natural than the participation of all citizens in politics, participating in all kinds of events in politics, and running for representation. In the election process, it is also a constitutional right for people representing professional rooms to run and exercise their right to be elected, but it is not professional and ethically appropriate for them to return to their duties if they are not elected. Since representatives of these top-politicised institutions will announce their political preferences after they are nominated, it is clear that if they return to their institutions after the elections, the principle of neutrality will be undermined, and the work of a room and a professional organization will be negatively affected. Now I submit the motion to your votes: those who agree... those who refuse... There's been a disagreement between the clerks, and we're going to vote with an electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Motion denied. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges (2/1287) and the Council of Ministers of Turkey, shall submit and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law Against the Code of Rooms and Stock Exchanges to be changed in the following way. 1 0 days after the release of this Law. Aylin Brave Mehmet Metanet Çulhaoğlu Behic Çelik Feridun Bahshi Ahmet Kamil Erozan Ayhan Erel Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Mersin MP Behic Çelik wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0234par0363	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since we have submitted a motion to change this proposal, I would like to appeal to you in accordance with this motion. I salute your high council. Here, Mr. Bulent Turan, deputy leader of the group of the EC PARTY, emphasised democracy. Democracy is the final destination of this proposal for the law. I'd like to express the local democracy here, as well as the election of the Mahalo administrations, so I'd like to finish my promise in this context. Now, you know, it's an offer that allows TESK and TOBB executives to be re-elected if they can't be elected. All the speakers pointed to this, and they said, "Let's spread this out." But to do that, we needed an infrastructure, so there's not a single piece of work on it. So all of a sudden, it's sterile, palliative, and it's just a text of an offer addressed to one person or group, and it's being downloaded to the General Assembly. Now, here, I think the ruling party has issues in terms of law-making techniques. As the ruling party prepares the proposals for the law, it must prepare it with predictions of how to meet the needs of society in the near, middle and long term, given a number of issues such as causal relations, abstractity, and generality. There's no such thing. The Constitution contains the 67th article, and what does the 67th article reveal to us? If you make legal arrangements for the elections, the election will be held after a year, and this law will be valid in its final joke. Now, when we add these down below, it's obvious that there's already been some preparation here for the March 31st, 2019 municipal elections. So, what I'm saying is, from this bench, I'm saying, let's make a change in the Congressman's Choice Act, the Political Parties Act, there are a lot of provisions that conflict with democracy. The same law on the basic provisions of Election 298 and the electoral log. The Law on President Selection Act No. 6271, Mahalli Administrations 2972, and the Law on Neighborhood Conventions and Old People's Committees -- all may have changes that will be used collectively, well, technically permanently and will benefit the community and make sense of our political lives. No one thinks about it, and unfortunately, there's such a bad law. Now, speaking of democracy and municipalism, we've actually found that democracy culture has taken a significant turn at a slow pace, but in the last 16 years, Turkey's major dilemmas with democracy have emerged. We need to get through this together. If we want to do this country a favor, we have to do it. The current constitutional system is already called a system from the beginning to the end, I mean a regime, but it's not even a regime, it's one man's regime. For him, we can make these changes together and take some measures that will allow Turkish municipalism to sit on more solid foundations. As I end my words by saying this, I salute your grand delegation once again with my deepest respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0235par0372	Now, I submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0236par0373	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0235par0374	Those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges and the Union of Turkey, which meets in 14 rows, and we offer and propose the amendment of Article 3 of the Law Proposal for Rooms and Stock Exchanges to be changed in the following way. Mehmet Ali Çelebi Tacettin Bayır Alpay Antmen Mehmet Güymansur Özgür Special Neslihan Hancıoğlu The first local administrations to be held after the release of these provisions will take effect after the elections. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. Hatay MP Mehmet Güzelmansur wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Nicemansur.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0237par0388	Mr. President, my dear congresswoman friends, I have taken our pledge to the Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges and to change the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges on Article 3 of the Law Proposal. I salute you and all our citizens. My fellow lawmakers, our country is in a deep economic crisis, there's no way we can ignore it, avoid it, cover it. A new one is added to companies that announce concordato every day. Even public banks record shortfalls. The one that went down in the construction industry. The number of buildings that are licensed has been reduced by more than 40 per cent. The housing sales are dropping. The white meat business is going bankrupt, no one cares. Half the manufacturers are expected to close by the end of the year. The unemployment army is expanding day by day. The paper section of the century-old daily shuts down, a half-century news agency ending its life. Because of the electricity debt, the mosques' electricity is going out. The number of operational bankruptcy files in the executive offices is approaching 20 million. In the first half of the year 2018, the amount of documents protested rose by 16 per cent to $7 billion. In October, the number of unrequited checks increased by 103 per cent compared to last year to 94,400 per cent, while the amount rose by 161 per cent to 4.6 billion. The state cannot pay the exporter's VATs, saying there is no money. The pensioner, who is paid minimum wage, cannot live. I can't feed my child. He cries out. My fellow lawmakers, Turkey is facing a hunger problem. Inflation has taken its toll. The employee's income has melted. The citizen goes home empty-handed. Mothers can't find food to boil in their pot. Kids go to bed hungry. My fellow congressmen, I'm afraid our country is in this position. My constituency, Hatay, is even more difficult. Hatay is Turkey's fourth most unhappy province. The 2011 Syrian crisis's highest price is the province, Hatay. Before the 2011 Syrian crisis, Turkey had its second largest truck fleet, while international transportation reached its end with border crossings closed. The number of students per school is above the average in Turkey. The number of convicted has increased by 242 per cent. We're hosting over 500,000 Syrian guests. Hatay became the province of the most intense loss of work after the Syrian incident. You have seen Hatay as a border province, and you have forgotten Hatay. You're even discriminated against incentivization. Because of your other attitude, investors are fleeing Hatay. There are serious declines in agricultural exports. You're ignoring the narcissist, the olive, the cotton producer, the farmer's screams. We can't even benefit from rural development programs. You're ignoring them. In Hatay, there are signs of humanitarian aid, but you don't say, "Let's look into these associations." Reyhan's Dam turned into a snake story. You don't solve the problem of watering agricultural fields. In our non-medical counties, patients can't take advantage of the state's resources, people die because they can't make it to the hospital. We're in the prime of health, you say. We don't want the Anguss in Alexander. We say, "You boast of the freighter carrying the Anguses." Citizen's hungry, can't get along. We say, "Give the same to the poor." You say, "Eat less meat." Let's talk about the problems of the country. You're playing with the country's founding balances to change the agenda. You see Hatay as a place where refugees enter and exit every day, used as a military transit route. Let me tell you about Hatay: Hatay is the city where the name of Moses the Lord has carried out in the mountains, and the ten commandments he has received from God are unconditional, and he has met the Lord Hizir and Moses.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0238par0409	Let's wrap this up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0237par0410	Mr. President, excuse me for a moment, please. Hatay is the city where the first mosque was built in Anatolia, and the Bayezid-i Bistami His Holiness, who called for faith in one god, was martyred. Hatay, the world's first cave church, St. The Church of Pierre is a place where the knights of the Crusade built invincible fortresses to conquer the holy lands. For our country and Hatay to emerge from this strait, the economic crisis, first and immediately; one, the economy of production should be preferred instead of the Rant economy; two, instead of regional incentives, sectoral incentives should be given; three, the Credit Guarantee Fund must be reactivated immediately; four, the Portal Border Gate, which is the gateway to the Middle East to increase exports, must be opened immediately. I give you my regards and wish you to meet the days when there is serious and justice under the rule of the country, when it is made to consume and produce.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0239par0414	Thank you. I now submit the motion to your votes:
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0240par0416	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0241par0417	It's okay, we're voting, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0239par0418	You ask for a sufficient number of decisions after the vote, Congressman. Go see Yavuz Bey.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0241par0419	We've passed, Mr. President, the process has begun.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0239par0420	I now submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0421	No, sir, it's enough to make a decision.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0241par0422	The decision was not required, Mr. Ozgur.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0423	Every congressman has a right to a decision, as long as it's enough.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0243par0424	No. After we started, when we started...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0425	Is it in progress?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0243par0426	The process has begun.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0427	No, no. They're counting. Requested, sir. But it's because he was asked before he raised his hand, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0244par0429	No, the procedure has begun.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0430	No, call him, sir, just so we're clear. Or there'll be a dispute about a controversial thing, and now, according to the Civil Code, there'll be a lot of arguments...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0244par0431	You want matter, you want substance. It's requested after the procedure has begun. Look, it's not in order.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0242par0432	No way. Well, there's gonna be a lot of procedural debate going on right now, a lot of long work. Civil Code 19...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0244par0433	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0245par0434	There's been a disagreement between the clerks, so we'll vote with the electronic device. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Motion denied. The third article...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0246par0439	I want a sufficient number of decisions, sir, in Article 3.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0245par0440	I'll vote and decide, dear friends, and I'll call the number. All those in favor, all those in denial.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0246par0442	No, it's already counted, it's 127.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit03spe0245par0443	There's a disagreement between the clerks, we'll vote electronically. I'll give you three minutes. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0245par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision of Article 3 of Law Proposal No. 14 was not enough in the vote. Now, I'm going to put the item back into your votes using electronics, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. I'll give you three minutes to vote. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Matter accepted, there's enough to decide. We continue the talks of Law Proposal Number 14. Commission? He's in position. MADDE 4- The President governs these laws. The first word for the groups on Article 4 belongs to Antalya MP Feridun Bahshi, on behalf of the PARTI Group. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0247par0014	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge from the Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges on Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in Rooms and Stock Exchanges Act. I salute you all. Dear friends, with this proposal, the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey Act 5174 has been ordered to resume their return in the absence of MPs or presidents, presidents and board members who are running in general and inter-election elections of local governments, adding additional articles to the Law of Trade and Artists No. 5362. Friends, such an arrangement will pave the way for politicalisation of these institutions, which should be completely neutral. In his statement, Mr. Citadelicoglu suggested that daily politics would be influenced by the institutions represented in the event of the amendment's legalisation, and that the largest producer, trader and industrialist would be harmed, and that the law would be withdrawn. In addition, the 7th amendments to the Laws of Elections shall not be implemented in the elections in a year's time when it is in effect. The laws referred to here are not just election laws, but all laws that interfere with the election are part of the Constitution. The amendments to these existing laws also interfere with election laws and remain under ban. Therefore, even if changes are made, changes in elections within a year will not be implemented from the date of execution. Therefore, they will not be able to apply for local elections on 31 March 2019, and they will not be able to return to their duties unless they can be elected president, president or board members. You've been infecting every institution for 16 years, and you want to infect rooms and trades. People must be sick and tired of the law of delivering to addresses. Dear lawmakers, in 16 years of AK PARTY rule, our nation has suffered a major social collapse. During this period of power, the number of divorced, suicidal, depressed, drug abuse and criminals has increased exponentially. The stress caused by the shortage of income, unemployment, poor working conditions, and the challenges of everyday life is one of the main causes of deepening social collapse. Our citizens are overwhelmed by the political, social and cultural pressures. The constant tension has shaken people's trust in each other, institutions, and government. The manipulative and materialistic mentality spread by the EC PARTY has corroded the moral and political values of society. The most important sources of social collapse are poverty, exclusion, and lack of security. The EC PARTY has upset the education system, deepened the unemployment problem and corrupted the social security system. Poor citizens are condemned to the mercy of philanthropists and political aid in the pursuit of vote hunting. We have local elections ahead of us. We will often see the examples of what I'm saying together during this election period. Dear lawmakers, the development of a society is proportional to the value it gives to pensioners and senior citizens. One of the most important things about being a social government is to protect these people and make arrangements to make their lives easier. However, the principle law must be passed at once. This is at the top of our social and political responsibilities. And by the way, we're going to bring up the age-appropriate problem here once again. This problem must be resolved immediately with this bleeding wound. We'll never give up on the age-old pensioners. In the June 24th elections, we will speak from these seats at every opportunity to say yes to the amendment to the age-old pensioners that you made and failed to keep that promise. Our teachers -- in terms of economic and social status, the value of our teachers, who should be at the top of our society -- unfortunately, with your practices, are being reduced every day. Our teachers are facing economic difficulties, no appointment, safety problems in schools. During this period, they are even under the poverty line, almost half the poverty limit, with wages. According to data released in July 2018, the hunger limit of four families is 1,738 and the poverty limit is $5,662. A person's monthly income is around $2,136. The average salary of a 20-year-old teacher today is $3,750. And then there's our contract teachers, whose situation is pathetic. What does it mean to have a teacher under contract? Why are our teachers working as slaves under the pressure to be contractual when there are so many teacher deficits? Is that what we value to our future generations of architects and educators? Every party about 3600 additional indicators has promised elections in the general elections, but there's still no hits, so what are you waiting for? What is your reason for not being able to work out these victims when all sorts of follow-up contractors are withdrawing, and there's a 26 per cent increase in salary of 60 thousand dollars? Why do you ignore the problems of public employees, especially our teachers? Let's give our public employees 3600 additional indicators and at least make the lives of those we can't live as a human being when we retire. Dear lawmakers, members of the first party have repeatedly stated that our health care system has reached a very good point, but our health care system continues to have problems stemming from misdeeds. Health costs have been unusually high lately. Performance premium application is one of the biggest problems of the health system. The practice of performance premiums in the public sector has undermined medical ethics and has become a mechanism that operates against patients. The full-time law, no matter how much it's tried to stretch, is a law that prevents a doctor's resources from being used efficiently. This law contradicts reason and logic, Turkey's conditions. Also, in July 2018, about 70,000 nurses who graduated from the nursing department of universities and entered KPSS have not been appointed and are still waiting for the appointment. Government officials, I ask you, when will you listen to the voice of thousands of medics awaiting this appointment? Dear lawmakers have been unemployed in our country, and 16 years of AK PARTI government has increased unemployment in 7 per cent to 19.5 per cent. One of the three young ones is unemployed. As they did not invest in employment providers, the government, which employs jobs, has turned all businesses, especially sugar factories, into allies under the name of specialization. The country is badly ruled. The crisis strikes every part of society, except for the allies. Honourable MPs are remembered only on special days in Turkey, such as the disabled World's Handicapped Day on December 3rd. The problems of the disabled are being raised these days, but the solution is always postponed. The employment of disabled individuals in our country is at 4% of public institutions and institutions in places that employ 50 per cent and more workers according to the Employment Act. However, about 5 million disabled people could only be employed with a disability of around 110,000. The failure to meet the state's needs of disabled individuals, such as transportation, health care support, causes employers to resist employment. Dear lawmakers, since the first day the House opened, we've been talking about our people's problems, the law proposals, the research proposals, and the question motions, one by one, from these platforms. The pensioners, 3600 additional indicators, initiatives, staff problems, long-term military years are considered insured, pre-insurance birth and pregnancy periods are considered insured, and so far, no concrete steps have been taken in our proposals to resolve one type of military and paid military problems. Let's bring these proposals to the General Assembly and deal with the millions of people who are looking for a solution to these problems. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0248par0029	İzzet Ulvi Yölter, İstanbul MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0249par0031	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Today, we are meeting with the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges in Turkey to propose the Law on Changes in the Code of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. I have made a pledge on the 4th Amendment of this law proposal. Of course, by Law 5174, we add a temporary clause to Law 5362. We'll also remove some obstacles to the democratic participation and representations of valued figures serving in public professions. These are satisfactory. We've expressed our opinion as a party in the commission. We shared our positive approach to the proposal of the law and the other members of our commission. In fact, with the removal of a major democratic problem, we see that public occupational institutions have been further strengthened by using their constitutional powers. My dear friends, we extend our hands and extend our hands to public occupational institutions, and we do what is necessary. In the Constitution, there are talks about nearly 20 percent public occupational institutions, and of course, other public occupational institutions could be evaluated and improved on the basis of equality. It's possible that what we're expecting is that this could happen later on, or that we've already said what we want to do. Friends, why don't we solve the problems of our public professions, why don't we solve the problems of our specialist sergeants, of our veteran gendarmes, and why don't we give them the necessary improvements, the necessary contribution, and the support that we need? Now, I'd like to give you an example of history. Before Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk goes to Samsun, he and Cevat Çobanli, the chief of the General Staff of the period, visit the Sadrazam of the period again in office. In the address of the visit, Cevat Çobanlı and Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Beyoğlu -- who was in Sadrazam's mansion in Beyoglu in the street in those days -- Cevat Çobanlı asks a question, and the Chief of the General Staff asks: "Are you going to do something serious? ▪ Gazi Mustafa Kemal answers: Yes, Pasha, I'm going to do something. And that has been done by the Republic of Turkey. Dear friends, let's do something, it's not difficult, it's not impossible; let's remove the obstacles in front of our special sergeants, let's put these brothers on the staff. They are looking for a will to rise from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The mind shows the truth, the heart reveals the difference between good and true. Praise be to God, the Turkish nation has both the mind and the heart. In the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our nation's saintly representatives have a mind and a heart. Then why don't we just ignore our sergeants as experts because of the fact that we have brains and hearts, why don't we put them on the staff? Now, I'd like to share one thing: the date is May 1, 2016, the location is Nusaybin. An expert sergeant is injured in the arm and leg by the shots fired by traitors during the trench operations in Nusaybin. Right after that, an improvised explosive device explodes, the location of our hero collapses and falls under our hero. This hero will be rescued from here, taken to the hospital, then brought to Ankara, where he will be treated for nearly a year and a half. Fortunately, after the treatment, this hero will be reinstated, but it doesn't end here. After a while, this hero is reported unable to see work because he cannot hear the ears and burns above the specified rates, and our hero, unfortunately, is removed from the Turkish Armed Forces. My dear friends, this hero of ours, an expert sergeant, has received an inoperable report and has been dismissed from his profession as an expert sergeant. Dear friends, I'd like you all to know that this is our shame, you know, this hero of ours has collected garbage for eight months. This hero wasn't considered a veteran because he didn't lose any limbs, but he had to be considered a liability, which didn't count; he was called a badass, and he didn't get paid for eight months. My dear friends, we just spoke to Mr. Doğan in the back, and Mr. Doğan knows. This hero is trying to make a living collecting garbage. Let's put our hands on our conscience and think for a moment. To whom did this brother, this hero, get hurt? Who was he a victim of? Who did he fall into this position for? For us, for our back fight, for the defense of the country and the nation. So, is there any point in telling this brother to go eight months today and come back tomorrow? Is that true? It's all here.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0250par0043	We've made a motion, admit it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0249par0044	We'd like a staff of our special sergeants. If all the members of the Veterans show their common will, they'll take this position. At least this hero won't be removed from TSK with the excuse for his inoperable report. Our request is to extend a hand to our expert sergeants. The future of a nation whose hero is ashamed is defeated. The future of the Turkish nation cannot be defeated, and these heroes lay down their mortal bodies in front of traitors for the country, for the flag, for the holy, for the holy, for the destiny; they fight them at the cost of death, never for fear, never for retreat. So, my dear friends, are you a hero who collects pet bottles?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0046	Tell it to the AKP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0252par0047	Tell it to the AKP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0048	Go tell the AKP, to the AKP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0253par0049	Or another brother, another hero, our Specialist Sergeant Levent...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0050	Tell the AKP, what are you telling us? We've already been saying that.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0254par0051	We've been talking about it since last week.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0253par0052	What are we talking about? We're telling the truth.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0053	Tell it to the AKP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0255par0054	That's a lot of talk!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0253par0055	We're telling you. Aren't you a member of the Veteran Assembly?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0056	To the AKP, we know.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0256par0057	You don't want him to tell you? What's going on?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0251par0058	We already know that.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0257par0059	Why is this bothering you?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0256par0060	Okay, if you're not gonna listen, get out.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0258par0061	We'd like to be given it anyway.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0257par0062	We're talking...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0259par0063	That's what we're saying, let them have it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0257par0064	Aren't we going to talk? Aren't we going to worry?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0260par0065	I told them last week about the vet who tried to live off the garbage you mentioned, but it doesn't help his victims.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0261par0066	Mr. Free, they're just talking.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0257par0067	We share them. You don't mind the chief of staff talking? You don't mind talking to the veterans?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0261par0068	What's he talking about out of the blue?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0262par0069	It's actually a constructive contribution.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0263par0070	Show some respect for the Hati!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0264par0071	We support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0265par0072	We support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0266par0073	We support it, we all have suggestions.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0267par0074	My dear friends, we want the solution to the problems of our special sergeants.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0265par0075	We support it, to the end. Let the heroes be granted their rights, we'll call it nothing.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0268par0076	We're rooting for it. Okay, tell whoever doesn't support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0265par0077	We want the right to hand it over.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0269par0078	We're against the abuse of our expert sergeants. We're waiting for a refund. It is necessary for justice, it is necessary for national conscience, it is necessary for rights. Guys, what are we supposed to say when we're not going to say it?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0268par0079	We support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0269par0080	And I've learned that the necessary initiative for our hero has been launched, but we haven't heard from him at the moment whether the salary is tied up or not. I hope, I pray God, that we will never meet these cases, these cases, these sad cases again, and we will never have to deal with them again. We'd like a staff of our special sergeants. We want 3,600 additional indicators for our special sergeants, along with our senior carabinieri.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0268par0081	We want additional compensation.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0269par0082	There's no need for polemics, no need for polemics, dear friends. We're here seeking the solution to a matter that's costing people. Therefore, we ask that the one-year term spent in the schools of our 3,600 additional indicators and specialist gendarmes be counted as actual service. It's not about talking, it's about action, it's about action, it's about doing what's necessary. I've spoken to our master sergeant, I've spoken to him, and this hero is also an embarrassing brother, like all our brothers and sisters. We told them...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0270par0084	Let's open it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0269par0085	... If we do what is necessary as the Veterans' House, I believe we will be welcome both in this world and in the court. Of course we don't have a score to settle. I don't think anyone deliberately prevented it, but there's a negligence, there's a delay; let's not be late, let's not be neglectful. We've been talking for months, and when it comes to our expert sergeant, why are we stopping, why are we being late, why are we giving up, why are we playing three monkeys? So, my dear friends, we hope and desire that the problems of our heroes be resolved. I put the matter on your conscience, I transfer it to you all. I believe that a common mind in our Parliament, a common will, will be crystallized, will be the end of the problems of our expert sergeants, our veteran gendarmes, our policemen, our heroes. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0271par0090	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0272par0091	Deputy Director of the Group wants a word, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0271par0094	Mr. President, we listened very carefully to the precious speaker, and when he asked us, our friends from our group said, "Tell me this way." He said, that's a very accurate statement, but the entire House is listening. We've studied the election statements of all parties, and I'm co-ordinating this in person, and let's say that all the parties have co-ordinated this, plus that there's a lot of problems with gun licenses after retirement, and there's a lot of problems with that. We're not against it, but he should also know that there's a 306-plus figure in Parliament and that I don't act with him on other issues that the ruling party doesn't say yes to, such as pensioners, I don't act with him, I don't act with him, I don't act with him. We're very clear on what he's saying, self-resolving... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It's important, but it's also very valuable for a congressman to follow up on it. Last week, our Burcu Koksal friend raised the same problem on the stand, and we heard it from here. It's like throwing washed-up starfish into a sea, but the truth is, we all figured it out together. We fully support what your honor is talking about, but it's the ruling party that's not coming any closer, and you're going to come back and account for it very clearly against the citizens. I didn't mean to do anyone's harm on purpose... for 17 years here, you've added strength to your might, men don't solve it. Then you go back and squeeze them, and if you look your friend in the eye of the CHP Group and tell him, he'll say, "Don't tell me, tell me." That's our pleasure, we have no other intention. We support these problems unconditionally, no matter who it comes from. That is the attitude of CHP, that is clear.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0273par0098	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0274par0099	Let's make a promise to Mr. Izzet. Here you go. It's important.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0104	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers here, isnat here, the attack here, the non-consequential, meaningless polemics here, will not lead us to a conclusion. Seventeen years, yes, the ruling Justice and Development Party. Expert sergeants have been having this problem since 1986, and contractors since 1986 have been unable to enter military homes since 1986. Mr. Deputy Director, you don't have to answer me, so please don't listen to me with the intention of answering me, because if you listen with the intention of answering, there's no deal. I share a concern, a thought, an approach. I'm here to address the spirit of the Veterans, the conscience of the Veterans, not the CHP and the Justice and Development Party, and we're all going to do it together. Why are you trying to create a political conflict and polarization here?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0276par0106	That's not true!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0107	I beg you, don't do it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0276par0108	That's not true!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0277par0109	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0110	That's not true, that's not true.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0277par0111	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0112	You do it, you always do it, don't do it, don't do it!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0277par0113	There's no such thing!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0114	What kind of a thing is that? So let's solve the problems of our senior sergeants' brides, solve the problems of our veteran carabinieri.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0278par0116	You're in everything together and you're separated from it? Oh, come on!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0117	Guys, as long as we're fighting, we're hurting our special sergeants, our veteran gendarmes, and we're doing injustice to our friends in the mountains who are fighting for their country in stone. Come on, let's all...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0278par0118	Who's doing it?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0119	Well, we...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0278par0120	Who's doing it? The AKP is doing it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0275par0121	Why?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0279par0122	We're in, we're in!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0280par0123	Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, We're in, bring it in, let's go to a vote. We're in, let's go! We've been saying it for years, and we're not the ones who don't.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0279par0124	We're in!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0281par0125	Where can we go with a fight? Therefore, I appeal to the conscience of the Veterans Assembly, hoping, in my hope, that the problems of our special sergeants, our veterans, will be solved.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0282par0127	We're not the AKP who rejected so many offers.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0281par0128	I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0283par0129	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0284par0130	Mr. President, for the same reason, why are you taking the right to answer the question of the Chief Sergeants out of political bullying and polarization...?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0283par0131	It's about...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0284par0132	Directly to me...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0283par0133	Aye, well, I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0284par0134	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0285par0135	There is no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0283par0136	He just spoke to the preacher, and I don't accept the fact that there's a congressman who doesn't have goose bumps in the eye of the witness's example. So we agree with the sentiment of the Republican People's Party -- I heard it out loud there -- and Burcu Hanım has expressed her sensitivity to the same thing. So Mr. Izzet Ulvi Yölter brings it to the agenda of the entire Assembly, and he says, "Let's settle this with all the parties." There's no problem here. So there's no need to fight anyone. I address the conscience of this House. He's right, and really, it's been going on since 1986, and it's hurting us, so hopefully we'll figure it out in the next few days. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0286par0140	Mr. President, I'm surprised the esteemed MPs left here to answer. We said we'd contribute, we said the real answer to the problem, but there are some difficulties, some discrepancies in the political relationship issue, which he thought was worth answering, and he came here. The AK PARTI group who came to give this answer could have been acting president, and if he had said: "This problem is not 17 years old, this problem has been a strong argument since 1986.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0287par0141	Don't look here, look over there and talk.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0286par0142	But in response to this, they would also say: "From 1999 to 2002, the CHP was not in power; the problem in your power has not been solved, you admit it. We have not been in power since 1989, but we have not been able to address the Nationalist Movement Party -- from 1999 to 2002 -- as the AK PARTI had done in the past. We know the problems of that tripartite coalition period. You weren't there last semester, you have experienced friends, AK PARTY came out and told you about what happened at that time. At the time, we, not even as a political party who was not in Parliament, did not take advantage of it. Here's the face of your group vice president, we've all worked together. Now, let me not touch the AK PARTY in this matter, but don't take advantage of the Republican People's Party, I don't know... these things are political, sir, they're exceptional, they're political. We're here to keep our promises. Politics is a matter of prioritizing. If the man's priority is the expense of the palace and the chief sergeant's money is no more, it's a matter of extraordinary politics. He doesn't know that politics is a priority: this state has a lot of money, enough for all needs, not all of it. Your allies spend their money elsewhere, no more money for specialist sergeants. You can't come up with a solution or politics without that fact. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0288par0145	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0289par0146	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0288par0148	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, if we believe in democracy, if we believe in national will and national sovereignty, we need to know that the political parties that have served under this roof have been working to serve this nation in an effort to protect the trust of the nation. See, in the past decade, there has been only one reason behind the attacks of interest lobby, oil companies and gun barons, with continuous closure cases, with a decision of 367, custody pressures and travel attempts, and that is only due to the determination and determination of the nation to offer its trust to the service of the nation.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0290par0149	It's not like they're special sergeants!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0291par0150	Come to the problem. How do we solve the problem, Mr. Cahit? How do we solve the sergeants' problem?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0288par0151	We, until today... look, as per standard of living, the resources of our employees, as of their social rights, have been present for 16 years. Our people know that. Oh, the commitments we made to our police officers regarding the 3600 additional indicators... look, we're only today, as someone tries to reassure our nation by getting a notary document, and we're taking them step by step, by step, by step. Whatever service there is in this country, whatever resources the nation has, we will endeavor to offer again, again, in the service of the nation. And when the time comes, we'll continue to do so with our group, with the alliances in Congress, within the scope of budget discipline, within the scope of our country's resources. My respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0292par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0293par0156	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0292par0157	Mr. Orender will speak.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0293par0158	Mr. Izzet, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0294par0160	Dear friends, I didn't accuse anyone, I didn't tease anyone. There's no way I'm going to have that kind of intention when we're talking about the problems of our special sergeants, our veteran gendarmes. In part of my speech, I made it clear that it would be unfair to them. Mr. Vice President of the Republican People's Party, trying to get up here, deepen the issue and drown it with polemics, is unfair not to us, but to our special sergeants, our expert gendarmes in the first place. Now, remind me of 1999-2002...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0295par0162	He didn't say anything against it! There's nothing against it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0294par0163	I'm expressing a historical fact, my dear friends. ▪ Ahfesh is the name of a disease that fears light and looks after darkness as a dictionary. We're not afraid of the light, we're not sick, we're sane, our hearts are working, thank God. We just want to solve the matter of our special sergeants, our senior carabinieri. This way...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0296par0164	We support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0294par0165	God bless you if you support me.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0296par0166	We support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0294par0167	The Veteran Parliament, all MPs, all lawmakers will solve this issue.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0297par0168	We've been supporting you from the very beginning. Our vice president of the group said that, we'll support him. He said that. We're giving unconditional support to the soldiers.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0294par0169	That's what you've done for years, you've come years with such arguments, such confrontations, come on.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0298par0170	We're not arguing, we're supporting.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0297par0171	Bring him in, we'll back him up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0298par0172	We want it as much as you do.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0173	We're being watched by our special sergeants, our veteran carabinieri.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0297par0174	Bring him in, we'll back him up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0298par0175	Now, now, now, now, now!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0176	Why are you talking?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0297par0177	You tell your ally your ally doesn't want it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0178	Isn't it unfair to them, to insult them?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0297par0179	Your ally doesn't want it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0180	They're putting their bodies under the bomb for us.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0300par0181	Bring in the law, we support it, now!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0182	Don't, don't! They're watching us right now.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0301par0183	Bring it here, we'll stack it up. Your allies don't want it, your allies don't support it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0184	Ziya Paşa says he'll be in the shade Dide-i Huffash is from Ziya.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0302par0185	Unless you're waiting for your time.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0186	I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0302par0188	Bring the bill, don't wait.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0299par0189	We've been offered the law, on the commission, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0302par0190	We're behind him. Tell the gentlemen, now!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0303par0191	Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0304par0192	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0303par0193	Mr. Yavuz, Mr. Erkan asked for a promise before, and then I'll give it to you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0305par0194	Let's get it on the agenda right away.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0303par0195	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0306par0199	Mr. President, if you invite the Republican People's Party Group to rest, I will give my speech.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0303par0200	Congressmans, this is the Deputy Director of the Group. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Director of the Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0306par0202	Our orator Mr. Yölter has made it very clear, very clear that we have raised an important issue of law proposals, which we have repeatedly brought up before, without bullying any group or person. However, during his speech, the Republican People's Party began to pick on him because of our speaker's speech. Look here, not there. No, I don't know, some things...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0307par0203	There's no discomfort.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0308par0204	We supported it. Mr. President, our statements are being issued.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0306par0205	Mr. President, dear friends, under this great roof, we have passed the very important and valuable laws of the Republic's People's Party and the National Movement Party, both with the ruling party and with the past. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, may I complete it?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0309par0208	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0306par0209	And again, in this matter of specialist sergeants, in the coming process of time, I claim and strongly hope, of course, that with the participation of the Republican People's Party and other parties, we will get it out of this great House. But these negotiations can be made from time to time. But please, let's be respectful, not disrespectful. So there's nothing to be disturbed about. And I find it absolutely pointless and useless that you're trying to provoke us by highlighting our political relations with the Justice and Development Party. That's what I'm saying. And there's no point in going any further on about it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0309par0210	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0310par0211	Mr. President, I'd like to say a few words...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0309par0212	Mr. Yavuz, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0310par0213	Thank you. Mr. President, good lawmakers, for the record. Our friends sometimes say things like they're reproaching us when we're talking. Politically, I'm just saying, what political ground are we going to stand for? We will raise our hand immediately as soon as the National Movement Party Group, including EYT, brings in any proposal they have committed to the election, any offer they have promised their constituents. So we're never going to express our sensitivities here, that they're bringing us here, that they're bringing us here, that we're not going to say "yes" to what we're doing for the good of the nation. I want to express our sensitivity in this frame, no matter who it comes from, because we're not interested in who's going to benefit the people, we're interested in what's coming. I'd like to express our sensitivity. I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0311par0216	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0217	Mr. President, during his oratory speech, Mr. President has accused us of smothering the issue with pollen, deepening the issue and demeaning it, and we will take our right to answer.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0311par0218	Don't let him bully you. Come on in.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0219	Yes, Mr. President. I'm not picking on you anyway.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0313par0221	You attack, you don't tease.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0314par0222	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0225	Mr. President, good lawmakers, it's about picking on someone who doesn't deserve it, saying a word, accusing them of something, eliminating the truth, or insulting them. I made it very clear, I said, "Here's your interview." I told you about this 1999-2002 when you told me about 1989. They've demonized your three years of difficult coalition partnership, saying that in the past few years, it wasn't edible. There's something very clear at the point of arrival today. This Parliament has a general rule: when proposals come to Parliament, it belongs to lawmakers, it belongs to parties, it belongs to the people, it belongs to the people, and if the offer comes from this, I don't vote, if it comes from this, it's nothing more than making excuses to not keep the promise made to the people. GOOD PARTY offers YIT; you all voted together, and you all voted together. The instructions came in, you used the vote of rejection, you wiped the tweets together, whereas the problem with the sergeant who lives in retirement and the problem with the nut maker is that everyone expects it together under this roof. So I had nothing to do with the people's expectations against the people's expectations. This party supports it, and I don't vote together. Their approach has nothing to do with it, nor does it in the nation; it's very clear.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0228	Mr. Ozgur, your president, your other group vice president, says the same thing. On November 22, 2017, exactly one year ago, there were the words of Engin Altay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0229	Mr. President of the Group, Mr. Cahit, let us tell you that our promise is a bond. Did you say? You just said that.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0230	Engin Altay says I don't accept. So you're denying it, then? Do you deny your own friend?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0231	Mr. Cemal Enginyurt, Mr. Mustafa Adılle, they've delivered a separate motion.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0232	Engin Altay Bey says if you bring the world's best work, we won't accept it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0233	You rejected those motions separately. You promised me a month ago that this motion...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0235	Our motions...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0236	He's a friend!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0237	But Mr. Free, it's the truth!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0316par0238	Let's not talk mutually, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0239	Friend, is this bench forbidden to you?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0240	Do you deny your friend what you just said?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0241	Why don't you shut up? Is this bench forbidden to you?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0315par0242	You decide I'm going to talk?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0312par0243	You talk out of it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0317par0244	Yeah, learn to listen!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0318par0245	Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Congressmans, this is the deputy leader of the group, everyone listen up.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0319par0247	Mr. President, here's the thing: our word is your bond. You said it. The transcripts were a month ago. Mr. Cemal has spoken on behalf of the MPP, Mustafa Adılle on behalf of the Republican People's Party. Separate pecan motions are rejected, there's a reaction. You came out of there and said, "We'll bring this motion next week. We'll all go together, I hope." Brother, if you promise me, the cost of protesting for three weeks, the interest for three weeks... who are we going to charge for playing with people's conscience, with people's minds? Are you mocking the people's minds and ours? You promised all our groups to bring the problem of the nut makers next week three weeks ago; first keep your promise, then promise me again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0320par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0321par0251	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0322par0252	Mr. Erkan, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0321par0254	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers seem to have a tendency to prolong this issue.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0323par0255	Mr. Private teased me, I made a promise to him. Tell him.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0321par0256	Sir, there's no need to take too long. The National Movement Party is a party that dominates its own agenda, and I repeated it in the morning. It is also futile to interfere with the nationalist Movement Party's stance, attitude, rhetoric, policies, and political relations and blend in and achieve some political humidity from here; I would like to express it. Everyone look at their own party. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The nationalist movement party follows its own agenda. You're also misconstrued the motion to investigate the House, as if a proposal of the law had come to pass as if it had been rejected. That's wrong. Then, there's nothing in this framework to transfer to the House Research Commission. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying this for the other EYT, or I'm saying that in terms of additional indicators, or I'm not talking about nuts. Because that nut motion was also a motion for the National Movement Party. That's what he said. He said that. It's futile to go into certain polemics like this. There's no need. The National Movement Party doesn't go after other parties' agendas. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0324par0264	Mr. Izzet, you have a request.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0325par0267	Mr. President, high-profile lawmakers find it very easy to justify a conflicting misdemeanor. Thank God we never wavered in contradiction, nor did we follow in error. Second, hesitation prevents the perception of reality. Unnecessary politics is a product of warp. Our politics have a purpose, let the aimless think. True devotion also shows the beauty of compromise. Here, let's all agree on something, and we'll work it out. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0271	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0327par0272	Mr. President, but in a manner of speaking...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0273	Go ahead, Mr. President, talk till morning, so what do we do?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0327par0274	But, Mr. President, please, I mean, you see what's going on.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0275	Here, we're comfortable, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0327par0276	We're comfortable, too.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0277	But I'm telling you from the bottom of my heart, it's a shameful thing to do with politics and voting through this.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0328par0279	Mr. President, did you refer to our group as political and voting purposes in this matter?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0280	No, no, no, it wasn't.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0328par0281	Give yourselves a round of applause, fellas.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0329par0282	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0283	Mr. President, just a minute... No group has ever been meant.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0330par0285	I'm sure you intend to, Mr. President, and someone misunderstood him so we could show him.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0326par0286	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0331par0287	Anyone who's hurt gets hurt.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0332par0288	You're dating.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0333par0289	Sure.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0334par0290	Your job is to tease, your job is to do it, your job is to do it.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0335par0291	You're hurt.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0336par0292	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0335par0293	What are you talking about here?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0337par0294	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0338par0295	What's the matter, you can't beat it with your word, you'll attack again?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0339par0296	Why can't we beat you with the word?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0340par0297	Mr. Deputy Director of the Group, we're listening to the deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0338par0298	Wait, let's stay five, you'll come. Okay?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0341par0299	Do you want to fight, or do you want to fight?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0340par0300	Gentlemen, the esteemed MPs... Let's fight then.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0342par0302	Are you going to use violence?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0340par0303	Mr. Enginyurt... Ladies and gentlemen of the law...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0343par0306	Come on, it's okay; come on.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0344par0307	She's gonna beat him up!
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0345par0308	What are you gonna do, come and beat him up?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0346par0309	What are you gonna do, beat him up?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0347par0310	Hand-to-hand movement, what-what-what-what...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0348par0311	Mr. Erkan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0349par0312	Calm down, we have a friend on the stand.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0348par0313	Mr. Free, we're listening to the deputy leader of the group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0350par0314	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0348par0315	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I call for silence. Yes, Mr. Group Vice President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0351par0319	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, are the custodians of our nation's will, which has the ability and power to assess all issues firsthand, no matter how many problems there are in the area of law, execution, and judiciary in Turkey. In 973 districts in Turkey, in all our provinces, in all the courts, all the conflicts, the debates can be discussed under this sacred roof, which is the registrar of our nation's will. I said, "What did I say about the nuts?" I said, "We're working on it." Right now, the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Turkey, our government, is doing Cabinet evaluations, and we'll do our work. According to the conclusion, if necessary, we meet with all groups, set up a research commission on the matter. At the moment, there's a price of nuts that goes up to $16.5, along with its support; 16.5. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) Ha, not everyone can understand Turkish lira, but they can see it as dollars, and there's the price of nuts over $3 in dollars. With all due respect.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit04spe0352par0323	I'm taking a 20-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0352par0001	I open the Fifth Session of Turkey's 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly. We continue the talks of Law Proposal Number 14. The commission is in place. The final word on the 4th article is for the Republican People's Party Group's Adana MP Ayhan Gundat. Here you go, Mr. Gunpowder.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0353par0010	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'm deeply sorry for the loss of our esteemed congressman, our dear brother, Erdin Bircan. My condolences to his family and to our party. My condolences to those who died today because of the mining accident in Zonguldak, and I wish the wounded well. Dear lawmakers, I will review on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on Article 4 of the Law Proposal for Changes in the Law on Rooms and Stock Exchanges with the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges in Turkey. As a friend of yours who has served in rooms connected to the TOBBB and TMMOB, who have served for many years, who has served as presidents, who has worked hard, who knows these areas well, I would like to say that we are the representatives of the people who serve in the Turkish Republic's legislative body, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. This Parliament is a House of the Organization and Salvation, the Veteran Assembly. We shouldn't compromise the dignity of this great House with special legal arrangements, a delivery of the law to the address. I think it's a personal proposal, and I think it should be judged in that way. In addition, according to the law proposal given by the power, the presidents of the Union and the members of the Union board, the presidents of the stock market and the heads of the rooms and the board of directors, may or may not be on the list in general or local elections. It is said that they can return when they do not. It is said that I think it is a double standard because why are the institutions that benefit from this law only the TOBBBB and TESK? Why aren't there 18 rooms and organisations left out? I'll tell you, capital organizations are okay, no labour organizations. In other words, our rooms, such as the TMMOB, the Medical Chamber, the Chamber of Pharmaceuticals, the Bars, the Chamber of Dentists, are legal personalities based on Article 135 of the Constitution. However, it is also expressed by lawmakers that the provision cannot be made by a change in the TOBB Law. Because it is said in the election that the sentence for those who have left the post for the nomination and for the return of unelected public officials has been carried out in Article 7 of the Law on Elections 298 and Voters' Logs. So it seems that the arrangement of the law proposal must be made on the additional 7th article. In other words, it is evident that this regulation, which brings a law against another law, cannot be implemented in the 31st March elections, even if it is also legal, because the amendments to the Constitution's 67th Article of Election Law cannot be implemented in the elections within a year from the date of its implementation. It is also another issue when a proposal for a law on election legislation is discussed by the Commission for Industry, Trade, Energy, Of course Resources, Information and Technology instead of the Constitutional Commission. This proposal must be enforced by abolitioning uncertainty and legal disputes that will compromise everyone, regardless of all debates. Dear President, the precious MPs; the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchange Association, as part of the activities of the Turkish Trade and Artists Confederacy, need to take a look at the situation of the trade, the trade, the trade, the trade, the trade, and the trade. There's one thing we've expressed since the day we took this stand, but the power doesn't want to see: this is a deep economic crisis and a political crisis within a painful picture. Our country is on fire, from the tradesman to the farmer, from the industrialist to the business world, from pensioners to the civil servants. We're finished, we're burned, we're exhausted. Inflation has taken its toll, the economy has collapsed, and the shop is closing down. The farmer can't win because the production costs have gone up; the medicine, the seed, the fertilizer, the diesel is up to two or three times as high. Even the onion is over five liras, and the hero is really in need of dry onions. In the past, even the straw left in the fields for the poor has become imported. We are all in the same boat. I say to those who say: If this fire is not resolved, we will all burn. Those who lean on power and add wealth to their wealth will not survive this fire. Dear lawmakers, polycultural agriculture is being done in our region. Narcensian, cotton, corn, soy, melon, watermelon, wheat, and hard core are the main ones. However, there are major problems with citrus products. Our country is producing 4.8 million tonnes of citrus, 75% of which are produced in the Çukurova region. It exports around 1.7 million tons and brings about 900 million dollars worth of currency. In addition to agricultural labor, which ends in winter, and as a cure for unemployment, it also creates a business with harvest, packaging and prunes. We're doing 60 percent of our exports to Russia in this product. Recently, due to both political and Mediterranean fruit flies, our exports have been blocked by Russia, and our products are being shipped back to ports by ships. Because of the economic difficulties in the sector, slowing exports, prices have dropped daily and remained in the branch; prices starting at $1.50 per pound have dropped to 50p per pound. A two-headed solution must be formulated in the field of citrus and in the future production immediately. Matters that need immediate solutions: 1) The resolution of this customs problem in Russia must be ensured that the goods that leave should not return. 2) Export support from the DFI (Supporting and Price Stability Fund) for many years has been reduced from $120 to $50 last year. This year, that number has not yet been announced. This export support must be announced immediately. 3) Last year's rights must be paid urgently. 4) Due to the high cost of financing, the limited exports of goods of our farmers must be given proper loans with Eximbank or the public bank. For the next season, the Ministry of Agriculture has to wage a mass battle against the harmful like the Mediterranean fruit fly. Fruit-cutting criteria must be set. In particular, for a certain solution to the Mediterranean fruit fly's pest, a sterilized male must be castrated and produced in the country and released into the wild. My valued deputies, my valued lawmakers, are the most important elements of the agriculture industry in this sense, and the ones who allow the farmer to produce technical goods, the agricultural engineers, food engineers, water products engineers, veterinary physicians, technicians, and technicians who make the most important rings of the chain from field to table. However, these distinguished trade groups of agriculture are very distressed by the employment of our people, where agriculture will not be available if they don't. Our colleagues, who have been deceived in hopes of employment and appointment for about 17 months, are awaiting an appointment from the Ministry of Agriculture. The last Minister of Agriculture of the Parliamentary System has not yet fulfilled a commitment to appoint 10,551. Why don't we keep promises to our unemployed young people, to our colleagues? Isn't continuity in institutions and governments fundamental? These young people, who are already unemployed, are constantly channeling them into the private sector; if they can, why would these people, these colleagues, want to work in public? I'm calling from here to the Ministry to give these young people, these colleagues, assignments and jobs. Dear MPs, I'd like to make a final assessment of the airport of our Adana. Our Adana has an airport, and there is no need for a new airport. The airport is the safest and most comfortable airport in the world. Recently, Adana Airport is wanted to be shut down and move to the borders of our neighbouring province, the Chukurova Regional Airport. The regional airport, however, is not the answer to the problems of our neighbouring province. The new airport is a first-class agricultural area of about 10,000 per cent, land of alluvial land, first-class land, where tourism is growing. Furthermore, when the airport is finished, construction, construction work will destroy a much larger number of agricultural areas. The area is also on the migration path of migratory birds. The airport, which is to be driven out of the borders of our province, will bring a heavy weight to our city life and our economy. We need to keep that value of our city. Let's not add another one to institutions and institutions such as TRT, District Directorate of Highways, district courts, which have been taken from our province in the past or forced to move. We expect the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure to make a statement about this in order not to cause another trauma to our Adana province. I give you all my love and respect. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0354par0030	Mr. Orhan, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0355par0033	Thank you, Mr. President. A fire broke out in the electrical ignition earlier in the evening hours at the Martyt Koray Special Anadolu School Lodge in Feke district of Adana, my constituency district. The fire was extinguished by fire crews shortly before it grew. Just as the anniversary of the calamity of Aladağ, which has scorched all of our hearts, this fire at the 6-story, 170-year-old boarding house in Fike has brought our hearts to our throats. Our children and their families are in a panic. Anyway, these children, children of our poor families who have to stay here because there are no schools in their village, will spend the night on the street. Let us not forget the calamity we suffered in Aladağ, the grieving mothers and fathers who were left without children, so that we may not lose new lives. I thank you, Mr. President, for all our students, teachers and the people of Fake, who have been affected by the fire and wish to learn from it. I'd like to point out that right now...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0356par0040	We also wish you well. Mr. Baki, please.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0357par0044	Mr. President, the precious orator has said that Adana Airport will be shut down and Çukurova Airport will be opened. Mersin is one of the few major cities with a population of 2 million and no airports. The Adanans can take care of their own airports, there's nothing we can say to him. However, I strongly condemn a Adana MP's opposition to the Çukurova Airport, which is to be held by an MP in our neighbouring province, and I leave it to the members of the Republican People's Party, Mersin, as well.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0358par0046	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0359par0047	I'll give you my word on your position. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0358par0050	Mr. President, first of all, we're against moving our Adana Airport to another location, this is the first one. Secondly: Çukurova Regional Airport, which is being built in Mersin Province -- as part of a profession -- is built on top of first-class alluvial land and 3 products per year, where many democratic mass organisations, occupational rooms have already filed legal lawsuits. That's why we say it's inappropriate. And in particular -- it can be done to Mersin -- the airport that is being held now -- a member of parliament from the National Movement Party said it yesterday -- very, very, it doesn't give them any proximity in terms of distance, in terms of transportation. In fact, Adana Airport is close to Adana, but Adana Province... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, this is important.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0360par0054	All right, wrap it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0358par0055	... Since it's out of bounds, we're concerned about an airport that's out of Adana on active passive. We don't want our airport to be shut down in Adana, and we say to do it in the more suitable parts of Mersin, which is what we want to say.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0360par0059	On behalf of the individuals, our Eskişehir MP, Mr. Jale Nur Sullü will speak. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0361par0062	Mr. President, dear members of the House, I have been promised to call upon you on a matter I believe to be highly sensitive to all lawmakers present in the House. It's about the kids, the lawmakers. Our own child, our grandson, a kid who sells handkerchiefs in the cold, a kid running around in the tents of seasonal workers, a kid whose face is in the industry, a kid with black hands, or a kid who gets out of his house and can't be heard from for days. They're all our children. Not only do we have to show love, protect and protect our children, but we have to respect their rights. So, can we protect our children in the family, in the streets, in the school, in the workplace? The truth of our country gives us a clear answer to that question, lawmakers. The inequality of regional and economic differences in access to education violates the right to development when a child cannot benefit from education equally. It is a violation of the rights of children's rights to go to schools outside the school they want, which is only 1.200,000 students -- 1.6,536 (a.k.a. 10 per cent) -- which is just 10 per cent -- to go to schools outside the school they want to go to. The increase in child labor is the largest indicator of child poverty, as well as the number of children's workers is the greatest sign of child poverty, as well as the inconsistency of working conditions threatens children's health and life. Children's workers in Turkey work in areas designated as the most dangerous areas with the ILO Convention No. 182 adopted in 2001, members of parliament. Children's workers in the countryside, especially the children of seasonal workers, have many rights violations in education, security, housing, social environment. The pesticides and chemicals they're exposed to violate the children's right to live in a healthy environment. Children who work in small and medium-sized businesses face job accidents, occupational disorders or risks. In 2018, the right to life of 62 children under the age of 14. One of the most important problems that threatens our children's physical and mental health is drug and drug addiction. A 100 percent increase in the number of children who have taken drugs in our country over the past decade, 16 years old, unfortunately dropped to 12 years of age, and 33 percent of the children brought to security units are extremely worrying. The biggest injustice that adults do to children through a power relationship involves a wide range of physical, economic, psychological abuse, but the most visible is sexual abuse. In Turkey, sexual abuses against children in the past 15 years have increased by about 400 per cent and are the third in the world. Congressmans, have you ever met a child who was pregnant with his own father in your life? I've been thinking all these years about that grandmother of yours, the way she couldn't look me in the face, the way she looked at the babies in the closet, the way she looked at the pregnant mother. Of course, it's only natural because he was only a 15-year-old child, like a child under 15 years of age, whose number was reported to be 1,260 in one hospital in 2016 and 158 in the last five months. In addition to being a social injury, these figures and events also threaten children's rights to life and health because the risk of mother and child mortality is five times greater in child pregnancy.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0362par0070	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0361par0071	Mr. President, thank you. Children's rights violations are too wide and sensitive to sum up in five minutes. I know that all my colleagues in the House are uncomfortable hearing about rights violations and increases in numbers on this delicate issue. And since I know of your sensitivity, we didn't bring the matter to the House in that way because we didn't want it to be rejected as a commission motion by a research commission or by the House Council of Parliament. We did not find it right for any lawmakers in parliament to step into a position that rejects child rights that lead to painful consequences and take responsibility for it. Look, lawmakers, we can forget all about what's been said here and go into other business again, until we hear about a new child's death or rape, until a new child has been violated. But let's not do that this time, and our group presidents are here, and they'll be here next week, and they'll get together as soon as possible, and we'll have a...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0363par0075	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0361par0076	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to make a call on behalf of myself and my group, so that we can all perform a study as a joint proposal. I sincerely salute the General Assembly with respect and love that this call will be answered in the High Council. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0364par0080	Second word for the individuals, Heromarash MP Mehmet Jihat Sezal.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0365par0082	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask Allah's mercy to our CHP Edirne MP Erdin Bircan, who was taken to the hospital at the beginning of my statement on July 30th, and who was taken to the afterlife on Sunday (November 18th). I offer my condolences to his loved ones, relatives, and CHP Group. I have made a pledge on Article 4 of the Law Proposal to Change the Law of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey. I salute your high council. Our desire to make a change in the relevant law is that democracy can work better and develop better. We also want to eliminate uncertainty as to who will resign in general and local elections, who will be able to resume their duties. This law would allow the members of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey to resume their duties as a result of their failure to be nominated for nomination in local and general elections, as part of a union, room and stockholders and members. Dear lawmakers, if Turkey wants to use a business person, experience and savings of the Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges as deputies or to serve at home and the nation in local governments, it is also the right of members of the Union, such as any Turkish citizen to enter a service race in this area. There's no need to stand in anyone's way with the law. We think that if we eliminate this limit, more people will want to have a say in the ministry and in the country's administration. This will certainly bring color and excitement to our democracy. In fact, our Commission agreed on almost all the proposals as the proposal was discussed. There was only one problem, which was that troops and rooms in this law code could be expanded further. It's in the discretion of our Commission and the members of our esteemed Parliament. Further study can also be done. It would be in this country's best interest to support and encourage the rights of the children of this country to serve the nation instead of being equipped, experienced, well-trained, well-trained, like members of the Union of Chambers and Stock Exchanges of Turkey. Even officials serving in our country today can resign and run for office from a political party. In addition, lawmakers can continue their duties in parliament if they are running for mayor while serving in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, if they cannot win. I think it's right for us to apply an issue and the law to others. With this law, I would also like to point out that we do not support the idea that politics would be involved in the Union of Turkey's Chambers and Stock Exchanges. Members of the Association of Rooms and Stock Exchanges can become members of political parties. They can also serve as city councilmen. They are also people who already have political identities, and there is no legal obstacle to explaining it. If there are no problems in this situation, we think there will be no problems for the general and local elections. Members who want to serve this nation must be able to use their political rights freely and bravely, no matter what party they come from. That's what we stand for: a successful and elected executive can return to his post and continue. It doesn't matter which party you're partied with. Dear lawmakers, when such restrictions have been imposed on members of the Union, the room and the stock market presidents and the board of directors in the past, the number of applicants in the elections has declined significantly. Since the resigning members have not returned, a new election has been made and boards have been set, causing a serious waste of time. And now, with our proposal of the law, the workload and the waste of time will be gone. It is not possible for us to agree with the idea that this arrangement was delivered to the address or made personal. Our other parties will see that after this offer is passed, their party members will also run.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0366par0091	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0365par0092	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. Since yesterday, we've been seeing some reactions, and if the AK is from PARTI, let him come back, and if he's any other party, he won't come back. We're faced with amazing reactions like we said. Politics is not a bad thing, precious MPs; on the contrary, we need to enrich politics, remove barriers to politics, bring people closer to politics. As you all know, Turkey is run by the presidential government system, which means our President is a member of a political party and also the President of the presidency. This has never been an obstacle to his efforts to serve all our citizens equally and objectively. As soon as I'm elected, I will be President of 77 million, not just of those who voted for me. We, as the EC PARTY government, have been in charge of the country for 16 years, have always tried to maintain the same position. Anyway, politics requires primitive and justice. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So, when I say that politics will be involved in rooms and troops, I want to inform the MPs that I don't agree with what they're doing, as if it's a bad thing. Lastly -- of course -- we were going to have a talk yesterday, but not today -- I want to tell you that all the world children of the world celebrate the World Rights Day of November 20th -- the mercy of Bedirhan Karakaya, who died in October 6th, when all the children of the world were killed by separatist traitors, and the future in which all the children of the world grew apart from hunger, poverty, war, and all the evils. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0367par0100	Now we're going to do a ten-minute QA on the matter. Five minutes of this time will be divided into the question and five minutes into the answer process. The first question belongs to Mr. Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0368par0103	First of all, I wish my people of Adana Fekeli to get well soon because of the fire. Since cities in near Hatay are covered by incentives, there is no investment in Hatay. Current investors have also shifted to Osmaniye. Our Hatay housed over 500,000 Syrian refugees, registered and indifferent, serving four or four and a half out of the three. Two unhappy societies standing side by side. We share bread, but it's not enough for both sides. The destruction of agriculture, the failure of border crossings, the rapid rise in dollars, and the slow rise in the economy of Hatay have reached a halt, while the people's mayor of the city, Mr. Lütfü Savaş, quickly gathered 500,000 signatures and tried to announce the demand for the 5th incentive zone to the government.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0367par0105	Mr. Beko...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0369par0106	Mr. President, a large dust cloud covers the village's top and grape vines, known as the famous Kavacik grape, because of marble removed from Kavacık village in the District of Karabağlar, İzmir. Because of this, there is great pollution and negative health conditions in the village and around it. At the same time, efficiency in agricultural areas is falling due to a decline in soil pores, causing economic loss in the region. How many marble furnaces are available in this area? How many are licensed and how many marble stoves have applied for registration? Were the CED reports taken at the time of the registration? What are the consequences of these reports? Despite the negative CED report, is there a marble quarry opening? How often are inspections made for marble furnaces found in the area? What are the consequences of these inspections? Are the areas covered in agricultural areas and subterranean waters being measured?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0367par0108	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0369par0109	I'm going to say a sentence, Mr. President, one sentence, and it's important, so... I'd appreciate it if you'd give me your word, I'd like to say a sentence.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0367par0110	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0369par0111	Will you be able to save money on damaged farmland and products? It's been known to cause lung respiratory tracts to be blocked in humans and all living things after the very thinly formed waste dried up. Hence, cancer cases are likely to increase. Is there a precaution in this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0370par0114	Mr. Arslan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0371par0115	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I don't understand why the ruling party is always playing with election laws. Let's all solve the people's pending problems instead of this law in surrender to the address. For example, let's solve the problems of specialist sergeants, let's make them staffed, let's give them 3600 indicator rights, let's make an arrangement about pensioners, let's see if the subcontractors who weren't recruited can be recruited, let's solve the inequality between Turkish combat veterans and July 15th veterans; let's give them interest-free mortgages, as the 15th of July veterans benefit, let's make sure that veterans benefit from military camps, social facilities. Again, from the public hospitals and public vehicles of combat veterans...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0370par0117	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0372par0118	Mr. President, the infrastructure of the Malatya Province of Hekimhan has been completed by Malatya Metropolitan Municipality but has not been completed in more than two and a half years, the roads are mud in the winter conditions of the Hekimhan district. When will Malatya Metropolitan Municipality make asphalt of main roads in the district of Hekimhan?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0370par0119	Mr. Aydoğan...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0373par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. Business accidents are endless. In Zonguldak Kilimli, our workers were killed and injured by the explosion of methane gas in the mine. Let the dead sleep in the light, and I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. The unlicensed mining site of the explosion suggests that this was not an occupational accident, but a job murder. According to the Labor Health and Occupational Safety Council, only 157 workers died in the work killings last September. The number of workers killed in the first nine months of this year is 1,450. We cannot prevent these murders unless there is an autonomous institutional structure created by the participation of unions, vocational rooms and universities in labour health and safety, in accordance with the ILO norms. I'm asking the Minister of Labor and Social Security, how many more workers have to die to prevent this job killings? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0374par0124	Mr. Commission... Thank you, my esteemed President. We're discussing the final clause of this bill. Our dear friends have expressed questions that are not about us. The fifth joke of Article 98 of the Constitution carried out the regulation on how to ask the written question. There are also regulations concerning the written problem between the 96th and 100th articles of our Civil Charter. MADDE 96- The written question is that lawmakers ask in writing questions to MPs, vice presidents and ministers to be answered in writing with a motion that does not include issues of personality or privacy, short, without justification or personal opinion. The written question motion is signed by only one MP and given to the presidency. You can't add documents to written question motions. The president publishes the motions he sees in accordance with the requirements of the Charter and sends them to the ministers with the relevant Vice President. MADDE 97 - The following questions are not accepted by the President: A) Matters that can be easily learned from another source; B) Its sole purpose is to provide consultation. MADDE 99-The answer to written questions is presented to the presidency by the vice president's or ministry's hand. The president will direct that answer to the question holder immediately. The answer is also added with the text of the question behind the report on the day of the President's or the next merger. The written questions will be answered in fifteen days at the latest from the date sent by the Vice President or the minister. Holidays and research also transfers to written questions, so 15 days of vacations and research begin. If the written questions are not answered during the duration of the written question motion, it will be declared on the list of papers that have not been answered, and it will be sent to the vice president or ministers. Article 100, questions from the president. This is also a matter for the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. MADDE 100- The President, the Presidential Court, members of the Presidential Court and the Council of Counsellors may be asked in writing about the activities of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. These questions are answered by the president or one of his presidential guardians. An arrangement has been made between the Fifth Amendment and the 96th and 100th Articles of the Civil Code. As with all the questions, I certainly hope that the ministers have a staff, members, or members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey who follow the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, or that they will share in this framework the issues of which our dear parliamentary friends have sincerely and with precision expressed about their territory. If they share it, it's possible that our fellow lawmakers will also be able to share it with members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly and with their own constituents, their territory. Since there are no questions in this process that we can answer, there's no way we can say anything about them. But I would like to thank the representatives of all political parties, especially during the talks of the Commission. Indeed, they endeavored to contribute. With this proposal, a request from the Traders and Artists Confederacy was issued according to the motion given by our fellow MPs. As a matter of fact, that request was approved by the majority of the Commission. During that period, we had a feeling that there would be a full-contact discussion of the public institutional institutions described in Article 135 of the Constitution. Without sharing this decision with political party groups, there has been a motion study of the political parties' leaders -- which is given to groups of political parties in our system -- by consultation with party groups, by thinking about it together -- with political parties -- which we can identify, a motion on public institutional institutions. As a matter of fact, all of the public institutional institutions established in this motion study are by law. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, you've made a very thorough statement. Here, wrap it up. I'm also trying to express the issues of the Commission. The issue regarding the individual property violation of all institutions will come to light because, let's say, in the Law of the Chamber of Rooms and Arts, in the Law of the Chamber of Bars, in the Law of Agriculture, in the Law of the Association of Agriculture, in the Law of Free Accounting Financial Advisors, in the Law on the Union of Ministers, in the Law of the Banks -- in the Law of the Union of Banks -- in which I now think -- it is possible for each of the Commission to make a difference, by the broad majority of the Commission; for the majority, there must be 14 MPs. As an EC PARTY group, we were 11 MPs because one of our fellow MPs was not found abroad and one of our friends was not found for health reasons. We've talked to other political parties, we've talked to the National Movement Party, they've got 1 lawmakers, 12 MPs. The commission needed 14 MPs to accept the motion. As far as I know, the political party groups have spoken. Dear friends, according to the 87th article of the Civil Charter, I believe the eighth joke is essential to the agreement of five political parties in order to offer a change in another article. This Civil Code has a different meaning in one way, but its applications have been revealed if five political parties have come together within the framework of the previous rules. The group's vice presidents have held consultations, talks on the matter. In fact, instead of 20 clauses, let's do a legal arrangement, instead of a general improvement with just one clause, in the form of a code law on the Constitution's code law on the laws defined in article 135, which can be a three-point clause, I think they've submitted the other two articles to the political parties, the Chamber of Business and Artists Association of Turkey and the Turkish Chambers and Stock Exchanges' Law, in order that we make an arrangement that will also mull the additional article 1 and 2. However, due to the lack of consensus of the five political parties, this arrangement was carried out by adding additional articles to the Law of the Chambers and Exchanges of Turkey and the Chamber of Businesses and Artists Association. If the political party groups get together and agree again, it's not that time has passed, but it's possible to do that on November 30th. I also want to thank the esteemed lawmakers for contributing to the General Assembly. Even though we don't share our friends' opinions, and we don't agree with their claims, their objections, and we don't agree with the Constitution, and we don't think that the issues such as violations of the Constitution or back-changing are true as a Commission, I say we respect their opinion. I wish the law would be a blessing. The issue here is not a special arrangement for anyone, person or institution, but an arrangement to remove the obstacle to people's ability to race. I thought I'd take a look at Law 298's background on the 7th Amendment, and I didn't find much history. There is a change in 1990, and there is an unreturnable arrangement in Law 298 of 1961, after resigning. Apparently, in 1990, the arrangement was made so that people could use their right to run, remove obstacles in front of them, use their democratic rights. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Thank you, Mr. President. SANAYI, TICARET, ENERGY, TABI EVIL EVIDENCES, INFORMATION AND TEKNOLOGY COMI COMI Let's wrap this up, Mr. President, so you've made your point. I'm finishing with a sentence, Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Now, in this framework, with an arrangement set in 1990, it's a job to give people who are using their democratic rights this opportunity. In this arrangement, the Chambers and Stock Exchange Association and the Union of Business and Artists have been given an opportunity for our friends to take these chances. I wish him luck. I'd like to thank the esteemed lawmakers for contributing to the Supreme Assembly. Even though Mr. Atakan was first in line, we didn't say his name because the system was wrongly hacked. Yes, Mr. Atakan?
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0375par0162	Thank you, Mr. President. I think we were in a work accident. When are you going to give up the custom of making a law free of basic lawmaking, unconstitutional, personal, custom-made laws? As a lawyer, I've been using this law-making process as an example. These practices should be taught as lessons in law schools. You're not choosing every public institution in the country, you're choosing the two professions you find close to you. Despite the negative opinion of the presidents of the occupational units you are trying to make, you are making changes to the election law by the TOBB and by the Book of Rooms and Stock Exchanges. You go around the Constitution and the law, and you cheat against the law. So how do you not make the law? You write the book of the law.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0374par0165	There are two motions on the 4th article, and I will process the motions according to the order of violation. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The Union of Rooms and Stock Exchanges and the Union of Turkey, which meets in 14 rows, and we offer and propose the amendment of Article 4 of the Law Against the Code of Rooms and Stock Exchanges to be changed in the following way. Tacettin Ridge Kazım Arslan Alpay Antmen Müzeyyen Sevkin Free Suzan Şahin MADDE 4- These laws are carried out jointly by the Minister of Justice, the Minister of Interior and the President. Does the commission agree with the motion? We don't agree, Mr. President. He wants a word about the fire in Adana, Congressman. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0376par0180	As the 170-capacity Martyr Koray Special Anadolu High School in our town of Fekeli sends my regrets to my fellow citizens, I express my satisfaction that the fire will soon be extinguished and there will be no casualties, I thank the authorities who are sensitive to the removal of the victims of our students. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0377par0182	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0378par0183	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0377par0185	Thank you, Mr. President. As for the fire disaster in Feke district of Adana, we have been informed by the Adana Governorate and the Fike Governorate of Turkey that there has been a fire disaster in the electrical cable to charge phones in the dorm where 80 of our girls are staying. As a result of the burning of a bed in a single room, children have been evacuated from the dorms and placed in nearby dorms, while some anxious families have carried their children homes in the villages. The governorship has also provided the services necessary to get from the village to its school. Adana Governor's Office and the Federal Government of Feke continue their investigation into the incident. Work will also be done to ensure that necessary measures are taken against possible risks. I'd like to report to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0379par0188	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0380par0189	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0379par0191	Thank you, Mr. President. Because of the fire at the girl's hostel in Feke district of Adana, I wish you well first and that there is no loss of life in this fire is our only consolation for now. If there is cause and cause of this fire, we expect mistakes and negligence to be illuminated as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0381par0195	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0382par0196	Let's make a promise to our Adana MP. Here you go, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0381par0199	And I would like to extend my condolences to my fellow Fake Martyr Koray for the fire at the Anadolu School Student Lodge. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0382par0204	Hatay MP Suzan Şahin wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0383par0207	Mr. President, distinguished members, I salute you all. Endless cases, unjust arrests, lengthy arrests, and most importantly, unresolved justice. We all know that Turkey is struggling with serious legal problems. This also reflects on international indexes. Turkey, ranked 59th in the overall ranking of the World Justice Project of Global Law Index in the 99-nation category, ranked 78th in the main rights category, 69th in the open state, 67th in order and security, 47th in the civil justice system. The basis of this grave picture is basic legal and legal problems in Turkey. In my country, where justice is just a woman's name, I'm going to talk about the problems of lawyers representing the right to defend the citizens' only refuge, the lawyers who want to be discredited. The chaos that begins in the profession of law enforcement continues. The real and practical problems of the country's legal state are directly affecting the world of lawyers. From the day the AKP came to power, opening university and faculty today has become an election show. He added young people not only to their professions, but only to their degrees, to the unemployed army, which, as in all professions, has reduced quality in the profession. Lawyers' jobs are shrinking day by day, and lawyers are getting poorer and poorer. Workers and young lawyers are struggling with economic difficulties. The lawyer who doesn't have money can't get medical attention. The rapid increase in the number of lawyers and the poorness of law school also diminishes lawyers' dignity and quality day by day. The lawyer is losing his rights. In this case, there is a lack of law when law enforcement and procedures outside lawyers need to be moved into the fields of lawyers or to develop new employment opportunities. There's an effort to narrow down the legal world financially. There are attacks on lawyers. They're trying to discredit the bar they're committed to. Admission to the practice of law enforcement and the title of law enforcement must be subject to the test. Lowering the quotas of law schools, increasing the quality of education, should be prevented from opening new universities. Numbers are enough to show the magnitude of the problem. There are about 110,000 registered, 15,000 paralegals, over 70,000 law students in the faculty. In five years, the number of lawyers will be more than 200,000. In court pencils, notary offices, bank offices, property offices, law school graduates are required to separate a certain number of staff. In this way, the job opportunities for unemployed graduates will be granted. In addition, the degree judges' seniority averages are extremely low, while the non-lawyer's agreement in punishment conflicts should be reversed immediately because the quality of the service has been affected by the wrong approach, which encourages unlawful mediation, and the error of the practice that prevents lawyers from being expert. The arrangement that allows judges to graduate from any faculty is a liability to both the safety of the profession and the legal security of our citizens, putting dynamite at the foundation of the legal state. This mistake must be returned immediately, but immediately. The low wages envisioned as a CMK lawyer, the high VAT, the highness of law enforcement fees, and the tax losses caused by foreign law firms to be involved in unfair competition have become the main problem of lawmakers. CMC fees should be raised to minimum wage, lawyers should not receive VAT from CMC fees, others should be reduced to less than 18% of VAT. Lawyers who offer public service should be granted green passports. Again, the additional indicators of lawyers serving in public should be equated with judges, and pension requirements should be the same as judges. It is an absolute fact that the fight for rule of law and independence of judiciary will contribute to law, independence of defence, law, law, and the democratisation of the country. It is the lawyer's priority to prevent emergency measures such as asylum in the problems of labour lawyers, to take responsibility for the issues of labour lawyers, to address the enormous increase in the number of lawyers, to say "stop" to narrow down the number of professions, to bring the problems of young lawyers into action, such as tax exemption and micro-credit practices, to cut off the bonds of health care and social benefits, to take professional solidarity to the highest level, to regain professional dignity by providing the best conditions for the judiciary to lawyers.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0384par0219	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0383par0220	I am, Mr. President. In order to address these problems, steps must be taken to improve them with urgency, to transform the practice of law enforcement into dignity. It is the Ministry of Justice's job to create new jobs for lawyers and reduce their expenses, with the awareness that the economic problems of lawyers and their dignity are directly linked. Today, the Justice Department must immediately come up with an action plan to address the problems of lawyers whose numbers have reached 110,000. It must not be forgotten that there is no defense, there is no judgment. By the way, why isn't the right to the Chambers and Stock Exchange defined in other rooms? That's not fair. We never accept personal rights, anyone or anyone. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0385par0225	I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The main Turkish Association of Chambers and Stock Exchanges (2/1287) that is currently in session, and I propose and recommend the amendment of Article 4 of the Law Proposal to the Amendment of the Rooms and Stock Exchanges Act, as follows. Article 4- These laws are carried out by the President. Zeki Hakan Sıdlı Metin Ergun Ümit Dikbayır Imam Hüseyin Filiz Ayhan Altıntaş Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Mersin MP Zeki Hakan Sıdlı who wants to talk about the motion. Here you go, Mr. Sedal.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0386par0239	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Before I begin my speech, I celebrate the 24th of November Teacher's Day of Teachers of all our teachers, and remember the Chief Teacher Ataturk with mercy and gratitude. Unfortunately, our teachers in charge of building the future are desperate for their future. In our country, non-assigned teachers suffer victimism, and the appointed teachers face difficult times in their duties with the contract teacher model. To ensure the welfare of our teachers is one of the greatest investments in the future. Happy teacher means happy student. We'll always be there for our teachers in the right fight. Congressmans, the laws are not personal, they are general and they are inclusive, but what comes to us is neither general nor inclusive. This law is a typical example of the law. Ad is specific to the purpose, meaning intentional, which tells us exactly the situation we're in. There are 56 legal proposals in the Commission where the offer is passed, and suddenly you're taking it up on the agenda. You're making a personal law? At the bottom of the shop, electricity, diesel costs are skyrocketing, and he can't even pay taxes, let alone his tax debt. One day and night, someone announces a concordato, and the tradesman sinks even deeper, and it's over. The last three or five employees he could run are out of work. We don't all see the economic crisis, we don't hear it, and when you say I don't know it, it seems like you're trying to make a jet-speed law for someone who's chosen, who's arranged, who's not for everyone. Who are these people? Who are you making this law for? Those who bring this law here have to explain these chosen ones to the Turkish public. Congressmans, it's obvious you can't trust these chosen ones. If we don't win the election, we don't have room president. The mayor, who acts in fear, can't be a politician. This job is about courage, it's about courage. Let him stay in his house, afraid of losing, not running. Precious lawmakers have the right to run for office in the local and general elections. GOOD PARTY is the greatest supporter of this right. He can be a candidate if he wants to be, but it's unethical for those who can't be nominated or elected, to return to their duties, like amorty. The experience in the rooms is beneficial to politics, but it's not safe for politicians to move forward and back to political institutions, and it's not fair. Influence of daily political disputes reduces the neutrality of these organizations, reduces its function and efficiency. And how are they going to run and then come back and criticize politics? Perhaps the members won't take kindly to the director, who they voted for without knowing his political opinion, seeing his elected office as a political step. In that case, the legitimacy of the returnee will be questioned. The path back after the resignation of a chosen member must be re-elected. I'm asking you, what are we gonna do? AK PARTY's shop, the Republican People's Party's Association, will be the stock exchange of the GOOD PARTY? We're going to politicalize the organizations, make them dysfunctional? Aren't these organizations already aiming to increase the solidarity of our business people, our tradesmen, without regard for party, ideology and beliefs? We're going to stand up and organize, and we're going to split up a party; what kind of law would that be, would that be? Last week, TOBB issued a statement saying to withdraw this offer. The previous speakers explained their details over and over again. I'm asking you, if this law, if the TOBB doesn't want it, who does it come for? If this law, unity, does not represent the head of the room, the business world, the tradesman, the nation, whose small interests does it represent? On the national scale, the highest authorities are partying, and now our local institutions are becoming political, partying. I think the AK PARTY is taking down the plurality of our country from top to bottom. These are the ambitions to keep the opposition from breathing; reflections of the dream of taking over all institutions and organizations of the state, creating a single voice.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0387par0249	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0386par0250	Just as we're opposed to one man in the nationals, we're also opposed to the party room, the president of the party union. With all my feelings, I hope you'll reconsider your proposal of the law, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0387par0253	Now, I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Before voting on the proposal, İstanbul MP İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu will address the color of the game as required by Article 86 of the Interior Charter. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0388par0258	Mr. President, it is the law that unites us as MPs of the Court, the valued MPs, separate political movements and separate political groups, and first of all, the 81st Article of the Constitution. We have sworn allegiance to the rule of law and to the Constitution under Article 81 of the Constitution. The 11th article right next to it is the binding and advantage of the constitution. This article is binding all state organs, particularly the legislature. Therefore, we define legislation as the main, only organ that applies the Constitution. So, what's the situation with the public institutional institutions? They are the institutions organized according to the Constitution Article 135, and the main concept that unites them is that they are public corporate individuals. If there are 20 organisations established by law today, they are subject to Article 135, and the main concept that unites them is that they are public corporate individuals. Being a public corporate person means organizations with their budgets, organs, debts, and autonomy against political power. They are again able to achieve their objectives defined by the Constitution and its laws in the measure of autonomy, and they are able to produce services at that extent. Now, when we look at this proposal of the law, a law is passed from 20 organisations, 20 organisations, for only 2 things. One, I wonder why this law is being passed, and there's a good reason why we haven't discussed it in two days. Which social need, which has not been established. Why is this distinction being made, 18 to the side, 2 to the side, and no good reason has been set. I'm a member of the bar. If there was a bar here, I'd say no, so as long as there's no other 19 I'd say there's no bar. In this regard, there is a serious distinction between each two categories -- 18 public institutions -- and 18 public corporate institutions -- and 18 public officials and two public officials -- for no good reason whatsoever. This is contrary to the 10th Amendment of the Constitution, which has been repeatedly spoken. But beyond that, as of nature, the Constitution is contrary to such a regulation, in terms of democracy and law -- some members have emphasised democracy -- based on certain consistency within the law... As a result, democracy means value if the individual is protecting its freedom, or if the candidate out of an organization was voted for because he was neutral, then maybe when he entered politics, he won't be voted for in the same vote; then how can you assume that the will of the member of the organization is valid again? As a result, democracy is based on individual freedom. Besides, today, the president of the bar and the head of the room -- if this proposal becomes legal -- they won't enter the political competition on equal terms, because one of them will have his own organization behind him -- he has legal security, and if not elected, he will return -- but the other will completely step away from the presidency. In this regard, although reason has been given, this is not related to Law 298. Even if it is said, it is contrary to the last joke of Article 67.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0389par0262	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0388par0263	I am, Mr. President. In this regard, we don't have time to engage in any other irregularities here, it's already been repeated over and over again. But the idea of law and democracy shouldn't be so contrary to each other in this House because there are Constitutional laws that unite us. My suggestion is, as always, if there's a social need, I'll make an arrangement for 20. To avoid saying yes, there is no need to be a lawyer, there is no need to be a deputy; enough to read and read the Constitution. Moreover, we are MPs who have sworn to the rule of the Constitution. Of course, it's not possible to say yes to an anti-constitutional arrangement, but beyond that, it's a violation of the Constitution. I think we should avoid violations of the Constitution. We, as a group, will certainly avoid this, but my advice as a lawyer would be that all members avoid violations of the Constitution and violations of the Constitution. That's my advice. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0390par0268	The offer is...
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0391par0271	Before we vote, we have a call request for a sufficient number of meetings.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit05spe0390par0272	Congressmans, before the entire proposal is voted, there is a motion for roll call, and I will now meet this request. We will first identify the 20 MPs who have filed the motion: Mr. Special, Mr. Karabat, Mr. Aydoğan, Mr. Koksal, Mr. Kaboğlu, Mr. Sumer, Mr. Polat, Mr. Sertel, Mr. Ceylan, Mr. Kaya, Mr. Zeybek, Mr. Hangioğlu, Mr. Khanççç, Mr. Karaca, Mr. Gunt, Mr. Çelebi, Mr. Jüllüllü, Mr. Bankyoğlu. I'll give you three minutes to roll call, and I'll start. [[Checked with electronic device]] There's enough for a meeting. I submit the full offer to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. The offer has been accepted and legalized. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0390par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will begin talks with Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) MP Ilyas Şeker and 6 MPs in the 2nd place, offering the Law and the Environmental Commission Report to change the Environmental Law and some Laws. Commission? He's in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with 15 rows. Members of parliament, according to the decision taken, this proposal will be considered the basic law under Article 91 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the proposal will be discussed in sections after all negotiations have been completed and passed on to the articles, and the clauses in the chapters will be voted separately. Hasan Subaş, Antalya MP, on behalf of the Good PARTY Group, who has all the talks on the proposal.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0392par0009	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Good PARTI Group regarding Environmental Law Number 15 and Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Critics at the Commission meeting have been on the 15th, 16th, 20th and 27th Articles. I'm going to make a brief point and try to explain about the environment, about a lack of carelessness in Antalya, and the catastrophes that have resulted in it. This bag of legislation and bag of laws has become a custom. We see a lot of things when we put together the positive negative, both the carelessness of lawmaking and the carelessness of the environment. When we looked at the first article in this law, the removal of plastic bags and bringing a cost, the use of such substances was considered to be increasingly reduced. While we are viewed as positive matter, a change was made when we immediately looked at the 20th article: The way to build a renewable power plant in the wet areas was also opened by adding wet areas to the shores. So now, we've already wasted our wetlands for years on drying work, and we've created a serious threat by putting wetlands in it, while we've been trying to rehydrate and reinvent bird populations there, re-integrating life. So on the one hand, when we're trying to show environmental sensitivity with the first article, we're also highlighting our insensitivity about the environment with the 20th article. When we look at the 15th article, we give consulting firms the authority to oversee public construction according to the expertise of scientific architects and engineers. As soon as we look at Article 128 of the Constitution, the main and permanent tasks required by public services are seen by officers and other public officials. In this law, however, we are outside the Article 128 of the Constitution of the 15th Amendment, opening the way for private sector control in the construction of the public. As soon as we look at 16, we see that the contractors are classified. We see that the Department of Environment and Urbanism classified contractors doing the public's job, which, in fact, could lead to unfair competition between contractors, and we have concerns that it could lead to favours by public authority. But when we pay attention to the 27th article that follows, we see that a lot of work on urban transformation has resulted in frustration, and unfortunately the contractors have quit. In Istanbul, we see and live with regret that an important urban transformation study has been interrupted. Here, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism is looking for a solution. How can we find a solution? Yeah, that sounds like insurance. So the insurance system can be developed in order to protect the rights of the owners of the land that are victims of urban transformation. Even though it is said, then there is no explanation for what to do with those who are facing the past. However, we think that by paying back insurance and rent, victims can be avoided. I'd like to add Antalya to the ideatepe immediately. During my time in the Districts of Antalya asset and Kepez under my time, we had made it possible for thousands of people to take possession of the slums of the slums of the slums from the slums under the Law of Prevention, and we had worked for years to do so, and we had not been able to give the deed of 1,300 acres of land to the Great City, in order to bring the Great City to the Great City, and in the thousands of acres like it, we had been able to give the deeds of the rightful owners of this entity and the 1,300 acres of Kepezlt. But tens of years later, instead of giving property to the owners of the municipality today, they began a project of 20,000 dwellings, even though they had 34,000 rights, just like TOKI dwellings. In thirty-six months, they brought in a condition to give away the rights owners' apartments, but it's been almost thirty months, but it still hasn't made it to half of them. We're also concerned that there might be an urban transformation malfunction there, and it's important to bring in the insurance system and pay the rent of the citizens there in less than 36 months, and we think that the state and the Grand City must take the necessary measures in order for it to be done quickly. Dear lawmakers, we often experience such things: Mr. President can go out and talk about vertical construction or horizontal construction in our cities. Immediately after that, our Minister of Environment and Urbanism can call him a parallel, or vertical construction or horizontal construction in our cities. The city plans (A) group, however, are made by expert city planners who have a report card, and the presidents or Ministers of Environment and Urbanism do not have to understand city plans. They don't need to talk about things they don't know about and they need expertise. Because vertical construction or horizontal construction, depending on the location of that region, according to the position of the land, the sea sees or needs to see the sea, social hardware, all of this is calculated, the wind and its position is planned by experts, and the infrastructure is calculated while the region is planned and the infrastructure is calculated both by its density plan and by its housing level, and by those experts, where the city planners, where they are made horizontally. For him, it can be vertical in some areas, but in some areas it can also be horizontally or horizontally vertically mixed. This is not the area of the ministers' expertise, but it is the area of urban planners, the location of the land and infrastructure are very important in this regard. Now, when we look at the regulations made in Articles 15 and 16, I can relate them to Article 27. Because the Ministry of the Environment wants to get a direct mandate in areas that have a problem with urban transformation in Article 27: outside of the Contraction Act, the contractor wants to give the job directly. Then we can clearly understand that the control authority in Article 15 is in the private sector and that the classification of contractors in Article 16 is the infrastructure of Article 27. So the 15th, 16th, and 27th provisions of the law have been made to ensure the comfort here. I also wish that the logic of TOKI be abandoned because we see our cities devastated by very high-rise, multi-intensity buildings, and that there is serious visual ugliness and environmental disaster in cities. But now for that, horizontal construction is not the answer to those vertical and dense structures. Because in horizontal urbanism, you can't find social donuts, you can't find sports, or if you need sea vision, you may not be able to see the sea. So, let the experts decide. There have been great disasters in Antalya because of their environmental insensitivity, carelessness, and carelessness. As you know, setting up a stove is appropriate from the General Directorate of Mines. It is sufficient with the opinion and according to the City Council's report in Antalya, 1,070 quarry licenses have been issued. Since these were made without a CED report... So, how do you do it without a CED report? We don't need a CED report for 25 hectares. Since there is no need for a CED report, each license can be obtained in as many places as possible, and when it does not exceed 25 hectares, it is only available in those areas to be licensed to operate. For this reason, we have a very valuable tourist area, such as in hundreds of stoves operating in Antalya and operating areas, and on top of that, at 2,000 altitudes -- where their homes are located -- five quarryes are both disrupting roads and covering the tar forests with rubble, and the TÜBITAK Observatory there is unable to do its duty. Cancer cases, agricultural inadequacies are very serious; again, studies show that asthma and lung disease have increased. So, why are these quarryes built around here? Because his path is ready, his water, his electricity is ready. The contractor prefers these kinds of areas by contractors who want to get a quarry license because the settlements are very valuable forest areas. As is the waste of agricultural areas, serious health problems can be caused because there are many living people in the area. We had a hero who fought these things, Ali Ulvi Grandnoutçu, and his wife Aysin Hanım were my dear, dear friends. These were victims of a massacre, you know. These people were slaughtered last year in May 2017. This friend of ours was an environmental hero, and without a CED report, he fought hundreds of mines one-on-one, making decisions to stop the execution. But for $50,000, they were both murdered by a murderer, both by a husband and wife, and the man who killed them was killed some time later in prison, and we all know that. We lost our friends because of the carelessness of the environment, the insensitivity, the catastrophes, the massacre. There's also Mount Dur, you've heard of it. The sacred mountain of Dur, which our citizens consider sacred, in the village of Tekke the Apple, is the holy mountain which Abdal Moses Tekkesi put his back on. According to the account, the mountain that returns with him is called the mountain that makes semah. This mountain is also licensed as a quarry. Our Alevi citizens have had walks, protests, and almost many of our citizens in the village of Tekke have been thrown into prison. They still go to jails, they get fined, they lie in order because they can't pay the fine, they take turns, they protest, because they have these quarryes in the sacred mountains. Since contractors choose the available route, electricity, water areas, because the CED report is not required, hundreds of quarry, Antalya's precious farmland, forest forests, hundreds of years of old cedar forests, and close with rubble piles. This is still being watched, and the loss of our friends and the slaughter of our friends are not enough examples. And I don't think there's any need to mention the damage it does to agriculture, the damage it does to tourism, animalism, beekeeping, any kind of activity. But these carelessnesss are also seen in this law. There's a lot of positive, positive, negative things in the bag, but we can see that it was prepared in a hurry. Just as we're trying to keep the living creature alive in our wetlands, where there's a bird heaven, where there's a shelter, we're also going to be disrupting bird things in those areas by building plants there. Speaking of the village of Tekke, I'd like to talk about the lakes right there in Elmeli. There are hunting and Karagöl; Karagöl is at the lowest denim level of Elma, where there are very serious living beings, birds, and other habitats that can be revived, but Elmalı is the most pitted place in the world, and immediately within it is Lake Avlan. Thankfully, this year Lake Avlan has been registered as a wet basin, but Lake Avlan is virtually impossible to hold water because the country has always tried to drain the lower jeans of Karagöl. Because of Karagöl's ten thousand acres of land in the 50s, farmers have been asking for bread for years because of the claim that Karagöl gave to the land. Since he said, "We want bread for years, we want bread for the land you sell." For decades, State Waterworks has been working on drying, trying to protect the flood. What this means is that the Apple Plain, a 300 - acre plain, is to be dried out, where there is a disaster of the environment.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0393par0028	Get it together, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0392par0029	The ten thousand acres of all water basins are being drained by the draining paradigm that has been drying for decades by the State Waterworks, stopping the veins that feed Avlan. Even though the Avlan Lake is made of water basins, it cannot be fed, and the bottom waters of the 300 thousand acres of the plain are drawn, and the climate of Elmal is changing, and every year, step-steps into an environmental disaster. For months, we've worked, we've worked, we've tried, we've tried, we've stopped the logic of dsi dehydration and extremity, and we use it to water millions of cubic metres of water, to feed the environment, to support the water supply area, like huntlan, and to try to raise the living being there as a water basin. Hopefully, we'll be able to do it with a fight, but I've tried to get your attention about the quarry. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me, Mr. President. The quarry is doing serious damage. So in the coming days, we're going to try to draw the attention and sensitivity of our House by making a motion to investigate in our House.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0394par0033	Congressman, you're going to talk tomorrow, you're going to tell me the rest tomorrow, and we're out of time.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0395par0034	Let's wrap it up, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0392par0035	I've brought it to your attention. I must have pushed your patience by being 20 seconds late. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0396par0039	In the name of the National Movement Party Group, he is a member of the Adana MP.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0397par0041	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I ask God's mercy to our miners who died in the mines of Zonguldak Kilimli. I also wish patience for his family and for our nation. Yes, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Party for Action on the Environmental Law and the Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. Congressmans, I'd like you to listen to me very carefully, because this is about the environment. If we don't show the environment the respect it deserves, the only problem we're going to have is just holding on to life. Yes, take good care of the earth; you have inherited it from your ancestors, and you have borrowed it from your children. It is well explained by the native Americans, known for their respect for nature. Unfortunately, due to economic concerns, we need to know that when we do not take the necessary measures, we will be able to leave our responsibility to leave a clean and healthy environment for future generations, which we have ignored as a problem for later generations. The rapid urbanization and population growth in parallel with technological developments and industrialisation are rapidly increasing the pressures of human activity on the environment both in our country and around the world. In this process, the expansion of production and marketing activities has made the use of more intensive natural resources inevitable, while the waste, along with the increasing consumption trend, has also grown to be a threat to the environment and human health due to its quantity and harmful content. While thinking that the Zero Waste Project, which has been given in recent days, would be positive for our country and its economy, it is necessary for all citizens and citizens to stand behind it and support it sincerely. So I think this project should go beyond a commercial study, and the steps that need to be taken should be taken with determination. As in every phase of the creation of recycling facilities as part of the Zero Waste Project, local governments also have great responsibilities. Recycling is also very important for the country's economy to create new jobs, as it will provide significant profits for its economy. In addition, I want it to be known that implementation of the Zero Waste Project is a matter of consciousness and education above all, and that our ministries have taken great responsibility in this regard. It is necessary for the creation of the needed consciousness to be done in the workforce and in our country, especially in public institutions, to make it available to all households. In such matters, our Ministry of National Education is also under great obligation to instill the consciousness necessary for generations. It is of great importance to collect, categorize, evaluate, and reintegrate waste, which is a fact of human life. If waste is collected with the right techniques, the collection costs can be reduced by 50 percent. The economic contribution, given the fact that the per capita amount of waste per capita in our country is over 1 kilogram and that the annual collection cost for Istanbul alone is 220 million dollars, is very serious. It should also be known that energy imports, especially the energy sector, will be reduced to billions of dollars in revenue for the country's economy. At the coming point in the world, some countries have discovered the economic dimension of recycling, causing them to import garbage. From Scandinavian countries, Sweden imports domestic waste from Norway, Britain and Italy, because it can't produce the necessary household waste in the country of biogasm, transport and electricity as a result of the processing of domestic waste with modern techniques. Sweden considers 99% of the household waste collected to be biofuel, and 1% to agricultural fertilizer. The urban transformation, which is also among our substances, is important for our country to have an opportunity to be in both the earthquake zone and in the recycling field. The concrete, glass, copper, iron, and wood can be used in recycling. It is also known that new dwellings, along with urban transformation, contribute to our country's economy. We want to focus on environmental and urbanism in urban transformation, not on personal interests, but on the needs of the city and the inhabitants of the city in the coming years; on the transition to horizontal urbanism, not vertical, and on planning for the creation of green, habitable, living cities. While I'm talking about recycling and economic dimensions, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to address the most important issue for us and our future generations, the impact of our environment on our health. Plastic, oil, and chemical waste, although initially plastic bags, are the most important things that threaten our health. There's been a lot of damage to nature by increasing industrialization in the world. Among the behaviours that shorten the environment's life span is the use of plastic bags. These bags are widely used to reduce controlled use, recycle and encourage the use of alternative products. The use of plastic bags, which entered human life with the 1970s, has been recklessly increased throughout the world -- especially in our country today -- because the cost of use is so cheap. At this point, it is thought that around 5 trillion plastic bags are produced every year in the world, while 160 million bags are used every second, while only 1 percent of the used bags are reassembled. Looking at these figures, we expect human health and other living creatures that we share the world with to live in a healthier environment. We see enormous measures in the world, especially in the plastic sector. Only Turkey uses 45 billion bags each year, which means 450 bags per person. Today, the amount of plastic bags found in the ocean has passed the surface area of the European continent. Because the bags are so thin, they are separated into tiny particles from the waves, and after a while they become micro-plastics. After all, these fish eat these plastics, and we eat these fish. In the end, these microparts also pass through the food chain into the human body. These microparts are very harmful to our health, causing many diseases, especially cancer, so immediate measures must be taken. The use of plastic bags cannot be banned, unfortunately, because there are those who produce it, and this sector is an important livelihood. And in this case, perhaps all we can do will be deterrent measures. Unfortunately, the creeks became impenetrable. Back in the day, our mothers and fathers were acting in line with nets and market bags, and even more environmentally, with zero waste logic, but now we're using a vicious bag. The time it takes for plastic bags to break down in nature is four hundred years at sea and eight hundred years on land. In the process of decay, all harmful materials are already transferred to soil and water. In the fields where people work, this also affects products, causing health - harmful situations to arise. Plastic bags, which have also become more toxic and smaller petro-polymers, are caused by light, not only by a single generation, but by a long-term disaster that will affect the food chain for a very long time. Recent media reports, based on a study by our university, Çukurova University, mentioned the existence of micro plastics primarily from plastic bags, even in the salts we use at our tables. So it's easy to say that at this point, it's all gone. According to many medical studies, the effects of materials in these bags that we use during shopping in increasing cases of cancer are said to be extremely large. Food stored in plastic bags interacts with very serious chemicals, and the negative impact on human life is also present here. However, the destruction of plastic bags, which we have managed to collect only 1 percent, appears to be a different problem. The gases released during its destruction also damage the environment as much as the use of the bags. And one of the reasons why our lungs are destroyed is the fires caused by the plastic bags we carelessly throw around. The greenhouse absorbing of the heat from the transparent ones of these bags thrown around causes forest fires. Moreover, the production of plastic bags uses petroleum derivatives, called "thermoplastics," which is a major threat to the environment and human health. At the same time, plastic bags left to nature are caused by animals and fish who think they're food, and by their digestive system decomposing, they die. When we sum up the issues I'm talking about above, it's a multinational mobilization mission for our future generations, the immediate reduction of the use of plastic bags, the collection of used bags for recycling instead of destruction, and the incentive for use of products that are made for peace with nature. On the other hand, it is also important for our environment and health that vegetable oils and motor oils are collected and not released into the wild to be converted. 1 litre of oil transferred to the Canalization is contaminated by 1 million litres of water. The water that we're talking about is essential for the rest of our lives, which is the drinking water we drink, the drinking water we use, our rivers, our lakes, our seas, and even the water in our dams. The herbal oils we use in our uncycled and released foods are 25 percent of water pollution. It should also be known that biodiesel, produced from herbal fats, is important for oil to release 45 percent less carbon than diesel fuel, keep the air clean and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It should not be forgotten that our country is on the side of international agreements, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, Kyoto Protocol, the Vienna Convention on Protection of the Ozon Plate and the Montreal Protocol, and is very important in the process of recycling and investments to meet the conditions promised in protocols. Another issue is the recycling of pet bottles and glass bottles. Construction of the Zero Waste Project is being carried out across Turkey in terms of recycling glass. The fact that glass bottles don't go to the trash and they're used as raw materials also saves a lot of energy. Cam industrialists say that the silica used in production, which is sand, is taken from abroad. Silika is being melted into glass in ovens. If the energy we spend on this raw material is 10 units of money, then the energy that we use when the glass is melted and reused for recycling is 1 or 2 units. Thus, there is a significant reduction in costs, both for the environment and for the economy. So it's very important that the glass bottle be collected with the deposit system. It's another issue that's important to manage the garbage that's being collected. The amount of garbage in Istanbul alone found 22,000 tonnes per day. These 22,000 tons of garbage must be managed. 80 per cent of the current costs from municipalities' budgets are being spent collecting, moving and moving garbage. The methane gas from the storage of these dumps has a negative effect on the environment. Gas to the atmosphere also causes climate changes. So there are serious problems both in its environmental direction and in its economic direction. At this point, we need to design a new system and take serious measures for our future generations to take in a healthier, cleaner air to breathe, a cleaner water to drink, and a cleaner soil to consume. The wildlife is at the top of important elements for a clean and healthy environment. We too have to respect the environment that we live in as humans and all the creatures that make up this environment. We must respect all living creatures and their rights, domestic or savage. It would be best for us to respect the wildlife that is narrowed down by the investments that we have invested in and to increase our civilization and comfort, at least to take measures to sustain their lives. Depending on developing technology, transportation is easier with highways, but on the other hand, these roads are linear and continuous, creating barriers on wildlife that are difficult to overcome in some places. The highway and fast train lines reduce the size of suitable habitats for wildlife species, and also the level of infrastructure, gutters, bankers, fences, and dams have made habitats unreachable because of barrier effects, leading populations into isolation. It should not be forgotten that it is our duty to create transit spaces for these creatures divided by land, iron, and so on, and to prevent them from crossing these routes uncontrollably, and to protect them from the negative effects of these paths. In places where important transit routes for wildlife intersect with highways, the risk of collision between traffic vehicles and wild animals increases, human, animal deaths, injuries, and material damage. When necessary measures are not taken, the animals' movement, particularly the wildlife corridors of the highways, especially the rare animal deaths and the loss of key habitat species and population density. For example, according to police headquarters data, 914 was the accident of 702 animals in the first nine months of 2018 in 2017. The construction of wildlife transit structures has become standard in many parts of the world, which contributes to normalisation of natural wildlife crossings, which are restricted by roads, and thus to the preservation of biodiversity. To protect the wildlife and wildlife in its natural habitat, drivers need to be warned and be aware that the area they pass through will not be destroyed by natural-living braids. Dear lawmakers, there are so many words to be said about the environment, but there's only one thing I want to emphasize: we need to develop the consciousness needed at the point of conservation, this is our first responsibility. Our second responsibility will be to transfer the awareness of protecting this environment to others. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0398par0071	Turkey's most important subject, the environment, is being discussed. Especially what Mr. Subaş, the Congressman, says is very good. I think it would be better if our group presidents had caught up with that watch while we had TV coverage, and we talked about this environment thing.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0399par0072	Mr. President, let's continue tomorrow.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0398par0073	Oya Ersoy, İstanbul MP on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0400par0075	I salute our General Assembly. Yes, I have now made a commitment on behalf of the HDP Group to express our views on the Environmental Law and the Law Proposal for Changes in Some Laws. First of all, yes, at this hour, the debate has been expressed by Mr. President. There have been so many changes so far about such an important proposal for the future of this country. Again, we are faced with a bag of legislation, and we are here to add one more amendment to the changes that have been made in the Law on the Environmental Law, the Development Act, and the Transformation of Areas Under Disasters. All the changes that have been made so far have not been enough, and we are still trying to make new arrangements. Because all of these arrangements are at the center of our motives, at the center of the ruling party's motives, the need for corporations. Those companies don't get enough of looting and looting for more profits. Therefore, there are constant changes needed for them to make more profit. Naturally, all these arrangements you've made, including these and others before, are damage to the public, harm to nature, damage to ecology. Therefore, we argue that this proposal of the law should be rejected, and we will tell you one by one why we are against it. Now, what makes you think this law proposal is for corporations? I'm taking it out on the general basis of your proposal of the law. You say: "These changes have been made and done in line with the growing sector and the economy. " You have already made your intentions clear at the beginning, and we will continue to read the rest of them with that intention. As we defend this proposal of law, we would like to hear the answers to our questions: Why can the environment and nature of an environmental law offer not be the subject? As you know, we have taken on various obligations by signing many international environmental and ecology contracts. How much do you take into account when you're preparing these proposals for the law? Or do you bring these arrangements to avoid the obligations of international contracts? Congressmans, we humans are part of nature, and we have the right to live in a habitable environment and an ecological system. It's not nature itself that destroys our right to live, it's us humans and the systems we build. At the end of every project started with the concept of sustainability, we live in an environment where it becomes a concept of continuous growth. So, I ask you, who are you talking about and how much bigger? Why, on the other hand, does your constant ambition to grow make the lives of the people unsustainable? Is it the duty of us lawmakers here to facilitate the business of investors or to protect the interests of the people we represent, the natural assets of the country? So far, we're all paying for what power has done to make it easier for investors, as a country. For example, the study of three thermal plants established in Mughla found that these plants caused 45,000 early deaths between 1983 and 17 years. In addition, are you aware that there are 46 thousand others who have been treated for heart vessels and respiratory disease? When you cut down millions of trees, build a highway in the middle of the most precious forests, bury the city centers in concrete, and try to satisfy your endless need for energy, have you ever asked yourself, what cost do you take? Let's talk about your castle, Rize, while you people try to paint their gardens. I ask the representatives of Rizeli: have you heard that trees in the forest in Storm Valley have dried up in the forest, which is the only old forest in our country? Behold! Here are (the fruits of) the palm-trees that grow dry. And why is that? Do you know that this is because of the fungus that spread throughout the area during the transport of coal imported from Siberia? Because you've issued a regulation regarding the inspection of ships loaded with Siberian coal that docked at the ports of Tripoli and Rize. It's because the ships can't be inspected enough now, after you've rushed them out of the cities, again, like today, so that the ships can't wait for them to unload their cargo. Congressmans, let's move on to the most important clause of this law proposal, Article 18. In this article, it is said that renewable energy sources can be created in the area of scarcity and fillings. Where will these renewable energy sources be formed? On the estates of public and treasure. For whom? For investors. Why would it be created? So they can make their investments easier and faster. Congressmans, 1,865 kilometers of our country's coast, a total of 8,592km [8,592 km] long, have been identified as a containment area. About 3,000 species of plants and animals live in this conservation area. Now, with this offer, you're saying: let's open up this 22 percent area that we're protecting. You're building projects to strengthen marine and coastal protected areas, and you're opening the way for areas that need to be protected. What kind of contradiction is that? With this material, our country's sea areas, shores, lakes, artificial lakes are opened as a renewable energy source. How? For example, you can go and put solar panels as a renewable energy field on Lake Akşehir. So you can think that you're going to benefit from the evaporation of water, and you're going to produce more renewable energy. Can you imagine what would happen to living creatures and plants that live in the lake and around it as a result of the loss of contact with the sun? Did you ever think about what would happen if the water stopped evaporating? Here, here, the water cycle is for you; this is the schematic. They show us that in middle school. See, rainwater gets into the ground, goes to the lakes and the sea through streams and underground resources, and then evaporates back into the sky and returns as rain. Now, if you stop this evaporation, don't you actually stop the rain? In short, if you make this law, the lake will no longer have yeast, and then Lake Akşehir, Lake Eber, Lake Seyfe, Lake Avlan, Lake Uulabat, Lake Manyas, and many lakes that I can't even count will be threatened by the institution. Already, these lakes are seriously threatened by the wrong industrial policies and agricultural policies that have been monitored so far. Here, take a look at the Black Sea coast. We're still paying for a beach road project. The Black Sea people are paying for it. Every year we lose our people in floods, our homes suffer. Congressmans, open the law proposal in front of you and please, read it again. Don't forget the plague of your decision here is too great. Now you're going to say: don't do it, don't do it. How will this country develop, how will it be invested? We discussed it at commission meetings. That's the problem with all of us, the problem with all of us, we can discuss it, but it's not important enough that we have to take steps without calculating the effects of nature and humans. I mean, it's not as important as the future of the country. I mean, as they say, what good is billions of money, fortune, if I don't have health? So we say, "What's the point when you don't get as much as you want, as much as you want, as long as you don't eat the perfumed tomato out of the garden, and you don't see the good sunny days, and all the creatures in this country have the right to live, plants, animals? So it's up to us to think of public and public benefits first. Congressmans, during the AKP's rule, it's time to say that no matter how many laws, regulations, decrees were passed, there was no skip, but it's time to say "dur." I'm asking you to put your hats in front of you. At first, we have international contracts in many areas that concern climate, forest, sea and wetlands, biodiversity, ecology, carbon emissions, actually environmental and ecology. The purpose of these contracts is the use and protection of the environment and nature, but you've usually done the use part, and you've always ignored the protection part. For example, we have a richness to be jealous of in terms of biodiversity, and we've been bragging about it for years, but you're the ones who brought our wealth into the rain of international rogue corporations. Congressmans, we face significant problems such as climate crisis, desertification, increased saltiness in agricultural soil, and the failure of agricultural activities, the decline of biodiversity. We're here today, and as if that wasn't enough, we're discussing the opening of a small amount of land to invest. Please, come, let us all remove this article, the 18th article, from this proposal of the law. As for another matter, it is intended to build facilities, markings and information on highways that pass through wildlife habitats. It's not clear what they mean by "Tesis" in this material, so we'll be opening the way for improper construction in the containment areas if this material passes. Again, you envisioned harmonising the plan of development and environmental order with the Placement Strategy Plan. Again, it's going to happen again, but I'm afraid it's also subjective investors. Compliance with the local Strategy Plan is basically a restructuring of development and environmental plans according to investors. Another clause is that the control of the structures that will be made or carried out by public institutions and institutions is envisioned by a service acquisition agreement, which means you're privatizing control. Again, a similar question: What is meant by the consulting firm that will conduct these inspections? Is a contractor a firm? We're gonna have the company who built the building check the integrity of the building? Congressmans, we're living in a crisis in the deteriorating environment and biosphere. Yeah, well, let's not forget that we'll pay a heavy price if we can invest in it. You can describe the benefits of your mega-projects that you want to rush into and so forth in your proposals of law, but this project has vital consequences, you can't ignore them. These projects have never been completed in the foreseeable time, nor have they ever been done in the foreseeable cost. Of course, in addition to economic costs, environmental and social costs may sometimes be incalculable. The third airport, the port project, the Green Road Project, the Izmir Bay Pass Highway Project, the JESEs, the Canal Istanbul Project, the Seagull Project, the Halic Project, increases the social consequences of your mega projects, including the public and the public's benefit. The international rogue corporations you've given these projects to are staring at every penny in our pocket, remember that. For example, the Italian company Astaldi declared concordato in Italy, but we also have the third airport, many roads and mega projects. So we'll pay the firm that went down in Italy with a ten-year buy-in guarantee. So what are you going to do when you say I can't make enough money on this bridge? None of your mega projects are domestic and national, so don't fool each other or the people. The bridge we don't cross, the money we pay for the highway we don't use, the money we pay for the hospital in the city, the hospital in the sick, the money we pay for it is in the pockets of foreign companies. I would like to invite you to work overtime until this hour, under the roof of Congress, not for corporations to make more profit, to invest easily, but for creatures of nature and nature. As a result, this law proposal has uncertainty and unpredictableness to deepen, rather than solve problems. That's why the law opposes his offer and we want him to back off. With all due respect.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0401par0099	Gulizar Bicer Karaca, Denizli MP on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Karaca.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0402par0102	Mr. President, our members of parliament, I salute the General Assembly. I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on behalf of the 15th Amendment to the Environmental Law and some Laws. Before I begin, I'd like to begin by honoring our Republican People's Party Environment Commission member and Edirne MP, Mr. Erdin Bircan. I would also like to point out that we will honor and proudly carry the legacy of our esteemed MP on this stand and on the high council, with his memory and with his commitment to the honorable struggle for nature's rights and environment. Our esteemed lawmakers are among the basic human rights of nature. Clean nature, green environment, balanced atmosphere is the great argument of our age. Living in such an environment is the basic right of each individual. Nature has the right to exist and renew itself in all forms. That is the basis of man's right to live and lead a better life. As the Republican People's Party, it is not possible for us to accept policies that view nature as the property of man, see natural beings as resources, and consume them indefinitely and irresponsibly. It is the duty of all men and state to protect nature and fight environmental problems. This task is a requirement and an obligation to our social justice principle as well as the right to live. The precondition for building a more just and equal society is to protect nature, to ensure justice in our living areas. In terms of conservation of natural rights, the State has been given an environmental prevention, environmental protection, and expansion by Article 56 of our Constitution. However, I would like to say that the Justice and Development Party has failed to carry out this assignment and to meet its constitutional obligations during its rule. Even the talks we have here today are a summary of the Justice and Development Party's view of nature. As the Justice and Development Party Group, we see that you have not changed your habits in the new system. Again, you fill a bag with a lot of amendments and bring them to us. We've put aside the other parties in parliament, and you're trying to implement the legal provisions that will bring sector representatives, civil society organizations and trade rooms to an end with this bag that you put in front of us without consulting anyone -- the country administration -- the rights to nature and the environment. We'll make a change in the seven laws with the bag of laws that come our way. The Law on the Environmental Law, the Roads Traffic Law, the Land Law, the Coast Act, the Mera Law, the Evaluation of Treasure Moves, the Law on the Converting of Lands Under Disasters, our country's natural habitats, its fields, its shores, its habitats, its habitats. These changes in the seven laws came into our hands on November 13th, which was discussed at the Environmental Commission on November 15th, and today, unfortunately, in a short period of a week, none of the participants, the NGOs, the rooms in the room, even associated with the changes in these laws began to be discussed here at this time of night. First of all, we'll make the bags payable. When we look at the content of this law-change proposal, which is being marketed in the form of a bicycle, we unfortunately see the odors and traces of Rant's policies, not in the nature we're used to. For one thing, let's be clear: you put the bag law in a plastic bag this time, and you're trying to sell it to society as a protection scam. Perhaps you don't know, I'd like to remind you. In fact, the arrangement for the sale of the bags was also organised by the AKP, the Justice and Development Party in 2017 in the Control Management of Package Wastes. This is a regulation that cannot be provided to users or consumers free of charge, including sales with distant contracts starting from 1/1/2019. So, if the arrangement for the sale of the bags is going to take place at 1/1/2019, then today we're selling the bags with money, reducing the waste distribution to the environment. Why are you trying to create environmentalism, a nature-friendly outlook on this arrangement? From this offer, you're not really worried about waste. According to the ministry, 45 billion bags a year are used in our country. According to this account, at 15 cents, $6 billion and 75 million will be collected from the public. It's not that we don't think that the treasure's empty safe and the economic crisis would be expected to be overcome by the money that will be collected from the bags. Let's say you've reduced the use of plastic bags by 90% with a cash bag app, 675 million dollars will go out of the public pocket again. Will it be recorded in the treasury to protect the environment or to drink the magic or dragon juice in the palace? Dear MPs, let's not forget, plastic doesn't disappear in nature. Obviously, when we look at the picture, some of the plastic waste is money, but many of these non-paid plastic wastes will continue to be released into the wild. According to the ministry's figures, Turkey produced 3.1 million tonnes of plastic packaging in 2016, not even half of this waste. China has brought a ban on plastic bags and garbage imports by saying it's harmful to nature and human health. Do you know where the waste of Europe, England, is coming from because of this ban on China? To Turkey, I'm afraid. Turkey is the country that imports most plastic garbage from Britain. In the first three months of 2018, Turkey imported 27,034 tonnes of plastic garbage from the UK, which was 12,022 tons in the same period last year, which means more than 100 percent increase. In this order you're going to call us zero waste, we're going to make a plastic bag of money and protect nature. We say, "Please lower your environmental masks." Now, you're going to object to my words and say, "We're turning the garbage back." If you don't know that, I'll tell you from here: only 1 per cent of Turkey's total garbage is being recycled, and 99 per cent continue to be released into nature, harming nature and human health. Turkey is one of the 20 most unsuccessful countries to recycle plastic waste, according to a study published in an internationally respected science magazine. When it comes to waste, I'd like to share with you the rebellion of Giresun's Sergeant's people. In our study of natural rights violations in the Black Sea District last week, because of the waste storage facility in the Sergeant, the people of that region have expressed their rebellion to us there, and I must share with you on this stand today. There are tons of waste gathered here without wild storage, without decontamination, and do not use water flowing from the public health plant to the stream because the fluids are sometimes mixed in the drinking water from time to time. Dear MPs, Mr. Cemal Ozturk, MP of Justice and Development Party Giresun, before the June 24th elections, told his people that the scene here was grave, the very day after I was elected, I will meet with the Minister of Environment and Urbanism and solve this grave painting. So, what's the congressman been doing since then? The people of the Sergeants are waiting to hear from him, and I'd like to remind him of his promise and promise from the council. As discussed by the Commission, the 27th is authorized to change the standards set by special laws, and can do so with his own plans. They're also trying to enforce a completely contrary arrangement in the legal hierarchy with this proposal of the law. In fact, in the Commission's talks on this law, positive regulations have been made in order to leave a viable nature for future generations, in accordance with the concept of right of nature and its content. It's not like we're going to talk about negatives all the time, and I think it's a duty to share these positive arrangements with you. It is not necessary. The provisions of the B class CED, which will change its positive decision, which is a regulation that will nullify the fight against natural rights and judicial decisions with a pun, were issued by the Republican People's Party Commission last week, with the motions given by members of the Environment Commission, and with the right reasons, with the challenge. So this positive development is actually very valuable to us and to those struggling for the environment. If the substances remained exactly the same, there would be no additional sanctions required to protect the environment, and only a change of name would cover the violations of natural rights. Speaking of which, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about CED. It is necessary to make it clear here that, given the implementation of legislation and judicial decisions in the CED process, the CED has been made into a prohibitive prosecution. In meetings where public participation should be met under the CED regulations, unfortunately, the people who would be affected by that arrangement and the project are not allowed in the area of the meeting with police cordons, but are being held as if there were a meeting of CED information with people from different counties, different counties, different cities, and in this way, regulations are being tried to be carried out. Turkey has also published a summary of all laws and regulations. In fact, this is a general 2009/7 that is above the violations of natural rights and invalidation of judicial decisions that we have experienced so far. Lu Generale. Unfortunately, the law, the law, the Constitution and the EED application rights are ignored, issued under the signature of Veysel Eroglu, Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs of the period. 2009/7. The decision of the court committee has been unanimously cancelled. However, the mine, which received the CED report for the fourth time, continues to work, increasing its threats to nature's plunder and human health. Again, the CED positive decision was cancelled three times after the cancellation of the decision in the Alaır Valley in Antalya Kumluca district. But the HES project continues at full speed and continues to destroy streams and forests. As if all these problems were not enough, the 18th article of the proposal is critical, including the establishment of energy lines projects on the shores in all areas of water, including sea and lakes. Dear lawmakers, in our country, they're building lakes, and some of our lakes, unfortunately, are now contaminated, irrefutable because of their Rant projects. Lake Bendir, Lake Burdur, Lake Eber, Lake Akşehir, and Lake Mughal Bafa have now reached an irreversible level of pollution because of the pollution of the Menderes River, which is rejected today. We'll almost run out of water basins to leave our children for the future. My dear President, our lawmakers, while our country's forests, farmlands, streams, plains are threatened with pollution, while our people are searching our cities for ways to breathe green space and to reach healthy food, unfortunately this change under the Environmental Law does not provide a solution to any problems. First of all, I'd like to continue to discuss some examples by sharing them with you. Three acres on 17 acres. The Botanic Garden, home to more than 500 species, was taken from the Botany Main Science branch of İstanbul University and turned into a muftuary garden, which was handed over to the President of the Dianet Works, and the Botanic Garden, where scientific research was carried out by police force. Again, this centre, which carried out activities such as plant biodiversity, Geophid Research and Education Centre, has also resulted in the same outcome, the preservation of herbal biodiversity, the restoration of forms of ornamental plants collected from nature, and the registration of them, unfortunately, has been transformed into the palace's social facility. Dear lawmakers, without science, we can't protect climate and nature and public health. The way a power looks at science is the way it looks at man and nature. We can't protect nature and human life with this law proposal that you put in bags and brought against us. So let the 27th term be a period in which our country, for the future of generations after us in the country, also for the rights of nature, for the environment, takes true and sincere steps, and history is written. First, let's put an end to the artificial nation garden show, bring the Paris Climate Agreement to Parliament, and take a step to prevent climate disasters by getting it through Parliament as soon as possible. In addition to the environmental impact assessment, which we call CED, let's implement strategic environmental assessment processes and make it mandatory to assess health impacts by determining cumulative effects. Dear MPs, Ergene, who died in our Thrace region, the pollution of the Menderes River, which died in the Aegean region, is now irreversible. Let's take all our water basins into the Ramsar Convention to protect our water basins and leave them as an inheritance to our future with arrangements that will never be returned. As you did at the Mursal Dam of Sivas Divrik, let us not put mining projects near the drinking water basins. Let's make subterranean spring water, surface water, and subterranean water feeding grounds an absolute containment field. Let's start with these, if we can take our policy choices much further, then the next generation will remember us for good. If we can make nature's rights the priority of any policy, our country will be divided forever. Dear lawmakers, we live under the same sky, breathing the same air. Even if we're not on the same ship, the nature that's dying because of your rant and your plundering policies will come when the day comes. It's not too late, Millet, stop hiding your betrayal of the cities with a garden cover, and I say: "The right of nature cannot fit in this bag, and the right of nature never stops in a plastic bag." I salute you all with love.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit06spe0403par0131	I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-11-21sit07spe0403par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 20th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal No. 15 Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since there is no other topic on our agenda, it is Thursday, November 22nd, 2018, at 14 p.m., to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
