tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough for a meeting. Congressmans, I'd like to share with you some of my views today for the first time running the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, one of the areas that I find problematic in this new legislature and the new legislative year after the amendment is the gray areas between the presidential decrees and the law. I want to make it clear that I'm not talking to an example. Members of parliament, the division of forces that are the precondition of democracy, an independent law independent of the administration, an independent executive and independent of the law, and an independent judicial body independent of legislation and execution. Since John Locke and Montesquieu, the the theorist of representative liberal democracy, has been considered this way, democracy is founded on these foundations, this is how it's run, and it's not called democracy. To establish democracy is to institutionalize the principle of separation of forces, to protect democracy from the majority understanding of power, to control the activities of the independent and neutral judiciary and the functioning of legislation and governance. The control authority of legislative activities has been handed down to the constitutional courts, which have been specially established for this purpose. Dear lawmakers, constitutional law and constitutional judiciary are not limited to constitutional texts. It is considered to exist not only on the established authorities, but on the universal principles of law, such as loyalty to the covenant, good intentions, the meeting of the state of law and the security of law, the walking backwards of laws, the rule of state law from internal law. In democratic regimes, constitutional courts do their constitutional rights to protect and secure human rights from possible trends in eliminating the basic body and principles of the constitutional state. Such control demonstrates itself as a necessary counter force against the increasing efficiency of the majority's power. The principles describing the pluralistic democratic society are under the recognition and protection of constitutional courts. In this regard, constitutional courts must protect democracy against majority power, arbitrate between the bodies of the state and maintain and expand the freedom regime. Dear MPs, there should be no rule over the Constitutional and laws adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly. As part of the law passed by the Turkish Grand National Assembly to make changes that would be adopted in the new Constitution, the regulations issued by the former government, rather than harmonising the new Constitution, were intended to create empty spaces for the President to make arrangements with decrees because there is no decision to be made by law. For example, with the amendments to the Turkish National Assembly's Executive Service Act, the National Palaces have been removed from the Turkish Grand National Assembly and its administrative structure has been shut down. After that, the presidential decree opened the way for these national palaces to join the presidency. Members of parliament, the jurisdiction law authorises the Council of Ministers to regulate the laws of the organization of ministries and public institutions; the Council of Ministers shall not change the law of the law of the law of the law of the Turkish Cypriot and the legislature, on the basis of this authority. In the meantime, the control of presidential decrees by the Constitutional Court is important because the control of the Constitutional Court's presidential decrees is different from the control of the law. Under the fundamental control of the laws, only the Constitution shall examine its fitness financially, while the presidential decrees must be inspected first and first as to whether the Constitution obeys the limits of Article 104/17/17. In this regard, the Constitutional Court must immediately conclude and establish its norms in order to prevent conflict between the presidential decrees and the law. Dear MPs, there is a very, very special aspect to the removal of the National Palaces from parliament and their commitment to the presidency. As you know, in parallel with the removal of the reign and caliphate, the palace and brawns of the Ottoman Empire have been left to rule the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on behalf of the nation. This is a parallel application to transformation in the sense of sovereignty. As the will of the Padişah passed from a system to a new system where the will of the people was the basis of the republic, the palaces belonging to the sultan were also left to the Parliament, where the will of the people was represented. This is a very valuable transformation, which means a great deal; it's a saving of revolution. Now, the commitment of these assets of our cultural heritage to the President comes at the top of the most important issues that our Parliament needs to rethink and retake. Congressmans, I don't find it right for the founders of our republic to be drawn into the internal political debates of the founding staff. The Republic of Turkey is a state founded in the wake of the Liberation War, which is won by blood against imperialism and seven heifers. The heroes of this unprecedented war in the world are Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönu and his comrades in arms. If we can all sit together in these seats today, we owe them. Today we owe them the independence of our homeland, the liberation of our flag. When the founders of modern Turkey put their lives on the line against the enemy, I wish we'd been defeated in the Battle of Salvation, and the Greek had won. They deserve more than enough respect and loyalty to compare with a mentality that says, (HIP and GOOD PARTY) It is the duty of those who rule the state in the first place to show maximum respect and loyalty to our founders and heroes of the War of Salvation. I hereby commend Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Innu and his comrades with respect and gratitude. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Dear lawmakers, one important problem is the Supreme Court Supreme Court's decision that the Article 83/4 of the Constitution, which I consider a violation of the Constitution, should not be implemented. As you know, the investigation and prosecution of the re-elected MP depends on the removal of the House's immunity. In contrast to this ruling by the courts, the Supreme Assembly of Turkey has to protect Parliament's law over the violations of the Constitution and the violations of the courts against its members. Congressmans, today we have one martyr in Çukurca, and last week we gave away eight of our martyrs. I ask God's mercy, my condolences to our nation, our heroic soldiers, who have laid out their lives in every way for the integrity of the country. Members of parliament, Parliament Speakers and Parliament Speakers must observe the principle of neutrality as they rule the House. I want you all to believe that I will make the ultimate effort. We're neutral, but we're biased on certain issues. As we rule the parliament, the esteemed MPs side with the Ataturk principles, the basic qualities of the republic. (HPP and GOOD PARTY) We favour the state of law and judicial independence. We're on the side of democracy, human rights. We're in favor of equality between men and women. We side with the indivisible integrity of our country. We are directly against terrorist organizations such as violence and terrorism, PKK, ISIS, DHKP-C. [[Applause]] I salute you all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we are now in session. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. Their time of conversation has been off the agenda, as you know, for five minutes. The first out-of-date statement belongs to Diyarbakır MP Oya Eronat (the Diyarbakır MP) who asked for the 2018 Golden Apple Prize for Tourism to be given to Diyarbakır. Here you go, Mr. Eronat.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0002par0028	Mr. President, I've taken an off-the-book promise this year that the Golden Apple Prize, which is considered the Oscar of tourism in the world, should be given to Diyarbakır. I salute your high council. Also, good luck with your new assignment. Before I speak, last Thursday, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who were killed by terrorists in Batman. My condolences to their grieving families. Today I will tell you the beauty of Diyarbakir, who I believe deserves the Golden Apple Prize to the end. Diyarbakir, who survived the ill memories of our President and our governments' intense work until two years ago, as if it were his fate, has become a center of attraction that tourists who go to neighbouring provinces without stopping to visit our province. After the largest fortress city in the world, the Great Wall of China, it has a magnificent artifact, which is 5,700 metres long and is 10-12 metres high. From above, we have 5,000-year-old walls of 82-year-old walls covering the city as if it were a necklace, with interesting patterns and engravings that appear to be shielding fish. Again, the Ishkale, the former settlement of the city, which we have turned into an open-air museum with museums in it, has become one of the tourist destinations. In 639, when the Islamic armies conquered the city, the Great Mosque, which had previously served four religions and was considered the 5th Harem-i Sharif of Islam, was in the service of Muslims from then on. Again, the Holy Solomon Mosque, which has been restored, is home to 27 territorys, along with the Holy Solomon. Again, the Hevsel Gardens, which are considered the city's empty and entered the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List, offer spectacular views of the 40's and the Ten-Eyes Bridge, which we rescued from the concrete massacre this year, and are the subject of the song. Again, there are the graves of the prophets of Hazreti Elyesa and Zulkifl, two prophets mentioned in Koran-i Karim. Our district is also a town that needs to be seen with King Rock Tombs and a spectacular view of the dam. Again, the Zerzevan Castle, which we started excavations in 2014, was visited by 313,000 tourists in the first nine months of the year, and is intended to reach 500,000 tourists by the end of the year. Zerzevan Castle also has a very important feature. The fact that the last Roman temple of Mithras was in this castle makes Zerzevan Castle very important all over the world. On September 20th, during our Minister of Culture and Tourism, Mr. Mehmet Nuri Ersoy Beyin's visit to Diyarbakir, the Four-Foot Minare, who had previously been shot in the feet and restored, was inaugurated, and Mr. Minister, after seeing the beauty of Diyarbakir, has given us a great deal of strength and has added Diyarbakir to the areas where they had already set up as the 6-tourism centers. I would like to express my thanks to our governor, Hasan Basri Güzeloğlu, who has made great efforts to receive the Golden Apple Prize. Diyarbakir is also a famous city with literature. The famous poet of Ziya Gökalp, Güyük Ağlük, and Thirty-five poems, Cahit Sıtki Tarancı, who said "Mona Rosa," Sezai Karakoc, Adilosh Bebe, and Ahmad Arif, who said, "I have olded Prangas out of his health," is one of the great values of our city, the Esma January Majest, who again stands in our hearts with Berdel, who has stepped on social problems. Diyarbakır is also famous for its cooking. From here, I invite all my fellow MPs and all our people to taste the meat, the meat, and the burgundy, and I expect everyone to come to Diyarbakir, who is our love and is now known as Peace of the Land. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0003par0044	Thank you, Mr. Eronat. Dear MPs, the second word off the agenda, the Ceyhan River and Aksu Tea, belongs to Mr. Ali Öztunç, our deputy Kahramanmarash, who wants to talk about pollution. Here you go, Mr. Oztunç.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0004par0049	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love. Oya Hanım, we too are looking forward to the sprained body. Let's pass on this request. Sir, I've actually come to talk to you about the Ceyhan River and Aksu Tea, but in the last few days, Mr. President Ismet Paşa's love again requires a few words. I looked into it, and I looked into what had happened to Ismet Pasha during the time of Ismet Pasha. For example, during the time of Ismet Pasha, the tomato didn't get an 85 percent increase in a month; in a month when Ismet Pasha didn't get a 100 percent increase in chicken; there was no increase in gas, electricity, natural gas.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0005par0052	They couldn't find tomatoes because they were starving.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0004par0053	During the time of Ismet Pasha, Ismet Pasha didn't raise him. Bank didn't open Asia with Fetullah Gulen and Ismet Pasha. It's not Ismet Paşa who asked me if I didn't give you everything you wanted. Turkish officers were not put in a bag over Turkish soldiers because of Ismet Pasha. During the time of Ismet Paşa, Suleyman Shah Temple was not moved. Ismet Pasha's children served in the army, did not receive a report of decay, did not serve in the military. Ismet Pasha didn't make his son-in-law the minister. (HPP applause) In the homes of Ismet Pasha's children, there are no money, no safes, no resets, dear friends. There's no such thing as a love of the palace. Look, a palace at Ataturk Forest Farm, a palace in Marmaris, a flying palace... Ismet Pasha didn't do it. During Ismet Paşa, violence did not increase 1,400 per cent, child abuse did not increase 700 per cent. Ismet Pasha is a true hero of the Salvation War, a true hero of Lausanne. Ismet Pasha is a real hero, not a fake hero, precious MPs. (HPP claps) Behind him is the Ismet Pasha, the Medal of Istliklal, the hero. It is wrong for you to attack Ismet Pasha every time you are stuck with him. On your hands, on your face, on your knees. What's he got to do with it? They built a republic on the battlefield. They have walked from time to time, and are still spoken of behind Ismet Pasha. What religion is that, my friends? What religion is there to talk about behind the back of a hero who walked to Hakkk? As for Maras, Kahramanmarash has voted very highly for the Justice and Development Party for many years. He's got so many votes he can't get his vote's worth. No service. After all, if we send the jacket, it's voting. It's logical. There's Aksu Tea and Ceyhan River. Aksu Tea is running red, guys, red. All the heroes in the village know that. All chemical waste from factories goes to Aksu Tea. Well, does this need to be cleaned up? Yeah. Does it need filtering? Yeah. What's the government doing? He's doing meetings, show-off meetings. And? Let friends see us shop. No results. Aksu Tea is still running red. Elbistan... is the birthplace of Ceyhan River. We used to go pinching the Ceyhan River when we were kids, guys. Maybe you know what a pinch is. We used to swim there when we were kids. Now let the human in, the living plant doesn't exist, my friends. It's become that way. There is no effort; there is no maintenance of Elbia, and there is no cleaning of the Ceyhan River. Meetings are being held again, but there's no results. I'm complaining about the Justice and Development Party to the Elbians, to the Maras. You've also privatized the Elbia Sugar Factory. We said, "Don't act." We said, "You didn't listen. The factory was privatized, the workers were fired, and the farmer was devastated." He'd given 100 tons of beets before, and he'd get a little something in return, and he'd pet and feed his animals. You know what they just did? Before it was free, it was 20 lira a ton. Is that a thing? They're now selling the amount of free change that was given before for $20. Who? It's a non-privatisation firm. Why aren't you interfering? What's with the farmer's enmity? It's a shame, isn't it? Bringing zoning app to Elbia, 1/1. There are 5,000 of them, and five thousand of them. A city of 150,000 people is being converted into a village. It is requested that Elbistan remain under Kahramanmarash, and remain a village. On behalf of our Republican People's Party Group, I have proposed a law to make Elbia a province. In election time, we'll go to Elbia in the squares, and we'll make Elbia a province. I expect your support for the law proposal I'm offering, Mr. Mahir Ünal. If you don't give your support, the next time you go to Elbia, our citizens will welcome you, but they will respond negatively. In order for Elbia to become a province, we want support not only from the AK PARTY, but also from the National Movement Party, Mr. Sefer Aycan, as well as from Mr. Sefer Aycan. Please, let's all end these problems together. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0006par0068	Thank you, Mr. Oztunç. Dear MPs, the third word off the agenda belongs to our MP Cemal Enginyurt, who wants to talk about nut prices and production. Here you go, Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0007par0073	Mr. President, I've made a commitment to the price of nuts. I salute you all with respect and love. Many of you know that even though you haven't been in the nut-making areas, we're in real trouble with the nuts that I'm sure you know about. I'd like to address once again the issue of a region that directly concerns 8 million producers, a period of 250,000 members and Turkey's largest co-operative in the FİSKOBIRKİLK, but has been neglected in the last few years, and is mainly due to this neglect, the largest region of migration, including the Army and Giresun, on the agenda of Parliament. It's a product with 1.5 per cent of exports, which is $1.7 billion. It's a product that heads non-imported products in Turkey, which we think is a national product, but unfortunately it's an orphaned product that's been abandoned to its fate this year. As the nut season began, we asked our ruling party members, our brothers, and we said: "Take us with you." Let's be with the Army, Giresun, Tripoli CHP MPs, and let's inform Mr. President of this nut, inform our Finance Minister, because there's a situation that isn't clearly explained, especially our fellow trustees at the ruling party think a number like 12 lira is enough, and they're making a great effort not to bring it up. In fact, they know as well as we do that it's not enough. Because the AK PARTY Army MP Senel Seven-Yıldız called out to buy nuts and buy them before the elections. The election is over, and shortly after Twitter, TMO will announce the price. Not enough, but in two days, the price of nuts will soon be announced on a television channel. At a meeting at Mr. Nurettin Canikli Giresun, TMO will buy nuts and receive more than 15 liras. Unfortunately, our Minister of Transport, Mr. Cahit Turhan and Senel Seven Yildıldız, said: "It's a good thing TMO didn't enter the market. 12 liras, 13 liras is enough. It's not enough, my friends. The army and Giresun's high-profile area, the population is old, and over a acre of land produces no more than 200 pounds of nuts. Therefore, costs are not under $11. This needs to be resolved immediately. I would like to address our President here and say, Mr. President, that lawmakers of the EC PARTY have not informed you correctly. Mr. President, you are not the kind of person who would ignore 8 million producers in Myanmar, Arakan, Palestine, Iraq, Syria, as a president who is concerned about the problems of the world's Muslims. They call you the man of the nation, and the man of the people grieves over the people, and cares for the people. We're in big trouble, the manufacturer's in big trouble, really big trouble. We're not saying this on behalf of the opposition. Someone says, "Yahu, why are you with the AK PARTY?" Okay, we're not going to ask the AK PARTY, but we're going to ask the mosque of our village, are we going to ask the grocery store in our neighborhood? [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] So we're asking you to deliver our problem. We can't reach it, we can't explain it. I'm thinking about solving the manufacturer's problem with this nut thing. This solution will also be good for you in 2019, or your work will be very difficult, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0008par0081	Thank you, Mr. Enginyurt. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we're done talking off the agenda. Now, I'm going to make a promise to our lawmakers who have entered the system. Today, I would like to make this practice: Dear lawmakers, as you know, after extracurricular talks, we promised 15 members of parliament in accordance with the agreements we had reached before. Of course, when we promised those 15 MPs, the number of MPs was 550. If you don't mind, I'd like to make a promise to my friends today to evaluate this with 20 MPs for the first time since I've been on the stand, and to discuss the matter in the Presidential Court, to determine a fair number together. Congressmans, we are now starting to promise our friends who are entering the system in order. Mr. Liberty, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0009par0089	Thank you, Mr. President. The unresolved pollution continues to kill people in the Dilovasi district of Kopeeli. In Dilovasi, where 34 of every 100 people died of cancer, there was almost no house left without an oxygen mask or a steam engine. Unfortunately, coal dust is falling on the people from the OSB as well as the air that industrial facilities are poisoning. Children who go to school, parents who go to work, have to breathe coal until nightfall. A lot of kids have asthma. When the local authorities were blind and deaf in their ears, the young men of Dilova went up to Osmangazi Bridge and opened the banner for clean air, and were taken into custody for it. What do you want these guys to do? While his brothers are struggling with asthma, someone's going to do something. Should they wait with their hands tied? In order to save people's lives, to give them a better future, we cry out here for the immediate hand of Dilovasi. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0010par0094	Thank you. Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0011par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. It is unconscionable to look people in the eye, without shame, without being bored, when the mosques were locked up, and the mosques became stables. The fact is that during World War II, he moved to mosques in Niğde, where the relics seemed safer so as not to be harmed, and the honorable Turkish soldier waited at his door. The distortion of this truth for the sake of politics is a betrayal to this country and to our great religion. Again, a national struggle for political gain is a slip of the tongue, a diversion, a betrayal. Those who prostrate in front of the 6th Fleet, I wear a priest's dress if necessary. The effort of those who say, "The glorious Turkish flag in the hands of the late Inönul is futile to black out and make it American." The deceased, Inönu, is a great statesman who calls the United States, saying that a new world is being established, where Turkey is taking its place. God rest his soul. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0012par0101	Thank you. Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0013par0104	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you luck again. About 300,000 residents of the 13 neighborhoods in Bursa, whose population reached 3 million, suffer from the smell problem of Burma. It stinks of scholarship, and there are two reasons: Hamites dumps and treatment facilities that are now in the center of the city. TOKI built over 2,000 dwellings in Hamites and Jonahites, right next to the garbage for our narrow-income citizens. In the 16-year AKP's government, the Bursans, seeking a solution to the smell problem, were so frustrated with their lives that they began to organise signature campaigns. As long as local AKP authorities continue to slaughter the city for city rank instead of solving the problems of the Bursans, the smell problem will continue to be a headache. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But we believe that in the March 31st 2019 local elections, the Bursans will make the choice to end the smell of garbage and the smell of decontamination and the smell of rant.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0014par0109	Thank you. Mr. Karayel...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0015par0112	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, from 1920 to today, I honor all of our MPs who have served under the Great National Assembly of Turkey, and I cherish those who have been inspired to the afterlife. We are at the beginning of a new era as a country. Now all custody mechanisms that stand in the way of national will are gone. Thus, our nation knows who it gives power to and who it will answer to when it is necessary. By God's leave, we will work with this consciousness, and we will do our duty as best we can. We know very well that our country has a physical geography and a heart geography, and so we see that we have as many enemies as we have friends. In this period, as in all times, we will continue our struggle against all challenges with the support of our beloved nation, the prayer of the oppressed, and the will of God. We will never compromise one nation, one flag, one country, one state. I wish the second year of the Second Legislature of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, to the great Assembly, which has been honored twice as a veteran, and to you, our esteemed MPs...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0016par0117	Thank you. Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0017par0120	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you a successful time in the Acting President of the House. Workers were deprived of staff and long-term labour rights under the Community Benefit Work Programme, which was temporarily established in public institutions by ISKUR. Those employed as security guards and cleaning staff in the forest, municipality, culture, national education, health care, hospital, county private administration, community benefit project have also been ignored by the 4 December subcontractor law decree. Since they are not in labour status, they are unable to benefit from the Employment Law and the social welfare agreement, collective employment agreement, severance pay and unemployment fund. Here labor exploitation must be terminated, employees must be given a staff. The problems of temporary and seasonal workers must be resolved. It's not right to be hired for a permanent job for nine months and then fired again. They must be recruited. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0018par0125	Thank you. Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0019par0128	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is October 9th, World Mail Day. As it is known, the World Postal Service was established on October 9, 1874, where Turkey was one of the 22 founding countries and was declared World Postal Day. When we think of mail, we think of the PTT General Directorate with a 178-year-old history. Today's technological advances, of course, have forced traditional postal services to change. Along with globalization, the mail industry had to renovate itself and adapt to the developing world. By combining the historical experience of PTT General Directorate in the AK PARTI administration with technology, a major development, change and transformation has maintained its leading role in the most intense competition in its sector, making our country's economy very powerful. I hereby congratulate all the employees of our PTT organization for their successful service, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0020par0132	Thank you. Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0021par0135	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish you all the best in your position as acting Speaker of the House. Last weekend, President Erdogan, the head of the administration according to our current Constitution, held a consultation meeting with the political party and members of the legislature, the largest member of the Turkish National Assembly, the legislature. This image has once again demonstrated to our 81 million citizens the principle of separation of strong forces, as promised during the referendum of the Constitutional Amendment, and the principle of non-existence of democracy, and the inevitability of legislation and the independence of governance. In addition, loyalty to one person has come before the public in the party's state, rather than merit. Here are the criteria for the postings made to the Presidential Policy Committees last night, and it is unclear what responsibilities were made at the end of the process and what responsibilities of those appointed. This is what our country is in...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0022par0140	Thank you. Of course, Mr. Group Vice Presidents have the right to speak after promising our 20 MPs, and we'll evaluate them. I'd like to bring you back to the attention of our friends. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0023par0144	Thank you, Mr. President. The export numbers were announced in September. Exports increased 22.6 per cent in September, making the highest export of September in its history with 14.5 billion dollars. The annual export reached a record level of $165.1 billion. In September, our imports were $18.1 per cent down to 16.4 billion. In September, export growth was 37.42 percent. We're looking at which pens were exported: 40.45 per cent; cement, glass, ceramics are 46.24 per cent; nut products have increased by 7.370 per cent for this month; machines and evenings have increased by 40 per cent by 25 per cent in automotive; and in the first nine months, there has been a 12 per cent increase -- compared to -- compared to 2017. I'd like to thank our exporters from here.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0024par0148	Thank you. Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0025par0151	Thank you, dear President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I salute you all. I am speaking to the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism: There is a massacre due to urban transformation in Kuskudar district of İstanbul. I spoke to the Minister of Environment and Urbanism myself, and he asked for the phone number of the President of the Kirazlıtepe Beauty Society, the Minister of the Kirazlıtepe Association would call Mr. Secretary of the Minister of the Kirazlıtepe Association, and he said that he would still be calling Kirazlıtepe by this time last week as the Esentepe Mosque in Kirazlıpe was coming down. Mr. Secretary, the Cherry Hill people are expecting a call from you. 320 homes have been destroyed in Kirazlıtepe, and the rubble cannot be removed, but there are more than 900 other dwellings expected. These rubble need to be removed immediately, public health is threatened, and the sewer waters are threatening the environment because the pipes are cracked. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0026par0156	Thank you. Mr. Sagittarius...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0027par0159	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute all of you with love. Today I wish God's mercy and urgent healing to the wounded to our Mehmetçik, who was killed in the Çukurca district of Hakkari. Our nation will give its response to other terrorist organizations, particularly the PKK, who are subcontracted to the subcontract of the power of attorney war. Mr. President, today I have received a promise from Hatay's Menzelet and Guidance dams to thank you for the water flowing to Amik Plains. I thank our government, our President, our Minister of Agriculture and the Forest, and all the friends who have done all the work. An artificial river was built here, along the Ceyhan River a project that was 105 kilometers long, 15m wide, 55m deep, and cost 2 billion dollars. Thank you. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0028par0165	Thank you, Mr. Sagittarius. Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0029par0168	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I ask God's mercy on our martyrs and martyrs. Mr. Ali Öztunça, deputy heromarash, I want to thank you for bringing a known and constant problem of our province to the Parliament. The Aksu Tea, mentioned, and many of the 84 factories and companies that have caused the pollution of the Serbian Dam, are complex and disorganized in the old conditions. It has a 78-period decontamination system, which is built with old technology, can't fully repair the need for decontamination, and from time to time there are problems in the audit due to its disarray. We're working on our Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, our Ministry of Environment and Urbanism, our Kahramanmarash Metropolitan Municipality and the system of reforming and mass cleansing that our industrialists are talking about. I can't get into the details because of the tightness of my time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The project of the Elbia treatment plant is completed and is in the tender phase. We control and pursue all the issues and problems of our heromarash, all of our subjects and Elbistan, we have what we do, we have what we do, we have what we do. Heromarash isn't the old heromarash, Elbistan isn't the old Elbistan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0030par0175	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0029par0176	I hope to speak to our congressman in person about these matters in the documents.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0030par0177	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Mr. Illgezdi...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0031par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. The other day, we received some painful news, and we lost our first-grader in elementary school, who had been knocked over by the gate of the garden. Unsupervised iron doors, schoolyards, unguarded elevator shafts, locked fire exits, unfortunately, maintenance and inspections that are not done in our schools are dying. After each death, the event is isolated. The explanation is being made, which bleeds our consciences. On the other hand, our children's health is also neglected. Look, it's been four years since he's decided to recommend medical staff employment in schools. Many kindergartens and primary schools throughout Turkey today do not have infirmarys, and the health staff is not employed. Physical conditions are so bad that schools need to be audited in accordance with standards, they need to stop blaming families and children, and those responsible must be punished. That's not enough, but all schools should have full-time medical staff to implement employment immediately, and if they don't, they should resign immediately.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0032par0184	Thank you, Mr. Illgezdi. Mr. Kaplan...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0033par0187	Thank you, Mr. President. Hundreds of mortal, severely injured accidents have occurred over the years between the Nursday Aslanli and Sakcha-eye hill of Gaziantep-Adana D-400 Highway. In the last three years, there have been 90 financial accidents, 140 fatalities and a total of 230 accidents. The answer to the written question proposal I gave you, Mr. Minister Cait Turan, is that there will be an offer on the investment programme 2019 and then there will be a tender for production if it is put into the sanction program. Unfortunately, that answer has never satisfied any Gaziantepian citizens. This path that has been taking and taking for years must be done immediately. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0034par0190	Thank you. Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0035par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I wish you all the best in your mission. As you know, our citizens' acquisitions are down due to economic difficulties and the rise of foreign currency. The AKP had promised the government in particular before the elections, and I invite the government to keep its promises. In training, we ask the government to remove the 3600 additional indicators of our teachers, police officers and customs personnel, nurses and nurses in health care that they deserve without delay; we demand the fulfillment of the promises, the immediate fulfillment of the commitments, and that they be kept. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0036par0197	Thank you. Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0037par0200	Mr. President, congratulations on your mission. That's enough! Let's take out the law of violence in health together. This common problem is the general issue of society's health, and while all parties have agreed on it, even the ministers and the Prime Minister had already promised it, the law has not been passed; it is an embarrassment on behalf of the Parliament. He was brought to parliament to pass a rape law on the child, under the pressure of society, prevented by protests. Those who brought the child to marry its rapist didn't bring the law of violence into this House in health. I've submitted the law proposal to the House, and with all the parties, it's a common agreement that must be passed. Last week, on Tuesday, Dr. Fikret Haciosman was gunned down by an 18-year-old boy. 2,187 people were killed in 2017. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Individual arming has taken many lives, so we don't want it to take any more. You've raised 200 cartridge rations to a thousand. Let's get the law of violence in health out of this House without a day's delay.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0038par0204	Thank you, Mr. Sugar. Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0039par0207	Thank you, Mr. President. In cotton production, known as white gold, our country is ranked fifth in the world, but unfortunately we are one of the first five countries to import cotton. The cotton harvest has begun in the last few days. The price of cotton in Hatay province was then announced as $3.90, and then dropped below. What's the reason why cotton prices have been pulled down at a time when all inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, medicine are increasing? Doesn't someone want to make cotton? Is the government going to tie this to the outside forces? Our Hatay manufacturers are asking the government for immediate relief, which is what we demand. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0040par0210	Thank you. Mr. Cakirözer...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0041par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you all the best in your mission. Mr. President, HSK has rejected the application for the investigation of judges and prosecutors who are facing the trial in the İzmir military espionage case where 357 soldiers have been tried for life in prison. As an explanation, the HSK said there is no perfect account, the procedures are in accordance with the law. This is a scandalous decision, and this decision must be reviewed. Ergenekon, known as conspiracy cases, was arrested in military espionage cases by hundreds, thousands of patriots unjustly, lost their health, lost their families. We demand extradition of the victims of conspiracy, a formal apology from the state. All victims of loss of rights due to many years of imprisonment must be extradited. The prosecutor who created these victims, the judge, has to be processed immediately about police officials, and has to be investigated for those responsible for their political responsibility at the time of these plots, as well as for politicians. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0042par0218	Thank you. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0043par0221	Thank you, Mr. President. I ask God's mercy, patience for his family, urgent healings for the wounded, our nation's condolences to our soldier who was killed in the attack of traitors in Çukurca district of Hakkari. We have a big, strong Turkey vision. Our love is Turkey. We are taking the source of our legitimacy and power from our nation, where we are servants. As part of our vision of the mission, civilization, and 2023 Turkey, we are working to fulfill the need for the great responsibility that our beloved nation has placed on us and to teach it to future generations. Our goal and ideal is to build a strong Turkey that will take its rightful place among the world's states. Our greatest security on this road is our faith in our nation and the gratitude our nation has shown us. I salute the General Assembly, hoping to be worthy of our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0044par0225	Thank you. Mr. Stoneborn...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0045par0228	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, Gaziantep is the fifth-largest city in our country's exports. It's one of our rare provinces that survives by providing its own production and its own development. Hence, hundreds of merchants come to Gaziantep every day and become guests. Gastronomy and our world-renowned province of historical, cultural wealth are also the most recent routes for local and foreign tourists. As a result, visitors often prefer air travel. We see that our faces to the world have not been arranged for a number of air traffic to our Veteran city. The hours of existing flights are too early or too late for our people to count as premature. Flight tickets are also sold at high prices compared to flights in many parts of our country. The highest price in flights from Ankara and Istanbul is especially on the Gaziantep campaigns. Gaziantep is a city of commerce, it's true. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But small and medium-scale traders are the weight of those who come here to trade, not conglomerates. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0046par0234	Thank you. And finally, Mr. Butcher...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0047par0237	Mr. President, good luck with your new assignment. I wanted to give you our opinion on the age-old pensioners. It's not early retirement, it's a sanctioned right. The people gave their deputies power of attorney to protect the nation's rights. Now that we've received this power of attorney, there's a expectation that we'll be the people's surrogates, the people who voted for us, the people who sent us here. We demand an emergency meeting of the Commission for law proposals submitted by the Republican People's Party to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. Our people will not forget this pre-election proposal of the law. Work is the highest value. Be upright as you are commanded. These concepts need to mean a lot. In addition, I would like to request a bill on violence in health that will allow these people to use health care as much as they have received in the amount of time they receive, in addition to emergency situations. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0048par0243	Thank you. Congressmans, we've received assessments of our MPs entering the system like this, and I thank them separately. Now, Mr. Group, our vice presidents have a voice request, and I'll meet them. Mr. Yavuz Zayalioğlu. Mr. Vice President, this is your seat.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0248	On the charter, Mr. President, 20 minutes on the charter...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0048par0249	I'll invite you some other time later. Now, these words...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0250	Don't talk about the charter for 20 minutes, the other one's wrong, we fixed it.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0048par0251	Which one, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0252	We fixed it, Mr. President. The guys gave us the wrong information. So there's a 20-minute request on the charter, and there's no other.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0048par0253	This, Mr. Group Vice President, is a tradition of our House.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0254	I'm sorry.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0048par0255	After our lawmakers enter the system, we pledge to our members of the group who desire it. If you have any desire to address the General Assembly, please, your deadline is two minutes, but make yourself comfortable.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0257	Thank you. Good luck to you, too. Mr. President, in all the activities that we've discussed day after day in the legislature of our Parliament, where we're trying to preach the voice of Parliament, we're going to talk about the statements of the Civil Code, which we know as our Constitution, and we're going to talk about the voices of our government, and if the voice of the government is silenced from it, the voice of the people's will be cut down. We're also going to bring up our systems of concern about Turkey. So we now state with precision that we do not take a political strategy, such as total rejection or total acceptance; that we negotiate, that we negotiate, that we believe it's for the good of our country; that we will combine the political language of our party's political language with a will, no matter who comes from the good of the country, and that we will oppose those who come from whomever comes, but that we will not be able to meet them with the voice of the People's Assembly, and that we will be able to meet them successfully enough in the conscience of the nation. In order to express our websites, we have to discuss the government's general strategies while discussing the Council's Charter in unrelated talks. In general, we see that the government's political strategies, the way it uses instruments in its hands, are used in the theme of the way our voice is cut down as opposition. That puts us in a position to say certain things that we want to say, regardless of what we've discussed in the House. And in the future, we've passed on similar systems as we've been discussing the Council of Congress. And now, with the same sensitivity, I think we're going to be doing the same thing in a little while to ask for talks about the Civil Code, which means the House's Institution is less, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...we'll talk more about our concerns about the country, about the people. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0050par0263	Mr. Alekalioglu, I can promise.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0049par0264	No, thank you. I'll tell you the rest from the stand. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0050par0265	Okay, thank you. In turn, our Deputy Director of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Erhan Ustah. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0051par0269	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I wish you good luck on your duties as acting Speaker of the House.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0050par0271	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0051par0272	I have full faith that you will do your duty objectively, as stated in the Constitution. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs were killed today in the attack by a guided missile from Zap region of northern Iraq in Çukurca district of Hakkari Province; three soldiers and four others were injured. Again, unfortunately, last week, on October 4, 2018, eight of our heroic soldiers were killed during the passage of the military armoured vehicle at Batman Gercush. I pray to all our martyrs for the grace of God, God rest their souls. I wish patience to those who remain and to our great nation. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Mr. President, on the night of October 7th, 1980, which connects with October 8th, Mustafa Pehlivanoglu is our first country martyr to be executed after the coup of September 12th, an innocent young sapling who was murdered at the age of 22. Unfortunately, one of you walked from us to Mustafa Pehlivanoğlu Hakk. I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the martyrs of the Turkish-Islam trial. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Mr. President -- we know -- we're talking about the importance of our institutions and the protection of our institutions to increase the prosperity of our people. At the same time, of course, the development of our country, the increase in the welfare of our nation, depends on a good assessment of our human strength, which is grown together with our institutions. An institution that sees the economy, even the entire country, the entire, macro picture, is needed today in Turkey, with macro balances, with sectoral balances, with regional policies.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0052par0280	Mr. Master, please, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0051par0281	This institution will coordinate institutions, and will also be counseling the government. It is an institution that will set goals, project projections, set policies and measures to guide the government. In the past, the State Planning Agency did this. In 2011, as we all know, the State Planning Agency was shut down, replaced by the Ministry of Development. The Ministry of Development, of course, was separated from the core of the State Planning Agency. Under the integration of the new system -- which is correct -- the Ministry of Development has also been shut down, its duties have been distributed, but the main, or core, has been assigned to the Ministry of Strategy and Budget. However, as I've just expressed, it seems a little bit far from being an institution that sees the whole picture, makes all macro balances, makes sectoral balances, sets regional policies. Turkey needs this. If we can meet that need, like what we've been discussing recently, what we've seen in McKinsey's case, then Turkey won't need it anyway, because with our own manpower...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0052par0283	Mr. Master, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0051par0284	Of course, foreign experts can be used, we have nothing to say about it, it's also used in the State Planning Agency's establishment, or there's no harm in working with foreign consulting firms on certain matters. But some matters, of course, are very important to do by using our own man-made strength. In this framework, I would like to point out that in this latest development, part of the planning experts, experts and civil servants, are being transferred to the State Staff pool, which lacks much legal grounds. Unfortunately, there are some very well-trained experts or officers who do their job very well. It's important, Mr. President, that the authorities should be a little more sensitive about this... that this human purge of people in the institution with some ideological obsessions or personal hostility is wrong... and must be dealt with and dealt with. In fact, experts around the world today, unfortunately, have been thrown into the government staff pool. That's wrong. Turkey needs these people for its development, for its development. I wanted to draw attention to that, too. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0053par0288	Thank you. Now it's time for Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, deputy leader of the People's Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0054par0292	Mr. President, I wish you all the best. And thank you for the lovely speech you gave at the opening. Of course, the first thing we want to highlight is the situation of the journalist Spooner ▪ at the Saudi Arabia consulate. In one country, even the possibility of a journalist being executed in a consulate building is creepy. The case here, of course, should be enlightened at once, and we carry the hope that nothing has happened to Spooner, but we also feel that it should be questioned as to where that courage might be obtained. Previously, in Turkey, for example Medet Celebrity, Ankara, his office -- an honorary consul -- has been executed and still no perpetrators have been found. Whether an operation has been conducted by another country or in diplomatic, special situations such as consulate buildings, we feel the need to express that it is absolutely unacceptable and that it needs to be dealt with decisively. Of course, in particular, I think the relationship between Turkey and Saudi Arabia should be put on the table. Turkey, which mourns the death of the King of Saudi Arabia for three days, sadly prefers to remain silent over the death of hundreds of children in Yemen with Saudi Arabia bombs. Mr. President, with the numbers that have reached us today, more than 150 of our party managers, especially our Diyarbakır co-Chair, journalist Abdurrahman Gök - who lost his life last year in (Nevroz) and took a picture of a young man naked in the press, Kemal Kurkut (reporter, 66 years old, retired professor Dr. Nurettin Turgay from Dicle University) is among those taken into custody. It's a shame for a country's law that custody is so common. In the first interview, when we look at the information the lawyers shared in the police interrogation, there's no evidence, there's nothing to detain you, it seems to be a very common investigation. Do you have a code name? If they are arrested, the indictment will probably be filed in months. This is a major disgrace to Turkey's law, a direct pressure on politics. Again, Mr. President, I'd like to make a brief emphasis on the risks of the anti-inflation package that was just announced. Currently, it will have no function except to take measures on input costs, to discuss product prices, to confront the small tradesman and consumers. Look, there's been good news that there's no increase in gas, but when you look at the gas prices for the last five months, there's already been a 34 percent increase in five months.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0055par0301	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0054par0302	The small tradesman rightly asks: "How will we manage not to raise the price before the costs of entry have dropped? Here, of course, you have to go over hoarding, opportunism, but in a realistic and useful way. Mr. President, I'd like to make it clear that today, the Chief Justice of the Gazi University has written to the press, sending to the chief of chief science presidents, the failure of surgeries outside of emergency and vital surgeries, the warning that this could be handled as part of a crime against the public is very remarkable, it requires an explanation. Again, like Mustafa Pehlivanoglu, today's death anniversary, I'd like to end up saying, let's remember Necdet Adalı, and let's not let the young be executed again in this country. The fact that the execution was lifted in this Parliament -- no matter who it was -- is an important development, admirable, should never be discussed again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0056par0306	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Now, it's time for the Deputy President of the Republican People's Party, Mr. Free Private. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0057par0310	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, we thank you and are very proud of you on behalf of the Republican People's Party for the wonderful opening speech and the very important emphasis you've made in the House, carrying that beautiful frak on top of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] In the future, we hope that you will stick to the Constitution, the Civil Code, and the struggle you have spent your life in, and that you will not leave justice, and that you will be equal to all Parliament, which is good that there is democracy, that there is just governance. And we hope that your style will be adopted by all of our Parliamentary MPs. Today we remember our martyr in Hakkari Çukurca by burning our hearts. In such days, the country should be united, we condemn eight martyrs last week as President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Republican People's Party, who has sworn an oath on neutrality to link a political party to a terrorist organisation, but who maintained the entity and republic and the founding party in a hostile language. In the process following, we will strongly deny his rights and inseminated descriptions, and if he tries to associate a political party with a terrorist organization, we will remind him of the incumbent prime minister, who called the ISIS terrorist organization......... who called it "Sunni Youths". or that Putin would make himself an officer in 2016 for the withdrawal from Aleppo, or that Putin would associate a political party with a terrorist organization, or that he would first deny it and then admit to a political party with a different axis today. And in the future, don't doubt he'll get the same answer he deserves if he doesn't use a respectful language to the Republican People's Party, his glorious past, the founders of the party and the republic. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. President, in no democracy, in any developing democracy, the founding staff, the founding leaders, the national heroes are not demonized, not even criticised, for their faults, but for their good deeds, while today the last President who ruled the country maintains the country's hostility against the first president in fact, in an evil-making language the country has built against the second president. On his first trip to America, Hasan Cemale made an interview on the ATA, the biggest problem in Turkey is the anti-Americanist attitude of CHP. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who said today, has gone far enough to accuse the Republican People's Party of Americanism. Let's just say that the giant blue-eyed man who looks at the ships of the invasion armies will go as they came. If he says so, the Americanist won't come out of his party, let him know so. In 1964, when Johnson gave his famous interview to Time magazine, a new world is set up and Turkey takes its place in this world. There is no Americanist from Ismet Pasha's party. The Republican People's Party, which calls the Sivas Congress the first congress, will not come out of the Republican People's Party, which has released the poppy crop against the American embargo, and let everyone know that you, the American soldiers, will invade Iraq with their boots. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0058par0319	Thank you, Mr. Special. Dear MPs, on behalf of the AK PARTY Group, Deputy Group Chairman Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0059par0323	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, first, I ask God's mercy and forgiveness to our fallen soldier Emre Güngör, who died in Hakkari Çukurca, and to all the faithful martyrs who were martyred in the defense of religion and state, homeland and nation. In the same way, I call upon all of our veterans who are veterans for these values to be well, well, well, well. And I hope that your mission will be a blessing in return for the first time today's unification.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0060par0326	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0059par0327	Yes, of course, today's agenda is the Civil Code, but when our dear friends have their explanations in different circles, it's essential to contact them with a few sentences. I'd like to point out that when you look at the language and the language that we just talked about, you really need to be reminded that you should look in a mirror. So an unfortunate statement, like an evil-making language, has just been expressed as a style and language to our current President, the representative of the state and the nation. Yes, the founder of our Republic is Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the Commander-in-Chief of the First War, and the grandfathers of all present, Mustafa Kemal Pasha, have taught the imperialists a lesson, saying, "It is either the will or the death!" Notice, indeed, that if the Inebolu-Castamon-Illgas-Ankara line is historically the most important tevafuku of history, as a means of independence, as a means of independence, as a result of the Inönulon, a new world is set up, and the Republic of Turkey takes its place there. Perhaps in those days, the 15th of July is greater than the international coup attempt to invade and invade. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yes, conflicting with our President and the founders of the republic does not yield to anyone's benefit. The past is ours and the future is ours. Yesterday, Ataturk was the commander in chief of this nation, honorably fulfilling his duties as the president of our state, and now, in the name of our nation, the state of Turkey will be the sole share of its sentence, the flagship of its sentence today, Mr. President, and in the presence of representatives of the state and government of about 200 countries, in the name of our entire nation, the world is greater than five. So, dear friends, let's put everything back in its place, and let's all take care of our procedure, our rhetoric, our language. I believe that our Parliamentary Charter, which will be on the agenda today, is very important. I think it's a very important start for this Civil Code, which we discussed at the Constitutional Commission last week, to have all of our parties come together. There's a nice phrase, "Come, let's make the beginning beautiful, let's make it better, let's make it better, let's make it better, let's make it better, let's make it better together. I hereby thank all of our group vice presidents, all of our parties, to this beautiful Civil Charter arrangement that will be the product of this culture of reconciliation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0061par0334	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0062par0335	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0061par0336	Mr. Special, you have a request for a statement. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0062par0339	I won't prolong the discussion, Mr. President. He says it's no good to contradict today with the founding values of the Republic, with the founding staff. Yes, it would be very helpful to remind your President, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0063par0340	Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0062par0341	Let us also say that a second restoration of the Battle of Salvation can be expressed by you, but you will attempt to compare it with Ataturk, and to compare it with Ismet Pasha, and to the armies of Ismet Paşa; you will go to the Battle of the Inönu Square, you will go to Dumlupınar. If he says, "Go to Dumlupınar," and then he says, "If he has come to the servant," he said. Ismet Pasha and Ataturk went to put their lives in that square battle, fought there, risked being a veteran, and stood beside this nation, saving this country. Instead of waging a second Istiklal War on July 15th and taking it into your own party, July 15th is a democratic victory against the common coup of all the political parties of this country, where neither the commander-in-chief nor the battle of the square will come to you. There is one Commander-in-Chief, and that is Vezi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0343	It's about the system, and I...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0065par0344	Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0346	Now, I'd like to point out that what our President has said about the Inönun....should not be broken from his context. We say "syak" and "syabak," and the words before and after can have very different meanings in the reading of sentences. Do not approach prayer, as in the verse. So I wish that material reality would be revealed here once in a while. What's that? Mr. President has made a point to the logic of relations there, such as the IMF, which is heavy, out of the scope of criticism, really unrealised, turned into shadow boxing in some fantasy world, which is not remotely relevant to reality, such as the IMF, where misdirections, misdirections, and transmissions are simply here, independent of the person of the Inönon. Other than that, there is no other situation. We also want to express that yes, indeed, we need to call it the First Instruction. Because July 15th was an open international coup, but it was also an invasion attempt, an invasion attempt. Yes, he had two headquarters: one in Greenville, one in Ilgaz. In this Yeşilköy, Mr. President, and in Ilgaz, our Prime Minister, July 15th... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Could you please open it for a minute?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0066par0350	Sure. Let's wrap this up, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0352	I'm tidying up, I'm tidying up, Mr. President. We have to answer when it goes on, we say we're done, but if it opens again and again, we'll answer until the end. We have a lot to talk about.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0066par0354	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0355	So I want to make it clear that on July 15th, there were two headquarters. One is Greenville, where our President is, where you can compare the position and behavior of our President to the attitude and behavior of others, one. Secondly, Prime Minister Bazil Yıldırım Bey, the prime minister of the period, directed the destruction of Mürted Airport, which rained bombs on the nation, again to our Mehmetçik. Thus, our entire nation is a veteran. It's like the first invasion, the first territorial battle as our Veteran Assembly...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0066par0357	Finish your words.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0358	Finally, yes.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0066par0359	Please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0067par0360	Open up, open up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0064par0361	Just as we will all fight for the first time together, as the victory of a whole nation, of course on July 15th, we are here to die under bombs of all our parties, to have democracy, to share our republic for all eternity, our national sovereignty. Please have the common will of all our parties today, and the status of our president, who represents that common will, who represents the constitutional power to represent the state and the nation, as well as the President, who has the power to represent the nation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0068par0363	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0069par0364	Mr. President, one moment, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0068par0365	Just a second, Mr. Free. Mr. Alekalioğlu, you're in the system, and I'll give you my word. Mr. Free, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0069par0368	Mr. President, I won't. Let us remind Mr. Akbasoglu one thing. One group of vice presidents talks for one minute, the other responds for seven minutes, there's a lot of meaning to take out. Look, I'll put my dissertation on the table.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0070par0371	Here's the thing: you've had a conversation over five minutes before.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0071par0372	Please, please, it's like a boat fight!
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0069par0373	You talked about cutting him off from the context, behind the front. Look, it's the flaw of the speech that breaks the context of the promise, but how do you explain the absence of the photo from the context of the photo, and who takes refuge in this shamelessness? The Inönu (innu) has an American flag, a Turkish flag. While the country's last president was showing this flag, they gave him the Turkish flag, the glorious Turkish flag, in black, the photoshop. Whoever put this in their hand and who's holding it, whoever's holding it, they're gonna pay for it, and you're gonna see that.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0072par0375	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0073par0376	There's no photo-shopping.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0072par0378	Mr. Yavuz Yekalioğlu...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0074par0379	It's like a boat fight.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0072par0380	Dear friends, Mr. Yavuz Zayalioğlu has a request for a statement. Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0075par0383	Sir, we need to tie this up, it's getting longer because it's mutually exclusive. There is the village of Tarhanas, and the village is divided at one time, and the other half, which half the village has read, have become unable to say God the Saint. Now, there's a political attitude that the CHP is determined not to say to the oppressor, "Saint Allah." The longer this goes on, the more it's gonna be arm-wrestle over historical personalities. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Not the teacher that CHP reads, but the one we read... because we're going to make a statement. And our concern is that in our own responsibilities, I mean, in the circumstances in this geography, we need to get rid of the desire to wrestle political wrist wrestling today through the historical personalities that created us on this land, and do a little more responsible, serious work. We can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't, we can't... Our request is that we know that in this case, the sentences from the CHP are a cause of feisty in the government. In fact, we've seen it from time to time when we first witnessed it becoming a part of the opposition, a part of our dietary memory, by differentiating it in terms of our political propaganda -- politically speaking, in terms of our sensitivities and values that we belong to. The same thing is happening today. So I think we're going to set up the AK PARTY Group, the values that AK PARTY is sensitive to, the logic that they feel they belong to, the logic that they claim to be. So, I guess we're gonna stick the needle in ourselves with the sack. I think I'm going to have to make up for that a little bit as a good party. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0076par0390	Thank you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0075par0392	The possibility of power in this country is that I will do whatever I want and say whatever I want, assuming that the nationalist movement party has offered them unlimited credit. We will deal with your feeling. No matter what happens, we will not allow you to view opposition's objections as stones pointed at you from the enemy front. We, of course, will throw stones in your heart if it touches you, not your head. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0076par0394	Thank you. Dear lawmakers all agree that the men who founded our republic are the leaders of all of us, and the men who brought us here today. So I think we should all owe it to all of our founding leaders, to respect our founding staff, to show loyalty. Members of the law, a few of our friends have a request for a statement according to 60, but I'll do it in a moment. First of all, let's move on to the agenda, so that our friends don't split up, and I'll make a promise to them from time to time. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Dear MPs, Mr. Ozturk Yilmaz, MP of Ardahan, have reached our presidency on 4/10/2018 concerning his resignation as a member of the Foreign Commission. It has been presented to your knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has a thesis, and I'm going to have it read and put to your votes. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly On 10 October 2018, the European Parliament (EP) Constitutional Affairs Committee will hold a Parliamentary Committee Meeting in Brussels, Belgium, titled "Controversy on the Future of Europe." The issue of accession to the conference is presented to the General Assembly under Article 9 of the Law on the Order of Foreign Relations of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 28/3/1990 and 3620. All in favor... Those who don't agree... Sustained. Dear lawmakers, the Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I will have you read it and vote for it. At a meeting of the Council of Counsellors 9/10/2018 on Tuesday (now), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Free Special Justice and Development Party Group Republican People's Party Group Peoples' Democratic Party Group National Movement Party Group Subsequent to 1st and 2nd, the part of the Law Proposal and Proposals of Law Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions, which has been published and distributed in 4 and 5 rows. On Tuesday (October 9th and 10th 2018) and Wednesday's mergers of audit issues are not discussed, and the agenda is "Controversy of Law Bills and Proposals and other jobs from the Commissions. On Tuesday, October 9, 2018 (today) until the completion of the meeting of the Charter Proposal No. 4 (today), On Wednesday (October 10, 2018) the completion of the 5th Law Proposal, until the completion of the talks of the 5th row, and the completion of the audit issues in the meeting of Law Proposal Number 5 (October 11, 2018) on Thursday (October 11, 2018), until the completion of the 5th Amendment's talks; The meeting of the General Assembly on Thursday (October 11th 2018) is the completion of the 5th legislature's talks on Wednesday (October 10th 2018); The 5th Law Proposal was proposed to be considered the main law under Article 91 of the Civil Code, and to have the chapters in the accompanying form. Thank you. I submit to your votes that the Council of Education has been read: those who accept... those who refuse... are unanimous. Ladies and gentlemen of the law... Mr. Can, our friend who died today in Çukurcaca, I assume you have a promise to make. Is that what you want to say first?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0077par0447	Yes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0076par0448	Let's give Mr. Can a minute according to 60.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0077par0451	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, today is a sad day for us, and the fire has fallen upon us. I ask God's mercy to our brother Emre Güngör, who was killed by the vile PKK attack on Hakkari Çukurca. I am sorry for the loss of our people and of our nation. May the soul of our martyr rest in peace. Our martyr will be buried tomorrow at the village of Armutlu in Keskin district of Kurıkkale Nur Mosque. On this occasion, I ask God's mercy for our brother John Shun, who died last week in Batman. May the soul of all our martyrs rest in peace and rest in peace. Mr. President, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0078par0457	We also offer our condolences to our nation. It's a really sad loss. Thank you, Mr. Ramadan. Mr. Chepni, you have a request for a word, can you explain why you asked for it?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0079par0461	In honor of the 51st anniversary of the death of Ernesto Che Guevara...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0078par0462	We couldn't hear you, Mr. Chepni, could you please explain? So, according to 60, if you briefly sum up the reason for your request, in one sentence immediately...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0079par0463	It's about the 51st anniversary of the death of Che Guevara.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0078par0464	Here you go. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0079par0467	We remember Ernesto Che Guevara, a great internationalist revolutionary who was immortalized in Bolivia fifty years ago, with respect and love. He lived as a symbol of the world's workers' struggle against imperialism, capitalism and fascism, and he became immortal. Today, Ernesto Che Guevara remains a milestone in the struggle of our peoples and workers in the struggle of equality, justice, freedom and socialism, when the world is transformed into heaven for a handful of investors, and hell for the oppressed millions. Hope is standing up, Che Guevara is immortal.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0080par0470	Thank you, Mr. Chepni. Mr. Gaytancioğlu, explain yourself, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0081par0472	In Enez district of Edirne, the people went out in the evening, and they had a serious reaction about the trolls, I want to tell you about them.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0080par0473	Okay. After that, I'm going to make a final promise to Mr. Ozkan, because we have a list of friends and agendas to consider other demands in later stages. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0082par0477	Thank you, Mr. President. I wish you all the best in your mission. Trolle fishing is one of the major factors in the extinction of fish populations in our seas. Because of trolling fisheries, fish nests, eggs, and especially the blind net in the back of the troll net, the young fish are completely destroyed. Again, fish fishing, such as this, is not innocent if fish fishing is not used, for example, with the open eye for fish, if rules and bans are not followed. The people of Enez had a serious reaction last night, gathering at the port of Enez to prevent trolling. What do you want from the Bay of Saros? Let Saros, one of the few self-cleaning, renewable bays of the world, live, and let us safely leave this bay for posterity. Let's stop capitalizing in spite of the public.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0080par0479	Thank you, Mr Gaytancioğlu. Mr. Özkan...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0083par0481	Medical spending supplies...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0080par0482	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0083par0484	Dear President, I wish you all the best. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, first, my condolences on all our martyrs. Its short name is GETAT, which is traditional and complementary medical centers, based on education and research hospitals. In addition to basic health care, of course, there is a place for complementary medical services, which are not entirely denied. I'd like to continue my discussion with the illustration. It has been said that nearly 7 million Turkish liras have been spent on the GETAT centre so far. In these centers, 14 majors are planned, such as leeches treatments, pilgrimages, ozone treatments. These majors, primarily leech purchases, are under condition these days. However, in our country today's supply of medical spending on the presentation of basic health care cannot be achieved due to the economic crisis. Thousands of surgeries have been postponed. Paramedics are erratic... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Without a vital document in correspondence with public hospitals...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0084par0490	Mr. Özkan, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0083par0491	...to continue, to damage the state, to cause public harm...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0084par0492	Thank you, Mr. Ozkan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0083par0493	...in a wheelchair, in health...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit01spe0084par0494	Thank you. Dear MPs, we're moving on to the part of the agenda. Ankara MP Ahmet Haluk Koç has been nominated for one member of the Republican People's Party Group, which has been vacant in the Foreign Commission. I submit to your votes that those who don't accept... those who don't... are accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger. I'm waiting back for a cup of tea, if our group presidents would be so kind. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0084par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 5th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. According to the decision taken, we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We are starting talks with Turkish Parliament Speaker Izmir Yıldırım, who has been ranked in the 1st place, and the Constitutional Commission Report. Commission? He's in position. Mr. Secretary General, representing our House, is in position. The Commission Report has been printed and distributed with the number of four rows. Dear friends, we begin negotiations on the entire proposal. The first word is, on behalf of the PARTI Group, our Istanbul MP, Deputy Director of the Group, Mr. Yavuz Zekalalioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Sekalalioglu. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0085par0015	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We've held negotiations with Parliamentary Council, both in the Commission and in our working groups, agreed, and tried to do the best we could. Despite the fact that we've poised our government's will to combine speed with efficiency on these issues, it's come to a rash of good at every speed. In fact, we believed that the Parliamentary Council's transparency regarding negotiations, agreements, audits, and the future processes would lead to both the agreement and the fact that the laws that we're going to establish on this occasion would not return to the puzzle board, but that was the agreement. Now, I will take this opportunity to take our word and leave the bench with our government, our systems, our criticisms, our proposals. First of all, it's a new system, a system where we're having trouble acting, and even the government has trouble acting. In this new system, which has been presented, we haven't found the efficiency of even the Parliamentary Council. Thus, the system put in front of us has lost its efficiency even at this stage, removing effective decision - making mechanisms in the darkest days of the land. So we suffer in general from the government's way of doing allelusive work; in general, we suffer from the way the opposition works; we suffer from the way the opposition proposes to complete the opposition's criticisms, the incomplete aspects, from enemy lines, like an attack on their fronts. So we, at the General Assembly, transform every position we can get to express our systems, our proposals, and we try to make it clear to the government's ears that don't hear us. We had an agreement earlier in the General Assembly on the Civil Code, and we just, in fact, carried through that agreement to this day our proposals to become more efficient, more efficient, more transparent control opportunities, to become a parliament that was more effective, more transparent. It's a text that we're more comfortable with, at least because it can be agreed on. We'd like to have a political area where Tali commissions, major commissions, residency commissions can work more efficiently on these issues, we'd like to have a work space; it didn't work out; it didn't work out; it didn't work out. The quick, efficient decision-making mechanism for these issues is a quick sentence for the Parliament's adoption of the laws that we've always wanted to achieve, and we're faced with negative consequences of our failure to obtain the efficiency we've always wanted. We have experienced these things before, and have lived in the Law of Dealing, and have lived in similar laws. We wanted to be able to get a law out in silence so it wouldn't turn into a puzzle board, to isolate all of its sides -- as the ancients call it -- to make it a mosque, to make it perfect -- but that's what it became. Now, through this text that we can extract, we've made a number of proposals, including the rights of the House to speak, the ability to criticize the opposition in parliament, the ability to lose control of power through the opposition, including the hours of power, the procedures of asking questions, all of which include the process of making laws, the commissions, and the mechanisms of the main commissions. Now, the text we get as a memorandum of understanding is hopefully a text that we won't have to turn into a permanent puzzle board. We wish him well, on behalf of our party group. On this occasion, I would like to inform Mr. President that I would like to make a statement to the AK PARTY, to the ruling party, not to his personality, but to his spiritual character, sir, if there are any demands of taunting, please. We suffer from the fact that at times when our power is in place of opposition, we suffer from the fact that the opposition is not able to express itself in terms of political communication instruments, so that some of the wrongs are expressed by the opposition, and our power only becomes religion when we see a place where they will lose their votes. So what we're trying to say about the McKinsey debate is that as many sentences as the opposition is trying to highlight, it's sensitive, the political response of these sentences is only available when it comes to losing votes, the possibility of losing political dignity. So that's exactly what we're saying in this case. Misalen, if this were an international agreement, if McKinsey had a law to submit to the House under our agreement, it would have passed. It's a job we benefit from the negotiations. Thank you, Mr. President. The groom has saved us from the charge of treason and ignorance. Sometimes that's what the Commander-in-Chief requires. I mean, sometimes you have to shield yourself from something that will result in your House being insulted in false sentences. So I'm grateful for that sacrifice, thank you. Now, the narrowness of the opposition's voice due to failure to use political communication instruments, due to lack of expression, is fueling the process of opposition to the government's own actions over time. We sometimes hear our sentences from the ruling party. Since our self-helping president has been able to reach such precise times, it becomes a much more reasonable, much more efficient way for us to address the group through him, to send a message to Turkey through him. In last week's party group, Mr. President added a statement to the back of his political framework for local governances, which we appreciated. You know, it's actually the opposition that can criticize power with words and words. Power is not the center of words, but rather the center of business. So something started to happen: From time to time, and from time to time, we began to hear from the President more often. In last week's party group speech, no one comes to me with a relative. This is my relative, this is my being, this is who I am. Let him not come. We thank you for his sensitivity. Mr. President needs to know that since our party group doesn't think the AK PARTI Group can say this, we're saying that Mr. President can't let anyone come to me with his relatives, claim kinship, take away his relatives. We agree by making a decision that the EC PARTI Group may show kindness, that the will to establish intimacy with you can't deliver their systems, their comments to you: Mr. President, we're grateful that you don't move to the state levels of the people. There's a gentleman named Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who claims to be from the same mother, the same father, who claims to be from the same father, and who will have no qualms in the minds of your friends. Mr. President, this gentleman is telling me that no one should come to me with a relative of yours. Would you take his son-in-law to your presence and make him Minister of Treasury and Finance? It's not enough, sir, that my son-in-law, the Entity Fund, is not enough, they're putting a lot of people in the service of the state to give you closeness to political influence because you can't be asked about it. To the attention of our President, please invite Recep Tayyip Erdogan to party discipline within the framework you have drawn his sensitivity, or if he does not comply, do not comply with party discipline. In this country, we believe that we are living in the worst time in the state-level relationship between spouses, friends, relatives, procedurals, worst times. In universities and in bureaucracy, we're going to be sensitive about this issue, we're going to file questions, so I'm going to say what kind of administrative positions do you now occupy in the state administration? Thus, we believe that this is the only way that power can be saved from the attempt to break the opposition's event by forming sentences today that the opposition needs to make. We, now, have started working on local authorities. In the work that we've started to do, the way politics uses the power in its hands, the great crisis we're facing is not a crisis, but what should we call it? In Anatolia. Trade rooms, business rooms, business rooms, meetings where our government can have ears and eyes, what should we call it? They do their consultation before the meeting, you know. After he stepped off the stand, the businessmen made a statement to the oasis of the situation in sentences such as narrowness, shortness of breath, perspiration, temporary turbulence. If we're deprived of the ability to diagnose the disease, then everything we do for treatment stays in the air. Friends, let the people live so that the state may live. I am speaking to the people who are on the road. Today, keep our party alive so the government can live. I'm hosting a party that has reached its destination. Let the people live so that the state can live. If the country goes away, the country will be ruined. I condemn a political will that comes to it. By pointing to the rings on his fingers, I am subjecting the sacrifices of the Lord Omar, to the sense that a government who has set out to report the untouched missing to the conscience of the nation, who has not touched the face of the Lord, would not call it a crisis where he came from. So if we're going to invite people to sacrifice today -- the debt on our government's neck -- he's going to train in yogurt, especially our president, then he's going to say sacrifice. Therefore, the cost of the palace should not have been at the end of the road that had been started, the cars would be privatized, and the dwellings would be sold. It shouldn't have been such a big deal. Our morality, Ranta, should not have gone back to the concrete economy, to know our most precious blessing in the name of efficiency, as in production, as in the sweat of the forehead. Today we are entering the election process for local governments. What now means the Turkish economy, the production tape, the production morality, the consciousness of production, the will to produce, is the lack of municipality of the AK PARTY. Behind this concrete economy is the newly discovered precedent-intensity-freeness. Not to mention that they've become thirty-forty-year-old construction companies, big industrial companies, big manufacturing companies, who haven't been able to win from the industry in 40 years, because they've been able to build concrete for 40 years because they haven't been able to build it in the development, the precedent irregularities, the concrete they've been offered to themselves. Today, this production has two legs, and we're going to make a motion on it, and I hope it finds makeup on your conscience. Today, I don't know how long it's been established that allelusul, who was supposedly abducted abroad, was even identified. However, it has been strengthened by the background of this concrete economy, where you can get information from every businessman who does business in the market, with large business centers, AVMs and skyscrapers created through the financial force, development condensation. Friends, we have two kinds of jobs to look into, since the economic size of this pre-July 15th has been handed over to some people after the humiliation of July 15th, where they've been handed over, where they've been handed over, where they've caused capital escape abroad, because we've got two jobs. What our economy has on us today is the rule of the Turkish homeland, which has become a burden that our people who are producing can't afford it. This is AK PARTY municipalism, which has been whipped by its resources by the use of municipal resources. Thus, the Turkish economy, which you invited the Turkish economy today, has become breathless. In the face of inflation today, which you cannot restrain by the force of the police, do not call the businessmen "crisis." You can't cover the fact that we are faced with an unstoppable hoarding of the borders. We have to figure out the social dilation that will come with new cracks following the financial recession after the companies that announced the concordato today. Our request is that when something happens to our government, it's more inclined to do what's right. At first, the government, who doesn't hear what we're saying, when its head hits the wall, listens to what the opposition has to say. They ignored our reviews on McKinsey. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0086par0033	Mr. Secalioglu, collect your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0085par0035	This is the way we have offered to get them out of this economic crisis that they've brought into our government so that they can get rid of this political vortex that they've entered into. Please don't call me if anything happens to the people you've invited to invest in Turkey. Let us also say to the President: "Please don't call us if anything happens to you as you invite the businessmen you invite to Turkey to invest in your country, as you invite them to invest in new loan opportunities in Turkey. Please don't say, "If anything happens to you, call us." It's the word of the fiefdom of the countries of the world who can't uphold the law of the world. Once you hear that, you don't invest in a country, you don't just come up with that. So, we have to build a country where the law dominates, we have to build a country where righteousness is employed. And while we're employing liakati, we have to make it clear that religion, language, religion, religion, belonging, there's no point in being from our neighborhood, we have to meet with our political will. If we can make this happen, it'll be easier to manage after that. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My respects to your committee.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0087par0040	Mr. Alekalioglu, I'll give you a little more time to greet, if you'd like.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0085par0041	No, thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0087par0042	Well, thank you. The second word on behalf of the groups, Mr. Erkan Akçay on behalf of the National Movement Party Group, belongs to our Manisa MP. Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0088par0046	Mr. President, I have been sworn in by the National Party of Movements on behalf of the esteemed lawmakers' proposal for a draft amendment. I salute your honorable committee. Today, we will make changes in our Civil Code, making some necessary and important changes in the direction of our Parliament's compliance with the Constitution and the Presidential government system. The Commission phase of the proposal has led to productive talks. The point, however, is that the proposed amendment passed through the Commission, along with the agreements of the groups. In a document that regulates the working and essentials of parliament, we find it extremely important that a compromise between parties has been reached. Starting with my remarks, I would like to thank Mr. Bululi Yıldırım, chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, Mr. Bekir Bozdağ, Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Mr. Mustafa Sentop. And our members of the Commission, who have contributed effectively and efficiently to the completion of the talks of the Commission, as well as to the members of the group of our political parties. Dear MPs, the Civil Code, is a document that determines the rules, rules, order, discipline and limits of our Parliament; it has been subject to change from time to time according to the needs, the problems in practice. As of at least 45 years ago, 15 changes in various substances have been made and 172 amendments have been made. The basic motivation of the Civil Code amendments is to ensure that the Parliament works effectively, efficiently, politically, culturally and legally. The proposal includes verbal changes, as well as changes to the functions of parliament in the presidential government system. For example, the Constitutional amendment on April 16th was arranged for the President's veto authority, and the President's veto authority was lightened with the Constitution to ensure that the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which is responsible for the ban, will not be weak in the face of the execution. According to this, if the President accepts the law sent back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in exactly the same way as the full number of members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the proposal will be enforced, and the president's veto will be invalidated by the vote of 301 lawmakers. The heavy veto application of the presidential system, which is typical of its presidential systems, does not exist in this presidential government system. In this direction, there is also a need for changes in the law-making process in the way the President vetoed laws to be discussed. In addition, various changes have been made. For example, there have been some changes to Parliamentary functioning, such as the removal of the guard battalion, and the electronic delivery of law enforcement documents to lawmakers. Another important issue, however, should be the changes to the Civil Code in accordance with the spirit of the new government system, the paradigm. This is an important need that we need to fulfill in the next working hours. I believe that we will do better by experiencing, by experiencing, by arguing, by experiencing the changes we will make in the coming process. Turkey has a serious history of legislation, culture, savings and tradition. We need to carry out a better, more efficient and effective law enforcement activity. In this direction, I'd like to sum up in front of you, valued lawmakers, the most important things to pay attention to in the future Civil Code change. Our first priority is to increase the legislature and control capacity of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. For this reason, political party groups must be eliminated from their public institutions and institutions, and this process must be established on legal grounds with the Civil Code. Secondly, in the process of discussing law proposals in commissions, the commission head should be able to ask for regulatory impact analysis and opinions from public institutions and organisations regarding the proposal. In the areas of legislation and control, the unit and staff of the Turkish Grand National Assembly must be strengthened. In particular, it is essential to establish a structure that will provide the necessary support for party groups and lawmakers in legislative activities. In addition, the final account or audit commission must be established. This commission will make our Parliament's control function more institutional and active, and it will suit the spirit of the presidential government system. As all party groups generally agreed on in past-term studies -- at least in terms of opinion -- we also think that the establishment of the child rights commission, the establishment of the local governance commission, are issues that we should consider in the upcoming Civil Code studies. The needs are the mother of the law, they call it. The executive law cannot offer, but we also feel that it should be able to give written reports or opinions on the implementation of the laws, problems and needs of the law. In the end, the final clause of each law shall be passed in the form of the President. So the fact that the separation between law and conduct has become more obvious does not mean that there is no wall between the two forces, no communication and no dialogue. In that way, it is also important that these legislatures be established and institutionalized by formal rules. In the Civil Charter, we must ensure that the commissions work more efficiently, effectively and functionally. Commissions should be the kitchen of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and a quality service should be served to the General Assembly. The presidential government system, which we carried out with the Constitutional referendum on April 16th, has led to significant reforms in Turkish public administration. These reforms have two dimensions in the general framework. The first is that the legislative and executive bodies are designed in accordance with the system, and the second is that the presidential government system is established by all institutions and rules. On the first issue, the June 24th elections led to a significant phase, and the executive body was shaped directly by the will of our nation. The Adjudication Proposal we discussed today includes compliance with the new system and the Constitution. The place where harmony will take place, again, is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is decided by the will of the nation. Here are the issues we think will lead to the world constitutional law literature as a new model of the presidential government system: 1) The separation of forces becomes clearer and clearer. 2) Establishing a balance-responsibility mechanism. 3) The parallelization of authority and responsibility. 4) The institutionalisation of legislature-walking relations. As a natural consequence of Turkey's journey of democracy, the presidential system of government, which has come to life, meets the principles of the state of law, the separation of forces and democracy. In the presidential government system, the executive custody or influence on legislation has greatly improved. The executive won't come out of the legislature. Furthermore, the obligation to run with the majority of legislation has been lifted from the same party. With two separate crates placed in front of the public, administration and legislation have been selected and shaped separately. With the majority independence of legislation from the execution, law enforcement control will also be activated, as the separate forces are established in a significant way. In accordance with the constitutional logic of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's control, unlike the parliamentary system, legislation control can also produce political consequences. Dear lawmakers, the centre of the new government system is balance and control. The control of running the parliamentary system, where legislation and governance were intertwined, was not fully operational. In the formation of the executive body, the fact that the party or parties already constitute the majority in parliament had a negative effect on the control function of the Assembly over the execution, but today, at least today, as a constitutional system, it also shapes the relationship between the two forces, which is separate but equally determined by national will. Within the presidential government system, the mission of parliament allows the construction of the balance-french mechanism. Another tool of the balance-testing mechanism is that elections can be renovated. The Ombudsmal and Court audits must also be counted within the institutional framework of the control duties of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The presidential government system is a distinctive feature of Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is the establishment of the principle of authority and responsibility, and responsibility for those who exercise authority. The former state of our constitution was unable to maintain the balance as the presidency's office, to prevent a government from acting arbitraryly, but in the new era, the President who used authority was responsible for all his work and actions, every signature he signed, in legal, criminal, administrative, and political manner. With the presidential government system, our country has achieved a system of governance, a facility for stability in governance, a system for justice in representation. Now, the trick is that it's up to all of us to sit and operate this system successfully with the entire institution and its rules. After all, no matter what the system is, success is achieved only by good practices. We need to strengthen our democracy, increase our culture of reconciliation, and improve it. Turkey's strong state, strong governance, democratic stability goals are the main backbone of the new system. It is one of the most important features of this system when legislation, executive and judicial bodies become more powerful within themselves, more independent, more active in the mechanisms of balance and control. The most important innovation of the presidential government system is Turkey's accession to a more democratic and stable management system with a model where both political control and legal control are established. Right at the center of all of this is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The principle of authority-responsibility, the balancing-responsibility mechanism, can be dealt with by the Parliament's efficiency. Our goal is to ensure that our Parliament fulfills its authority and responsibilities in line with the new system. With state-national harmony, we will make our nation prosperous, our state strong. We believe that the change we will accept today will increase our Parliament's efficiency and efficiency in harmony with the new system.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0089par0070	Let's turn on the president's microphone.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0088par0071	As I end my words, I salute your honorable delegation, wishing the House, our country, our nation, to the best of our House of Civil Code.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0089par0073	Thank you, Mr. Akçay. Is he in the system, my dear friends? Your Highness...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0090par0075	He's not here right now.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0089par0076	No... Mr. Girgin, you have a request for a statement based on 60. Explain the reason.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0091par0078	The workers who were fired...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0089par0079	Okay. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0091par0083	Mr. President, the workers at the TUVTÜVTÜRK Hospital in Mugla are fired because they are unionists. About 20 workers, each with ten years of seniority, have resisted for 60 days. According to our Constitution and the International Labour Organization (ILO) convention signed by Turkey, unionisation is one of the basic rights and freedoms recognised to employees. The Employment Act also forbids being fired for union reasons. The Prime Minister of the period, Mr. Bali Yıldırım, called out to the workers at the ILO European Regional Assembly in 2017, and said, "Don't be afraid to commit and organize." One: We expect the Minister of Labor to visit workers in other workplaces who share the same fate in Turkey and the place where they are fired from work, and you can't throw workers in the street, you can't throw them out, you can't break the law. Two: We also call on Bali Yıldırım, who is now the Speaker of Parliament: If he is sincere, please do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0092par0087	Thank you. Mr. Bankoglu, you have a request for a statement, please explain why.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0093par0089	The action of the Amasra mine workers continues with a life-threatening threat...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0092par0090	Okay. Here you go, Mr. Bankoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0093par0093	Thank you, Mr. President. 209 workers were laid off on 21 September 2018 at the Amasra Mining Company of Hema Electric Productions Corporation. Workers have not been able to obtain severance pay, fifty-one days' wages, and holiday bonuses with legal rights. Therefore, my brothers Bulent and Serdar, who I personally visited, have been acting for five days in a tower about 55 metres high, and our other workers are supporting them from below. From here, I call again on both the company and the Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources to keep their promise that the problem will be resolved, and I repeat that I will continue to work in the field and in the presence of our supreme Assembly to be the voice of our fellow workers once again. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0094par0097	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we continue our negotiations. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, our Kars MP is Mr. Ayhan Bilgen. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0095par0105	Mr. President, we all know that the Civil Code isn't just the Civil Code, even though our agenda is the Civil Code. The perspective of politics in Turkey is also directly related to Parliament's reputation, reputation, naturally the content of the Interior Charter, and the way it prepares. We will, of course, see if by testing the new system in practice, once again, it has actually strengthened balance control or brought it to a more threatening point, together. We thought otherwise, and we ran a campaign saying that, but as a result, you argued that that would be the case with the presidential model. Now we're in a place where we can practice. So the Civil Charter will actually be a test of the April 16 referendum, and there will be an experiment, an application, a chance for the truth to come out. There's no turning back history. It's not the presidential system or the parliamentary system, but how to make the situation today more democratic, how to make it legal, how to talk about it. We all know that as much as the content of a legislation, the method of preparation is decisive. Today, we chose to act constructively because it had an open attitude; instead of being inclined to talk for three minutes, five minutes more, in Turkey, the Parliament was seen as a platform that can be acted together in things that can be agreed on, not as a place where parties fight and struggle, but as a place that can be seen as a common ground. Of course, our idealized text does not respond to these changes, we will continue to defend it, and we believe that the rights of the opposition, as we've stated from the beginning, should be seen as a more involved act of law, before law enforcement comes to the General Assembly, in commissions, especially in the more time spread of the opinion of NGOs, the relevant institutions, the academy, the more time-consistent, the more legitimateity of the legal process, but at the same time, as a distraction of the rights of the opposition, as if it were not perceived as a waste of time, and the opposition of society should be seen as an active role. Dear lawmakers, there are essentials to a country's balance-responsibility system. The most classic of all, the most traditional is the separation of powers, the fact that the separation of powers between legislation, executive and judiciary is effective, the first condition of balancing, but that's the oldest definition. So two more important steps have been taken in the world -- I mean, outside the system debate -- two more important steps have been taken in the presidential or parliamentary or presidential systems. One of them is actually playing a supap role that democratises the system because the power of local governments will stabilize the centralist system. So if local governments are not strong, central custody is impossible to talk about if there is a serious balance-responsibility system on the budget, on decisions, or on jobs, if they are very strong in getting elected. The most critical topic for the final and perhaps new era's decision-making processes is the potential and capacity to oversee the system of civil society and media. If the demands of interested organisations in a country are not moved to Parliament, then there is no strong balance-responsibility system if the institutions of a country are not able to make their voice known, they are experts, they are working, and they are unable to make their voice heard to parliament, or the Parliament does not enter into an approach that meets their expectations. It could be a professional institution, it could be a association, it could be a foundation, it could be a union, but in the end, each of these organizations works for the community, sometimes as much as politicians do for the greater social interest. When we ignore their demands -- many of them volunteer organizations -- we know best. We get into the mood. It's a false perception. Even if we really know the truth, there will always be a part of us missing because we don't do it by talking to them. And the last title, I think, is as important as the civil society, and the second leg is the media, dear friends. It's one of the things that is essential for the media to watch, to see, to track, to have a strong balance-responsibility system. Look, commission work... we all testify to the same thing. I'm sorry if different commissioners have different practices, but the view we've seen is that during the opening, the commissioner gives a protocol speech, and then he takes the cameras out. Dear friends, why do we need this? Commission work is not a show for us, not for society at all. And the government shouldn't see it that way, and they should also say their own words on commissions, which, of course, society should see, but the opposition should also be able to speak. We are not in a ceremony, not an opening, so it will be in one part of the press, and it will not be in the other. There is no need to take a stand. We have nothing to hide from society. After all, if we're doing something in the interest of this country in the commission, let's hear what everyone else has to say there. Of course, let's all say it in a reasonable manner, so let's not talk for half an hour and turn it into a rally, but when everyone makes a reasonable statement, the community will see its own choice and its reflection in the House, and it will measure its worth. I don't want to go into very long, international examples, but just as parliament is the common gain of humanity, we have no chance of ignoring good examples of parliamentary practice in the world, my friends. So since Congress is one of the most democratic examples of the presidential system, there's no time in the United States to explain the work of the House of Representatives, of course, but it's very specific that the Congress Research Centre alone can contribute to the work potential, the number of staff, the library, and even its production from the kitchen. Again, we monitor how it does the control function from time to time, at least from some international broadcasts. We all know from ambassador assignments to court appoints, or in some form of corruption claims, that the vice presidents or bureaucrats come to the House of Representatives, how they answer in Congress, how they answer in full disclosure, how everything is spoken out. Again, in England, which is referred to the beginning of parliament, I think there are important examples, very critical examples, mechanisms. I think doing concrete model work on these things is one of the most important needs of this House for the new era. Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few examples of some practical problems that we've encountered here, and how this place has handicaps about how we can afford it. We often discuss foreign policy issues on the basis of international agreements. Some of these deals are very symbolic. So even a deal about sending three or five soldiers gives us 20 minutes to talk foreign policy, at least to groups. Now, that's actually desperation from not being able to do the job properly. I mean, that deal has to go through here really fast, not even to discuss it, not to mention it, but since we can't talk on another platform, it's only in that environment that we get to say what we say about foreign policy. For a simple comparison, for example, there are interesting developments in the Caucasus, especially now that the attention is being turned into the Middle East. Duma recently removed 34 of the 35 main languages used in the Caucasus, and put them in the elective category. This is a critical development in which the rights and freedoms of the peoples living in the Caucasus are restricted and therefore critical to Turkey's claims. Where are we gonna talk about this? If this House isn't going to bring this up on itself, if it's not going to matter, who's going to care? Social conflicts have begun in the Caucasus. They pit the bubbles and the Balkans against the Chechens and the Ingush. We know the consequences of this anti-distribution strategy. Do we have to talk here when it turns into a conflict like the Middle East? Do we have to have more agendas here when curfews bring social outbursts, riots, Syria-like? So I think we need to work together in power or group one or group one, in order to get the right information together, to get the right information and do whatever it is necessary, rather than perceive and interpret that it can function as something against Turkey's interests, as if it were an contrary thing to Turkey's foreign policy. The last thing I want to talk about is the dignity of Parliament and the way lawmakers work. Look, last weekend, the press release in front of the Istanbul branch of the IHD Office of their mothers on Saturday -- their mothers' demands on Saturday -- has already been held in Galatasaray, which is now being held in front of the IHD. Even the security guards there won't let them do it inside, he says. See on social media how a police officer treated Hüda Kaya (Hüda Kaya) while our MPs were chatting with security forces about how to build it in front of the building. Dear friends, not just because he's our MP, not only because he's our party member, but if a law enforcement officer starts to see a relationship as normal by hitting it off, pushing it in the back of his hand, yes, that day only Huda Kaya will get hurt, broken, maybe we'll react, but in total, his reputation will get hit, the congressman's reputation will get hurt. Of course, we don't say that we've seen something superior to lawmakers, that no citizen should be treated like this, but the MP represents something that means something to the community when he's demanding it, and the treatment that he's going to be given is actually not just to one person, but to a whole community. If the treatment of another member of parliament at another party during the first opening here is unacceptable, the same must be done on the street, in the press statement, in the same seriousness all over life. Dear friends, I'm not going to make a very long assessment of the parliamentary hearings, but in the process that we've opened it in the process of removing the immunity of many of our friends, including myself, including this constitutional amendment, I'm reading only a fraction of the Constitutional Commission's own sentence, a brief chapter of Mr. Sentop. He says that those chosen in the case of a resumption of immunity, the immunity of parliamentary immunity, will be restored because there is no regulation for this verdict. So that's the word of your Commissioner, Mr. sentop, a constitutional lawyer. But the House did so when they made the law. We criticised, we opposed, we thought it wasn't true, but if it's not the law, then who's he gonna tie up? What are we doing here if the judges are gonna hang around? What's the point of what we do? If there's no commitment to what we're saying, what are we going to discuss? More interesting freak: Dear friends, the decision has been made to stop the trial of our Alican Önlü MP first. That's how the text I just read was read, and that's how it's read in the Constitution, it's very clear. But last week, the retrial was decided. He stopped it based on what, why did he start it? Unfortunately, there's nothing we can understand legally except political opinions. Dear friends, we're drafting a research proposal -- I've expressed it last week, and once again -- experts here, of course, are doing a lot of work, making a valuable contribution; they say that if we don't remove the word "rant economy" from its research proposal, it can't be downloaded to the General Assembly. Now, what's hurtful and hurtful about the word "rant economy," dear friends? That's an economic term. If we can't even use this, how are we going to use the control function, what's the point of the research proposals, how are we going to argue here? Do we all have to use the same language, praise the same thing, criticize the same thing? Of course, we are the opposition and we will be critical. There's a democracy here until it's put up with it. And we, of course, are finally going to stand up to what happened. Let me finish with a last example; this is an interesting example. Mr. President, I won't take too much advantage of the time, but in a minute, I think I'll be done. Look, I brought this to point out how critical it is to perform an audit function.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0096par0125	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0095par0126	I'm showing it because the TMMOB Chamber of Computer Engineers has fallen to social media -- there's a big file about the discrepancies in the June 24th elections, one very concrete, one by one, that shows the difference between the minutes in the A party's hand and the minutes in the election board. Now, we're not going to be able to reverse the election from now on, we can't afford to change it, but the room has prepared something, and if we don't set up a commission here and investigate it, then the debate about the election will take a lot longer, move to other platforms. But we want the debate to be consumed here, and there really is a basis for social persuasion. Dear friends, he is not among us now, but a law-enforcement MP from the ruling group who chaired a commission last semester, he writes about Omar Kaveli at 3:30 a.m. two days ago, saying: "Omer Kavili, you know a lawyer was arrested first because of what he said in the trial, and then he was released. He's critical, he's right, he's critical. I mean, there's no explanation for the arrest of a lawyer based on a concept like reverse psychology, but we know that...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0096par0129	Mr. Bilgen, complete. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0095par0131	... Since a judge has no right to write legislation, he may have the highest right to interpret what is written in the legislation. The judge, dear friends of a lawyer, defends the victim by applying psychology and tries to make the victim look as if he is not guilty. Can he arrest the lawyer by setting up a sentence in his fingernails? Is that even possible? What's the meaning of the profession, what's the value? What's reverse psychology? If such a law has not been passed, how does the judge put the concept of psychology into the category of crime? I mean, if the judges have the authority to make laws, let's talk about something else, or else he's got to do it. Now, we want lawmakers to tell the truth, not after the MPs have fallen, but the truth, while they're in charge of their duties, and maybe we can all find the great truth here, together, and whatever step there is in the interest of the country, whatever group is taking, whatever party is taking that step, whatever it is that's taking, let's do it together. I salute the General Assembly, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0097par0135	Thank you, Mr. Bilgen. Dear MPs, now it's time for the Republican People's Party Group to speak on behalf of our Istanbul MP, İbrahim Özden Kaboğlu. Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0098par0139	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear President, first of all, I wish you the best of your mission. I try to listen carefully to the talks. The fact that we're witnessing the search for law by a High Assembly who created law is also a contradiction, but perhaps a hope. I'll address the contradictions, but without missing hope, without neglecting the door to hope. Indeed, it is important that last Thursday we meet at least -- even at least -- in order to demonstrate the importance of political reconciliation. This meeting has made us happy, and I hope that at least this compromise will continue at the stage when the Civil Charter change is being made more comprehensive in the second step, because of the fact that the constitutional amendment was originally made by a conflicting approach, its advocates, its opponents, its opponents, and I hope that this agreement will continue at the same time as the second step. But this compromise will not only continue in the Civil Code change, but in the Laws, and also in the Constitution, because without this agreement, without this agreement, it can't really go beyond being the hope of the law, rather than a parliament where more fights come forward. Yes, they stressed the importance of the Civil Charter, MPs, and indeed for a country, what is the constitution for a state, for a parliament, it is for a legislature, and in this regard, the internal charter is important. The Civil Code is the minimum threshold of legislative activity. If we can make a more comprehensive change before we're satisfied with this minimum change, then we can say that the Great National Assembly of Turkey could be an important center of its own balance and control mechanism. In this regard, while I'm waiting for further steps to be taken in the Civil Code, I think there's a necessity beyond the benefit of our Parliament's immediate consideration of the legislative agenda, as I'll mention it a little later. But, of course, since a significant portion of the talks are tied up in the Constitutional question, I can't pass without mentioning the basic qualities of our Constitution, our constitutional law. Two concepts are set -- from Tanzima, from the Law, from the Constitutions of the Republic to this day -- our constitutional developments: One, continuity; two, break or break. Now in this process, despite the impacts, even though it was delayed, constitutionalism in Turkey, according to the West, in the last quarter of the 19th century -- we can clearly say that in the 20th century, there is a great parallel between Western constitutionalism and Turkey's constitution. What is the situation at the beginning of the 21st century, which is often discussed here today? Of course, if you approach it in terms of facts, it might be possible to describe it. Because these changes are fundamentally, in extraordinary circumstances and circumstances, which were announced after July 15th, very quickly, and the least encouraging part of our reconciliation on the basis of the Internal Charter is the way and method of changing this text. The extraordinary state, which was indeed announced on the night of July 20th, was based on the purpose of the establishment of the constitutional order, which had been broken on July 15th, but there was a double deviation. First, the constitutional amendment; second, the sanction of thousands, tens of thousands, who have nothing to do with the state of emergency. Therefore, the consideration of this constitutional order or constitutional amendment must be taken into account for these conditions and conditions. We've been through this, the international organization reports that Turkey is a party to, from the Venice Commission to the OSCE. Its essence is: Since the State of State and the State of Emergency cannot be used for free constitutional information in the environment and conditions, there can be no constitutional consensus, there can be no constitutional amendments in many constitutions, as there are open provisions written on the basis of a democratic legal state -- although it may not be -- but the principle of this comparative constitutional law is being followed -- cannot be made. Especially if this constitutional amendment is a very radical constitutional amendment, you should have avoided it. I'll tell you right away why you should avoid it. The Constitutional amendment, adopted on January 21, 2017, was sent to the presidency on February 2, 2017, signed by the President on February 10, 2017, and published the following day in the Official Gazette. Although the Commission and the General Assembly talks were done so quickly, it took twenty-one days for the Constitutional Amendment to be sent to the presidency 12 days later and signed nine days later, while the Commission and General Assembly talks lasted a total of 18 days, but the text to be published in the Official Gazette after it was adopted. But the conflicting situation is not just because of this speed. The conflict is the main contradiction between 18 days and 30 months. In 18 days, it has been postponed to 30 months after the most radical constitutional amendment in our history has been made, even though it has been achieved. Since the state of emergency will continue for two years, why is it compressed into 18 days for two years; one. If this amendment will take effect in 30 months, why is this amendment compressed into such a short period of time? We can multiply these kinds of questions, contradictions. A definition of a legal state is to be reasonable, to be moderate, and when you overstep the principle of modesty, you also violate the rule of law. There's no need to go to another country, the second article of our Constitution is the democratic state of law, and it's an immutable clause. Now, as noted earlier in this regard, the constitutional balance and control structure, which is the main axis of our Constitutional Article 2 of the Constitution, must be brought forward, the principle of duty, authority and responsibility, the principle of accountability. In terms of these three principles, this Law 6771 must be thoroughly studied. When we examine these three principles, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but as a constitutionalist, we also see that the minimum requirements of these three principles are not met. In terms of duty, authority and responsibility, Mr. President has expressed here that I am the only person in charge. He said, "I am the one person in charge." But Mr. President is not facing any responsibility except criminal responsibility, just criminal responsibility. It's not a legal responsibility to answer to the public, because if you run for office, but if you're the President for the second time, you can't even run for office. So, Congressmans, it's one thing to put the concepts in place, another to defend a certain political opinion. Unfortunately for these three principles, Law No. 6771 appears in the form of a deviation from the minimum requirements of the state of law, and especially the participant President's rule of separation violates the principle of men's separation. In this regard, the first Constitution can be made: 1877 Committee-i Vukela and the double Parliament, 2017 Single Assembly and one person's execution. Second determination: January 1921 Parliamentary government, July 2018, the non-governmental Parliament and we come to: the Constitution of 1982 was a response to the 61 Constitution, but the 2017 amendment is a reaction to Ottoman, republican constitutionalism and political gains, meaning a rejection of a legacy. This is a double alienation of our constitutionalism. By means of the boards since Tanzimat, and through consultation, the understanding of management, implementation and tradition were ended in a time period that was not suitable for doing so and for no good reason. So the constitutional and political heritage, described as the people's background, was ignored. At the same time, constitutional principles have been violated. The 3K chaos, which I'm particularly concerned with in practice, can be stated here: The first is the victim of decrees in the rule of law. The persecution of decrees under the law is so broad that 150,000 people have been placed in the laws of the state of emergency. They have no right to apply. In an environment where forgiveness is discussed for 60,000 people in particular, over 100,000 people are also lacking the right to judicial application. Just considering their children, let's say that there's about a thousand of them, two children in every family, 300,000 children were executed without trial, at midnight. Of course, we're going to bring in students from outside the country to be taken away from the work rights of the victims, to be taken from international freedom of travel, especially from outside the country. The fact that 7,000 professors are essentially kept away from universities without account, without having the right to judge them, is also a crime against humanity, and so on. Of course, it's a duty of the High Assembly to make it up to you. In this regard, after the Supreme Assembly has passed this Civil Code, after it has been approved, it is essential that after voting, the legislature of the Supreme Assembly, first of all, to enforce the laws of the law. The State of Emergency decree, specifically the final decree, is to check on this, and through the provisions of the State of Emergency law, it is to bring the regulations of which people are actually subject to sanctions here and give them up and subject them to the legal process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you could just give me a minute...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0099par0151	Here you go, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0098par0152	This great House must have its legislature. This Parliament, which has the power to establish binding rules for everyone, must surely reassemble the large set of legislation, the state of emergency regulations that I have just mentioned, and even if they are not revised, their sediment will continue for the 21st century, even if the state of emergency is removed three years later. In this regard, in order to look forward to the future, we must have our constitutional and political achievements; one. Two: In 21st century societies, personal power no longer applies to the constitutional project based on individual power. We must bring this to the agenda of the High Council.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0099par0155	Let's wrap this up, Mr. Kaboglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0098par0156	Here, please, in terms of the distinction between horizontal men and vertical men, we have to say that such a person, such a system, can only function in federal states because there are many states there, there may be top presidents. But in a unitary state like this, it's actually unsustainable to give so much overpowering authority to one person. This unsustainableness must be dealt with along with the issue of legitimacy and alienation. And my final words, ladies and gentlemen, this is a Parliament that makes law, the High Assembly. Returning to law should be considered with the autonomy of the law, and it is essentially the body of authority that should continue these parliamentary debates with a nonpartisan approach, and perhaps the Constitution, as the President stressed in his opening speech, should be called the Constitution. My view as a constitutionalist is that it can also be interpreted as calling on the Supreme Assembly in a covert way to overcome the obstacle to the functioning of this system. In this regard, my wish, after accepting this amendment to the Civil Code -- this will be the first step, of course, as we wait for the second phase -- is to first consider the extraordinary state of state in the parliament's agenda that disrupts the peace of society, disrupts the public order, but essentially not content with it last year...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0099par0159	Mr. Kaboglu, I'll give you one more minute to greet.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0098par0160	Yes, I salute you. ...it must be the duty of this great state of state to start working for the democratic state of law, as it has written in Article 2 of the Constitution, in accordance with Turkey's own gains by discussing these provisions, which have been foreign to the savings of the Ottoman-Turkey since Tanzimat (Tanzimat). I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0100par0164	Thank you, Mr. Kaboglu. Mr. Gergerlioglu, you've entered the system. If you can make a statement why, I promise.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0101par0166	I'd like to talk to you about the environmental issues in Dilovasi.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0100par0167	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0101par0170	For many years, there has been a major environmental problem in the Negali Dilova, and unfortunately, the people have been left homeless, helpless. Two months ago, we asked Vice President Fuat Oktay. Why the environmental observation proposals in the Dilovas' Parliamentary Research Commission Report in 2006 have not been implemented; there is still no answer. However, the people of Dilova are still dying, their health continues to deteriorate, two thirds of the children are asthmatic, bronchitis disease, and the locals are rioting. The other day, they cut off the Osman Gazi Bridge, preparing to intercept TEM and E5 in the coming days. Thousands are extremely angry because their health is failing. Incredibly, we have received word that there is no negative situation, but the public's health has been badly disturbed. That's because...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0100par0172	Yes, thank you. It's an important matter, and I hope those interested will do the trick. Mr. Axeman, you have a voice request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0102par0176	It's about the full disaster in Kastamon.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0100par0177	Get well soon. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0102par0180	Thank you, Mr. President. On 13 September 2018, thousands of our citizens were victimised by the hailing, heavy rain and the subsequent floods in Kastamon. In the disaster that injured 33 of our citizens, 6,412 homes and businesses, 10,790 vehicles, 6,060 farmers and 260,250 acres were damaged. Electric services in the city centre and 180 villages have been cut off, electrical services have been disrupted for five days, and there have been disruptions in the neighborhood and village roads. Before this extraordinary weather event, Kastamonon was not warned by any institution or channel, so the injury reached these dimensions. In total, 23,262 citizens from the pardon were injured, but only sent a day's allowance of $1,952, 250 for the palace to heal the wounds. The allowance has only been addressed to 2,364 victims. That number is not enough to compensate for the victims. Once again, I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0103par0185	Thank you. And we wish you well. Mr. Durmusoglu, you have a voice request. Explain his motive to the General Assembly. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0104par0190	Something to do with our martyrs in Hakkari Çukurca.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0103par0191	Yes, sir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0104par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. At 12 p.m. on October 9, 2018, my Ottomanian brother Ali Çakçici, who worked as a ladle operator in the base area held by the Hakkari Çukurca Trust Mountain region 2, was killed by a missile attack carried out by members of a separatist terrorist organization from the north of the country. I curse the terror organization once again, and ask God's mercy for all our martyrs. In the same case, my fellow workers who were injured while working as workers, Mehmet Pine, Omar Tavat and the contractor, Mehmet Altun of Gaziantep province, ask for immediate healing from our brothers and sisters, God bless our nation's heads.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0103par0195	Thank you. Dear MPs, on behalf of the groups regarding the proposal of the Interior Charter, the final address is on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group in the name of our Chankırı MP, Mr. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0202	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the esteemed lawmakers to make a amendment to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. On this occasion, I salute each and every one of you. I pray that the new age of legislation will bring blessings to all our MPs, all our parties, and all our beloved nation, and the blessings of God. Dear friends, as it is known, the texts that regulate the work of legislatures themselves, the working procedures and the foundations of the legislatures, we call the rules the civil code. Civil regulations have been considered silent constitutions in the literature as a form of text that is considered to be the internal law of each assembly, in which they carry political importance. According to the laws hierarchy pyramid, domestic regulations must be in accordance with the constitution, which is the highest law norm, otherwise unthinkable. As a matter of fact, Article 95 of the 82 Constitution, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey conducts its work according to its provisions. The 88th article has made it clear that lawmakers are entitled to propose the law, and that law proposals will be held in accordance with procedures and fundamentals with the Internal Charter. The Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which was adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, was adopted by our nation of national sovereignty on 16 April 2017, and the Constitution of Turkey's Parliamentary government system was adopted instead of the Parliamentary government system. Of course, there are different regulations for the changes made in the implementation dates, but on June 24th 2018, all changes have been implemented, and it is imperative that the differences between the new constitutional regulations that envision the presidency's government system and the existing Civil Code provisions be met. On the other hand, before the opening of the new year of the October 1st legislature last week, during the consultation held at the chairmanship of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, Mr. Bulali Yıldırım, all of our members of the group have made a statement of will to the Commission to come together as a joint text to work on this technical work and harmonisation. As a result of joint proposals from all parties in the negotiations held by the Commission, this charter has been adopted and has come to your attention. On this occasion, I would like to thank Mr. Speaker of Parliament, our Deputy President Mustafa Sentop Bey, who is representing him, our Commissioner Bekir Bozdağ Bey, our members of the Constitutional Commission, the members of our party's group, and all the MPs who have contributed there. A technical harmony in a culture of compromise has come to your attention today. By the way, I would like to point out that, like all parties, we, like all parties, have been able to work our way through the spirit of the new system -- more democratic, more involved, more transparent, more legislative, and more control functions -- and while we're doing a brand-new arrangement of the spirit of the new system -- we're going to take the time to talk about this, and we're going to do it together, and we're going to do it together, and we're going to do it together, and we're going to do it together, and we're going to do it together, and we're going to talk about it, and we're going to talk about it, and we're going to do it in a way that we're going to be more democratic, and we're going to do it with our own, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it in a way, and we're going to do it in the spirit of our own way that we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it in a way, and we're going to do it in a way, and we're going to do it, and we're going to do it in a way, and we're going to do it in a way, and we're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it're going to do it, and we're going to do it're going to do it, and we're going to do it in a new. Dear friends, with this proposal, the deregulation of the amendment in the Constitution to the Interior Charter, despite changes made in the laws of various dates, the deputation of the provisions that remain in the Civil Code, which have been unfunctioned and ineffective in the Constitution, the removal of the provisions that have been established in force of the Presidents, and the adoption of the First Order of the Interior Charter as a ruling, and the adoption of the Council of Ministers, as part of some issues that are in practice, in accordance with technical compliance, has been adopted, and with an approach to the adoption of these internal regulations, from 550 percent to 600 percent of the number of members, in order that some of the Presidents have been appointed, in place of the first amendments, as part of the Council of the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, and that the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Council of the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, the Council of the Council of Ministers, the Council of the Council of Ministers, with the Council of Ministers of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers, with the Council of Ministers, with the Council of Ministers of Ministers, with the Union of the Union of Ministers, with the Council of Ministers, the Union of Ministers, the Union of Ministers, the Union shall shall shall shall, with the Council of Ministers, with the Union of the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, and its of Ministers of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union of Ministers, with the Union shall, with the rights, and the Union, with a strict, the rights, and the rights, the rights, with the Union of the rights, the rights, the rights. Also, I would like to point out, dear friends, that in addition to the political, legal and administrative responsibilities of the president and his president, the criminal responsibility has been added to the Civil Law, as well as to the mandatory outcome of constitutional amendments to the presidential government system, which has no responsibility except treason in the parliamentary government system. So this is a very important issue. In all aspects, the president is in charge of both political and legal responsibility and control. Also, in the parliamentary government system, the methods of investigation of people serving as prime ministers and ministers have been followed in the same manner, and a very important issue has been found in this Interior Charter, where the presidential decrees, which were issued in extraordinary situations, will be automatically invalidated in the absence of meeting in the General Assembly within three months. So these are indeed arrangements and adaptations that reveal the spirit of the system and the difference between the parliamentary government system and the Presidential government system. I'd like to point out that a direct reflection of democracy, the fact that the laws and executives themselves are defined separately and directly by the people who own it, the people who own it, the people who have it, the balance, the control, and the accountability, has been able to take full action on this occasion. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, it's important to remember these issues. The 1982 Constitution, you know, wasn't really a constitution that envisioned the parliamentary system. When we look at its provisions, however, seeing the President as the head of the administration and giving the Council of Ministers a separate authority, giving the prime minister and the President, who are head of the Council of Ministers, many powers relating to legislation, executive and judiciary, and thus considering a system of two heads as a parliamentary system, should not be accurate in terms of constitutional literature. Because it was only the Constitution of 1982 that predicted an arrangement of its own presidential system. I'm passing... by 2007, a presidential election took place in Turkey. This parliament involved various cataclysms in 2007, and the President was not elected. The whole legal system has been changed, different decisions have been made, etcetera. Let's go to the nation that owns the government. It was called a referendum, and as he went to the referendum, the Constitution voted that the President, who was the head of the Republic of Turkey, was then elected directly, not by Parliament's will, but by the will of the nation, you know, by the people's vote, by the way of the people and by the democratic and legitimate elections that took place in 2014. Yes, as this process went on, we were caught on July 15th, and we were subjected to a coup and an invasion, all together. So we have put a will together, and indeed, our President, who is the head of the state and the head of the nation, called out to the squares, saying, "Let's go to the dead!" Indeed, the whole nation -- you will walk, the nation will walk behind you. As he said, 81 million of our poets -- have won a great victory under the leadership of our President. And then, 80 years ago, our state-political people, our government community, all of them, instead of the joint parliamentary government system, were captured, and together, the Turkish nation, the Republic of Turkey, the republic's regime, the Republican regime, the parliamentary government system, the presidency, should continue its course, not with the presidential government system, but with its proposals, its proposals, its demands, and again, here, with the longest talks in the history of the Constitutional Commission, again, in the General Assembly, in the same way, in this way, in our nation's community, and in this way, yes...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0106par0215	49.5% Mr. Akbasoglu...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0216	...that the state of the Republic of Turkey will no longer continue with the parliamentary government system, but with the presidential government system. Well, dear friends, we're not looking back anymore.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0107par0218	The presidential government system never passes through the ordinances under the law.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0219	Sir, we will no longer look back, our nation has left the parliamentary government system behind. This system was our system. All gains from Ottomans to Seljuklu to Ottomans, from Ottomans to republics are common gains for all of us. So our parliamentary law goes back a long way. All these savings, the acquish is our common history, but I'm the horse from our common past. As the poet says, we need to find a future together. The past is the past, my dear, and the new things must be said. He says, Your Majesty, therefore the parliamentary government system is behind us. How can we all sail, together, forward, forward, always towards Redmelma, together, when the presidential government has captured this beautiful environment, when we have established this culture of reconciliation? So I hope we can all share our share in this matter. That's a good start, dear friends. I told you on the commission, I'll repeat it here. Ataullah Alexanderi has a beautiful saying: "The one with a bright finish will also have a bright end. " The one with a beautiful beginning will also have a good end. So we all got off to a good start, fellas. We'd like to continue this announcement.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0108par0222	Mr. Akbasoglu, I'd like you to...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0223	It'll take two minutes, I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0108par0224	You're welcome.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0225	My dear friends, my speech is a little longer, but since we're shortening the conversation, I'm just giving up my speeches. I'd like to present to you a little anecdote in the Messy of Mesanna. I'd like to share it with you. He's a great man, really. By UNESCO, I believe, a year of Israel was declared in the middle of the 2000s, and that's when we read the Mesnevel. There's an important, beautiful story in there that I've noticed about today. From there, you know, like La Fontaine, the fabl, sir, and other talks give us lessons, advice, good messages to the general from centuries ago, to all of our common pasts and forwards. What is it? One is Turkish, one is Arab, one is Greek, one is Fars, four is international -- they work together in a business. And he that worketh, giveth him a silver dirham for four of them, and saith unto him, Go in, and do it with it. The Turk says, "Let's take this one dirham with grief, let's take it that way." The Greek says: "No, no, no, let's take it." The Farisi says: "Let's take it, it's not that, it's not that, let's take it, it's that." When it comes to Arab, it's that I don't want any of it. They're starting a fight. Then, after telling this story, His Majesty the Lord says... One minute more and that's final.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0109par0228	Yeah, sure, go ahead, we're just wondering how it ends.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0229	Thank you, Mr. President. ...a man of the heart, a man of language, a man of sound language, but if he were to tell them in a good way that four different demands mean the same thing and that he wants the same thing, there would be a reason for their dissension, a revelation, a unity, and solidarity. So, dear friends, this is what we need, we understand each other, we listen to each other, and we build our collective future together on the great acquish from our past. In that sense, Mr. President, in his October 1st speech from this platform, let's all do our services together; come, let's all raise Turkey together; let's all do economic, prosperous, improved Turkey together. I repeat this call, thank you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0110par0235	Mr. Akbasoglu, thank you. Of course, the more you talked about it, the more you left it at the end of the deadline, the more we all wondered. I mean, would it be possible not to promise you?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0105par0237	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0110par0238	Thank you, thank you, thank you very much. Dear lawmakers, the talks for the groups are complete. Mr. Celebrity, you've entered the system, please, sir, can you explain why?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0111par0241	One of the martyrs today is from Osmaniye.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0110par0242	Yes, in Osmaniye... yes, of course, of course, of course, of course. I'm sorry for our loss. Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0112par0247	We have two witnesses today in the attack of rogue terrorists from Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) in Çukurca district of Hakkari. One of them is Emre Güngör from Çukırkale Province, the other one is my citizen, Ali Çam from Düzici district. I curse terror. May God have mercy on our martyrs, and my condolences on their families. I wish the wounded a speedy recovery. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. I'm sorry for the cravale and the head of our province of Osmaniye. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0113par0250	Okay, thank you. I'm sorry for the loss of our nation. Mr. Koksal, you haven't been able to get into the system, but I'll turn on your microphone, you have a commitment request. Can I hear a reason first?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0114par0254	It's about the purchases in my constituency through the ICRU.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0113par0255	Well, here you are, please complete it. After that, we'll start talking on behalf of the individuals.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0114par0257	Thank you, Mr. President. Afyonkarahisar, my constituency recently was employed by 4,000 people on İSKUR to be employed by the Ministry of National Education in Afyonkarahisar. The interview was based on interviews, not on lots, when buying by ISKUR. And at the end of this interview, our fellow citizens have suffered a great deal of injustice. Before the lists were released, photos of ISKUR Director and AKP district executives were served on social media. Those close to the ruling party, while those with relatively good financial status are being hired, unfortunately, among our fellow citizens, those with worse financial status and those who really need the job remain exposed. The appeal to the governorate of Afyonkarahisar has been inconclusive. I'm calling to the governor of Afyonkarahisar, please cancel these purchases. Let the draw be drawn. Fairly, let the people, the people who really need the job, settle in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0115par0260	Thank you, Mr. Rootsal. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we will now begin our speeches on behalf of the individuals. The first word on his behalf belongs to our Manisa MP, Mr. Free Special. Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0268	Thank you. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. Last week we all returned from a major error, a major error in the Constitutional Commission. It was a relatively comforting and promising development, given the practice of the past Parliament, the way the Justice and Development Party put this Parliament through, but let's not forget that after the Parliament Speaker's constitutional amendment, the internal charter amendment will be only technical regulations. The proposal after the promise was made far beyond that, we all object to it, and those arrangements were made with the contributions of five parties. Let our citizens know that our contribution is merely technical arrangements, and I would like to stress from here that we have not contributed to any changes that would directly and positively eliminate the balance control system, that the separation of forces has been put underfoot and that a single man on the basis of unity of forces has been contributed to the regime. We're here in Parliament, and we're doing the Civil Code, so we're making Parliament's own constitution, and that's what we're here to do. And in the future, we want to make a better Civil Charter with the participation and compromise of five parties, which all parties say. Of course, some people might try to exploit it with a longing for a parliament that will make it happen much faster than anyone expected, and then no one will have any doubt that we will show the most resistant reflex. But there were some studies and drafts that the Justice and Development Party had shown to the public in the past few weeks in particular, and I won't go into its contents, but they were made by a party that he was planning to receive, each with confidence in the majority or the support of a party that he was planning to take, and to lower the voice of the opposition. Well, dear lawmakers, we'd like to see how democracy parliaments around the world make these arrangements: three methods are rising in democratic parliaments. So we have many of us, if not, we'll lower the volume there, we'll come here, we'll fight, democratic parliaments won't say. Three trends are rising, and one of them is: if the internal charter is to change, it's to change most of the time, or even the high quality, most of the time. So those illegitimate, foreign elements, they say that if we're 600 people in their own parliaments, if we're three-thirds of them, if he accepts 360, let the internal charter change. You ask him what kind of trust is that? He says to the ruling party, "That's what democracy is. What's the second trend? Apart from the high-quality majority, the second trend: the growing democratic parliaments offer internal regulations only opposition parties. So the ruling party says: I don't have a reaction to the opposition's demand to lower or expand their control opportunities. If they ask, we accept, this honor, this honor, this self-confidence belongs to the whole parliament. Third: Look, when these external altars change the internal regulations in their own parliaments, they say: "The internal charter changes, the next term applies." I am in power today, and when I fall into opposition tomorrow, does this civil code give me enough control, enough say? They discuss it. Or they say, "I'm in opposition today, but can a parliament walk with this civil code tomorrow?" He argues. So, if we're going to make an internal charter -- you've hung the money of the world, the money of the nation -- to the Billboards, which is very confident -- if you really want a strong Parliament, if you really have a high self-esteem, if democracy is your issue, you'll come, you'll make an Internal Charter with one of these three trends that are rising in the world. Otherwise I am strong, and I bend the arm, and I surround the bench, and I wash it, and I wash it, and I leave it, and I take what I want. No one says. Would you do that? You have power, you do it; you have numbers, you do it; you find 301, you do it, but then you can't talk about democracy, then you'll be embarrassed, you'll embarrass us. Outside ministers don't hold you responsible for the situation you've brought into this country, but outside ministers consider Parliament as a whole, Turkey's democracy as a whole; it's very important. So, what's the offer, what's the job? The work is actually a confession of the Justice and Development Party's debate of legitimacy. Although a few minutes ago, Mr. Group Vice President said that most of the kahir is a slip of the tongue. What I know is that most of the time, when you say it's a lot of magic, it's a lot of it. 51 percent, which, according to you, is 51 percent with unsealed envelopes, and you call it a vast amount of magic. (Applause from CHP rows) The majority of Kahir is 70, 80, 90. If you call 51 percent a lot of magic, you're more concerned about your future.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0117par0277	Just the majority, just the majority.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0278	But I'll tell you this, very clearly: The citizens who voted 51 per cent in those changes now think that either I listened to the Free Special, or other valuable speakers of the opposition on TV, he said: "This system narrows down control opportunities." And he said: "Yahu removes the verbal question." The representative of AKP has also come out and said: "We are defending the separation of strict forces." Our citizen who gave you 51 percent, the citizen you convinced, the separation of solid forces, the Parliament that the ministers didn't come to, believed in them and voted for you? Now, the citizen asks the question: What if the minister, who will not even be able to answer the verbal question, now confesses that the AKP must come in very important situations, inform the Parliament, if he is called in?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0118par0280	Mr. Special, one moment...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0281	Mr. President, I think it started at 7:30 by mistake.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0118par0282	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0283	It would start in ten minutes, a minute and a half there... That's why a citizen who doesn't want what's rightfully his own.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0118par0286	Here you go, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0287	Thank you very much, Mr. President, my time was ten minutes, starting at 7:30. Now, here's the thing: Citizen, Uncle Nevzat in the village of the Hajials of Manisa. He says, "Ya, I believe these things, I voted." Now that they're confessing, the minister must come in, he must go in, he must answer the questions. Why doesn't he answer the verbal questions?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0119par0289	They've been tricked. They've been tricked.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0290	So he tricked us. Those who spoke of themselves as virtues of being deceived came, and deceived us here. Ahah this is this: this is the great argument of legitimacy, my brother. I wish you could produce a social consent that you would spend with 70 percent, as you say. It is 51; and 51 have been poured out all over it. What if you've done a job that you can't even do in the deadliest waters that you have to do for the most stormy of times? Let's be very clear: Two hundred fifty to two hundred seventy years ago, John Locke described the separation of forces, then developed Montesquieu and said the separation of the triad forces. John Locke spoke only of legislation, Montesquieu set the point. He said that democracy does not develop, states don't go forward if they don't control each other. Dear MPs, this is: After maybe a hundred years of those dates, if you're not discussing the right current, the right current, the alternative current, and then you're not discussing the alternative current, let's do something else that Edison found in this room. Or the fundamental problem here is that the electricity from the Keban Dam is coming here with the alternative current that Nikola Tesla has found, and you're not arguing about it, you're not arguing about the rule of removing Archimedes, you're going to go back and discuss the separation of Montesquieu's forces. If you had built a ship, you would have done it without taking into account the rules of the removal of Archimedes, and that ship would have gone down as soon as possible, and here's the example: you're getting out of the harbor, the international agreement, how we all support the agenda of this place, how we can all come to the agenda of this place... the Constitution is against the Constitution... we've contributed the world to solve it, it's still against it. The democratic ship, which you wanted to float like ship engineers who didn't agree to the rule of the lift of the Archimemet, sat on the rock before it came out of the harbor, I swear to God and God. You want to be called the IP, which you have demonized, misogynized, called the CHP, HDP, whose name you have used as an acronym, but you don't call your own name, but run, give one shoulder, our ship has landed before it comes out of the harbor. You said, "We've all contributed together, for now it's floating." But there's waves ahead, there's ice mountains ahead, there's storms ahead, and this ship doesn't swim, and it doesn't, by God, because you're against a fundamental rule, and you say: "The separation of forces is underfoot." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0120par0297	Mr. Special, continue, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0298	Mehmed Uçım, not my chief advisor, says the court's chief advisor, the one-man government. The chief advisor of the palace says that the ministers are technicians. These ministers say that they are no longer ministers, that the ministers are no longer looking inside the citizen, that they are looking into the President's mouth. In fact, I'll tell you something, we're chatting on the plane, and you're saying, "Ya, why is the MP in front of the minister in protocol?" And it's true. That's why we say this ship of yours doesn't swim. The bride is a new, true and true parliamentary system that predates the gains of the parliamentary system, precipitates the separation of forces from the right place when the road is short, which brings the law to its place and the judgment, not only with April 16th, but also by September 12th Fascism, to do so if there is a study that will remove the remains of her and save the country from the coupculator of September 12th. But the system of the presidency, which you call the presidential system, which is run from one place, I know everything. From day one, the system collapses, and you will accept it.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0120par0301	Mr. Special, let's complete.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0302	I'll wrap it up, Mr. President, I'll wrap it up. Other than that, there's a lot more to say, but there are new faces, we meet, we get together as much as possible.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0121par0304	Don't contradict people.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0305	I don't want you to get your hopes up about this guy being a regular congressman, and this friend could be here in another way.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0121par0306	We're here on our own terms. Go to Tripoli and ask him.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0307	It's always good to listen to the right word, to be open to contribution. Let me tell you, if you know us from A News, you must think that these are the bad guys. They object to everything. If we say two times two, four... there is no such thing. You've just heard, all the groups, we've all contributed to doing the right thing. From now on, the truth for the nation, the work for the public benefit is here on the stand, the group is here, the Republican People's Party is here, but in error, the wrongs, and in the unity of this country, the unity of this country, the dissolution of emotions, and we're here for you. This group isn't part of a conjunctural party.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0122par0310	Mr. Special, let's say hello.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0116par0311	I salute. This group is the oldest European political movement in the world, a hundred years of Turkey's tradition, while the tuition of this Parliament is being mixed up, that's the government's country. We're on the same ship, so we're going to be on the same ship, so that if it's not in the first place, we're going to continue the journey where those who put their lives on it on the 19 May 1919, and those who are firmly attached to the fundamental stake of that journey, the Ataturk principles and revolutions and modernizations, who are all in it together. We're with scientists, minds, us, contributors. Against the dogma, the superstition, those who surrender to one man. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0123par0315	Thank you, Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0124par0316	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0123par0317	Mr. Akbasoglu, you have a request.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0124par0318	I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0123par0319	Here you are, sir, from your position.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0124par0322	Thank you, my dear President. Very dear friends, of course, we've listened to our esteemed member of the group, but we need to make a correction. This offer is not a proposal from the EC PARTY Group, but I made it clear and clear in my speech. We're talking about a separate study of the spirit of a completely independent, new system, democratic, participatory, transparent, compromise based on the fact that the legislature will begin quickly, with the appointment of October 1st, and we're talking about the final version of a proposal that our Speaker himself has made regarding technical compliance with bureaucrats.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0123par0325	Mr. Akbasoglu, one moment... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0124par0327	Thus, this offer is not an offer from the EC PARTY. Secondly, there is a technical principle of non-interference between constitutional law, executive and jurisprudence. However, when we examine the proposal prepared in the existing Civil Code, we see that this principle is original when needed, but is limited to the exception of the exceptional adaptations of our parliament's information, such as the state of emergency, mobilisation, etc., or the expression of control authority over the execution of the law. I've been promised to clear this up, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0123par0329	Thank you, too. Dear MPs, the last word on behalf of the individuals belongs to our Adıyaman MP, Mr. İbrahim Halil Fırat. Here you are, Mr. Firat.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0125par0336	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, may your new mission be blessed. At the beginning of my speech, I wish God's mercy to our soldiers who died today in Hakkari, and to the wounded with urgent healing. Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Proposal to Make A Change. I hereby salute your grand delegation and the General Assembly. Dear friends, you know we've moved on to a new system, the presidential government system. You know, we've been working to transition from the parliamentary system of a hundred and fifty years from the presidential government system to the presidential government system, to Turkey, to the government system, especially after a coup attempt on July 15th, to change that for Turkey, to the presidential system, with the joint work we've done with the National Movement Party. You know, in the parliamentary system -- what we've always said -- we've been talking about a situation where lawmakers were elected, lawmakers were elected from within law enforcement, prime minister and ministers, and the execution was also a means of getting out of the law, and so, you know, with the work of law and execution, we had to separate completely from each other; we had to make a transition to a system where the separation of the presidency with the government system of men, the separation of forces was completely separate from each other, and for that last year, in 2017, you know, with the Constitution that we had done, with the work of the 16 April 16th, we had to support the country. In the presidential government system at that time, the two articles needed to be put into effect immediately, and that's when those two articles came into effect. Later, in the November 3, 2019 elections -- so this early election was not an issue -- there was a situation in which these Constitutional clauses would come into effect, along with the presidential government system. After an early election decision was made, the government system of the presidency came into force along with all institutions and institutions, especially with this constitutional amendment adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and this referendum, which our President was sworn in on 9 July 2018 at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. For this reason, the constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the constitution of the Parliamentary Law, the Civil Code, would certainly have to adapt to this government system, and to that end, we are conducting today's work in the General Assembly, which is the same way that all groups have come together and proposed and discussed last week in the Constitutional Commission, as we discussed and talked and spent a day in the Constitutional Commission, in order to harmonise the President's system. The amendments in the Constitution were necessary to change the Constitution and the Presidential Government's Constitution in accordance with the Constitution and the Presidential Government system. A comprehensive amendment must also be made to the Civil Code in order for parliament to be involved in the reform process. Despite the amendments to the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the amendments to the Constitution of Turkey and the amendments to the Constitution have been enforced on various dates, the selection of the provisions that remain in the Interior Charter, which remain ineffective and ineffective, the deregulation of law-making practices in the form of a strong constitution will be more likely to be addressed in accordance with technological developments in accordance with the adoption of regulations and changes in the Constitutional system. It is hereby intended for the Parliament to increase its legislative power and efficiency by harmonising the Presidential government system, so its proposal of the Civil Code aims to implement a more efficient and rapid legislation work and to make the presidency fit the government system. I wish the proposal to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, our country and our nation, with respect to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit02spe0126par0345	Thank you, Mr. Firat. Honourable MPs, such talks on behalf of individuals have been completed. Now we're going to go over the entire internal charter proposal for 20 minutes to answer questions, but since there are no members of parliament entering the system, we're moving on to the question-answer process. Dear lawmakers, negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that the proposal be passed, those who don't... those who don't... are unanimous. I'm taking a ten-minute break.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0126par0001	Dear MPs, I am opening the Third Session of the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Charter Proposal No. 4 rows. The commission is in place. We will now begin negotiations on the first article of the proposal. TIPING TO CONTINUE THE CHANGE OF THE MUSCLE OF ENGLISH Article 3 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 1-5/3/1973 and 584, has been added to the following joke. The vice president and ministers are the first to be joined after their appointment. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Mr. Meral Danış Beştaş, who wants to speak on Article 1. Here you are, Mr. Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0127par0010	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, yes, after the system change, we are working a shift today on the agenda of the change of the Civil Code following the general elections. In fact, this radical change began during the amendment process of the Constitutional Charter, and then, during the amendment, we had again spent a busy shift in the Constitutional Commission in Parliament; in the morning, we expressed our opposition to these changes on behalf of our party, on behalf of the HDP. And there is no doubt that this amendment, the amendment to the Constitution, and the amendment to the Civil Code after that, brought with it very severe results. Right now, we're all living together on the consequences of this difficult process. Despite the full abandonment of the principle of separation of forces, the transfer of all powers to a system without the meeting of the President, a system without balance and control mechanism, and even all the doubts that took place in the election, the unsealed ballots, but yes, with the official results, the system change was possible. In fact, we all live together, and in later times, we will experience these challenges in a much more severe way. Democracy has been put on hold and everything will be designed according to the whims of one person, one man, and we have tried to make a strong statement in the Constitutional Commission in the process of changing the Constitution. So what happened? At that time, we knew that only one person, in a simple way, had ruled the country, even though it had no basis in the Constitution, but after the referendum, the YSK decision became a lifeline, and the one man's regime also sat in a legal framework. After the referendum, we discussed the changes the Constitution has predicted in the parliamentary system -- you know, the friends who had been in Parliament recently -- and we discussed the internal charter changes, and they were actually very active, very powerful, but unfortunately, with the votes of the ruling party and, of course, the other party that it had allied with. So, what happened with these changes? Parliament's voice is broken. The legislature is requested to be completely defunctioned. We all know that the legislature of parliamentarians, ours -- the task of testing -- is actually wanted to be employed as officers of one man. Now, the separation of forces is actually a monster with only one tooth left, so we can safely say that. The executive who makes the judgment his official is also interested in reading his own way by shutting down the Parliament altogether. Think of a Parliament, yes, the Parliament where we are, and we are parliamentarians, and we are faced with a very serious pressure and different methods of expressing the current problems. The deadlines have been reduced, the motions for ten minutes have been limited to five and three minutes, the content of the motions we're going to give, what we're going to give, how we're going to express, have been assigned to Parliamentary legislators, Parliamentary Presidency, and the sentences have been dropped due to the talks made by lawmakers on this bench. You want samples? The use of the word "Kurdistan" by Osman Baydemir (Kurdistan) led to his removal from the General Assembly, and it was concluded. Again, last semester, our Istanbul MP, Garo Paylan, our friend, lost majority to genocide and massacres. He was sentenced for his words. Actually, there's some serious irony. He, who is determined not to lose his plurality, has struck the point right in the heart, and this time the Speaker of Parliament has made his primary intention known by punishing a pluralistic mechanism, a parliamentary speaker. Yes, we are the representatives of the people in Parliament, which should be based on public sovereignty. In this capacity, we are asked to prevent us from expressing the issues and demands of the voters. Well, then why are we here? Everyone can ask themselves that question together. We don't have to say the words of this Parliament's one-man regime or of the ruling members. We didn't agree to be extras yesterday, and we don't agree to be extras today. Yeah, how are we gonna look our voter in the eye? If we're prevented from telling what they're going through here, what kind of immunity, what kind of parliamentary power is there to discuss it in a really strong way? Yes, as the country bleeds, hunger, poverty takes its head off, every day a woman dies of murder somewhere, construction workers lose her life every day, and construction workers are arrested for saying it, we don't want war. While those who say it are tried and arrested every day, unemployment, exports make people bleed, while patients are left to die in prisons, while hundreds of children who remain with their mothers are still standing in front of us, while the raises that come every day make life even more difficult, while Kurdish workers are still expressed as a dream, while they are being exposed every day, while children are starving, we know that they are left to starve in the streets. No, we're not going to shut up, we're going to express it. We've said it then, and we'll keep saying it today. Yeah, what are we really in for? I've said that the time of our stand talks has been reduced, and I'd like to give some examples of our motions. We've had the demo of fascism, the one-man regime before, but we're in the middle of it right now. My motion is that the sick prisoners are not being treated. They were returned because I said so. The real reason is not to like the motion or to express the facts? Of course, it's the expression of the truth. Of course, they're uncomfortable with the expression of the truth, but it's our job to speak the truth. Almost the word "crisis" will be banned. In the province where I'm acting, our city general assembly member, our member, Idris Ilhan, is currently in Siirt Prison because he says "Dolar 7,15." He sent a single social media message. He said, "We're not going down because the dollar goes up, because we're going down." He's being held in prison with one sentence. So, what does this semester remind you of? I'd like to highlight this in particular. Yes, it reminds them of the Ottoman era, where they were doomed, and also of the period of Infidelity. It's been 30 years of lost time. What happened during this period? One man. Look, at that time, Abdulhamit banned the word "burun" -- a geographical term -- and banned the word "burun" in case it came to mind. What else did he do? The compounds that produce some flammable substances in chemistry were also banned, for example, because A and H are equal to zero, and Abdulhamite equals zero. The word "sister" is forbidden to refer to Sultan Murat (also known as "healer man"). It sounds like an exaggeration when you put it here, maybe it sounds ridiculous, but it's true, it happened in the historical background. And today many words are banned in this Parliament with the same logic. The word "torture" is forbidden, sir, and we can't write in our proposals. Why? Because there's no torture, there's no torture. We're witnesses to torture. How can we not express a matter that we have witnessed, that we have access to its data? The word "Assimulation" is also the most popular word of these years. And that's forbidden because there's no assimilation. There was no assimilation during a period where Kurdish names were removed from the signs that forbade speaking in Kurdish. But as these are banned, Parliament is running out of power. We're really going to keep saying that in this Parliament. Well, we've had a lot of blows, and today we're going through the center of a really big blow. So there's been some serious trauma left over here from September 12th, and there's still no face-to-face. Well, we still compared September 12th to today's very much from this bench. But, rest assured, at that time, it was not possible to pronounce the word "crisis" or "dolar" at that time. Crisis and lawlessness are proportional, actually. Why is the crisis growing? No democracy, no rights, no freedoms; the further away from the law, the deeper the crisis, the greater the lack of law over and over again. Yeah, we're in the same boat. They call it. We are not in the same boat as the oppressed, the workers, the women, the poor.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0128par0022	Mr. Beştaş, let's wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0127par0023	Thank you. Yes, when you say the same ship, the ship sinks, but they actually get off the ship with palaces and planes. And to get back to the point quickly, that's why we're all going to suffer when the brakes don't work in a system without balance and control, and there's no balance, no controls, no brakes, no downhills, 81 million people all together, in fact, a loss, a pain, a trauma. Yes, we have to say this: goodbye democracy, goodbye parliamentary system, or goodbye the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We keep being here so we don't have to say it. Yes, we had a concussion with their vanguards, with the Constitutional amendments, with the Civil Code. At that time, the change in the constitution included a high-profile regime that would disrupt the country's balance settings. I said that from here. I have complete control of this civil code of justice... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] My last words.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0129par0029	Mr. Beştaş, let's salute.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0127par0030	I'm sorry. I'm finishing, very little. Now, while the legislature is being abolished, the law's will remains in the decrees. In order not to exceed my time, I say, let's all work together to build a democracy in this country that is truly deserved by citizens. A democratic constitution, a democratic civil code, a climate where rights and freedoms really flourish, where they can express themselves, is possible because parliament is democratic. I'm saying we're never gonna be able to bring the light days in this way with the technical Civil Code regulations, and we're all going to be lost in this darkness together. Thank you very much. Mr. President, in the meantime, congratulations on your new assignment. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0130par0037	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Beştaş. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of groups on Article 1, the second word is from Mr. Feridun Bahshi, our MP in Antalya on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group. Here you are, Mr. Bahshi.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0131par0041	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the proposal of the Order of the Civil Charter to change Turkey's Grand National Assembly, which is ranked four. I salute you all. In the meantime, I wish you the blessings of two of our soldiers who were martyrs in Hakkari Çukurca, God rest their souls. I curse the PKK terror organization. Dear MPs, the Turkish Grand National Assembly President, Mr. Bali Yıldırım, has agreed to a proposal for a amendment to the Turkish Parliament's Constitutional Commission, which Mr. Bülli Yıldırım has appointed as an Izmir MP. I won't mention much about the amendment to the Civil Code, which has been agreed upon by the Constitutional Commission, which we are members of, but it is clear that the Council of Parliament, which has been in effect since 1973, has not met the need. The philosophy and system of the Civil Code have been corrupted, especially with changes made so far in 2017. With these changes, some of the provisions have been unequivocalized, and some of the practices that are not in the Civil Code have also been established. Turkey's Grand National Assembly, the legislature, must open the way for more efficient and effective work. So let's all make a new charter to make sure our great Veteran Assembly works more efficiently. As it is known, the Civil Code is the secret constitution of the House. Just as the agreement on social agreements should be carried out by the participation and acceptance of each part of the community, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be prepared and enforced by the participation and agreement of all MPs present in parliament without a party distinction. A commission should be set up on this issue and draft a charter draft by a commission each party's MPs are in charge of. Dear MPs, my statement on the charter ends here, and I'd like to make a brief mention of other important issues of Turkey. The first issue is that the problem with pensioners remains serious. Those who started working before 1999 began to work, thinking that they would retire at the end of the service period and bonus day, but were victimised by legal regulations. On the day they start, the bonus is that millions of people who can't retire and receive a month because they can't meet the age requirement, even though they have completed the day period, immediately demand that this arrangement be carried out. The number of people affected by the problem is about 7 million. AS A GOOD PARTY, we have proposed law to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. As far as we know, all the parties in parliament have also made promises during the election period about the problems of pensioners. To all parties, if you're sincere, let's treat this bleeding wound together and solve the problem. Another issue that keeps the public's agenda busy is the matter of attitude. Those who have retired in 2000 and then retired are expected to take action due to pay inequality. The judicial path for our millions of citizens is closed, and all of our pensioners are awaiting the immediate release of the law of plagiarism from our great Parliament. Honourable lawmakers are again awaiting additional 3600 indicators from teachers, police, nurses, religious officials and administrators, who have reached 2 million. Even so, all parties, especially the President, promised that this issue would be resolved before the election. AS A GOOD PARTY, we've made a legal offer on this, so let's all take care of this sacrifice together, and let's get the 3600 additional indicators removed. The other issue is that in today's terms, those who pay dearly pay 15,000 liras and are considered allowed in their work have no loss in the face of the deposit of insurance premiums. Today, the regular term of military service was twelve months, and before that, the regular term of military service was eighteen months. Because of military service, they earn the right to social security by paying a debt or insurance fee. According to this, 30 days of military service in terms of 2018 are $649, 12 months of military service, $7.794 lira, 18 months of military service, and 11.691 lira insurance premiums. And it's not possible for our people to pay so much insurance when the economy is in such a state that they can't afford to bring bread to their homes. In order to address this injustice, we have submitted our proposal to the President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to consider the term of military life insured. Also, in 2017-2018, we submitted our proposal to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for a year's postponement of loans, regardless of the damage our farmers suffered from disasters, regardless of whether the TARSIM insurance did it. With this proposal, we intended to repair the damage caused by Antalya Kumluca, Finike, Demre, Elmalı counties farmer and the Black Sea nut maker and farmers in other parts of the country. The nut maker still gives the trader the nut he's costing 15 liras. So far, the government has left the manufacturer at the mercy of the merchant, as no nut base has explained. The hope of the nut maker is that the state will quickly announce a base price that can't be harmed. We expect all parties to support the problems of pensioners, the problems of those waiting for 3600 additional indicators, the insurance of our long-term military citizens, the harms of our farmers who have been damaged at the end of the catastrophes, and the postponement of loan debts by a year. Let's all work together to make these proposals legal so that our troubled people can be comforted a little bit. Dear lawmakers, our citizens no longer have the strength to endure the rise in foreign currency rates, the rising cost of life and the increase of raises. When it comes down to it, the country grew, and the economy grew. You say, "Well, we don't have enough money to buy three kilos of tomatoes in a citizen's pocket." You're supposed to explain the economic program, decorate it with a few economic terms, and the citizen thinks you're doing something, but you don't know the market or the market. Guys, we have to take permanent measures to get out of this financial crisis and never get into a crisis again. So industry based on production should be encouraged, agricultural inputs should be subsidized and the prices of diesel, fertilizer and pharmaceuticals should be reduced to reasonable levels. Turkish seedwork must be developed, genetically modified organisms that pose a great danger to the public's health should immediately be controlled and set up Turkish seed-making research institutes for rehabilitating traditional seeds. It must be funded and provided free seedling for five years until agricultural production reaches normal level. Animalry should be supported, manufacturers should be given free breeding animals. A realistic policy in the economy should be adopted, growth rates should be reasonable and realistic. Realistic measures must be taken to increase exports and tourism revenues. A suitable environment must be created for direct foreign investments to come in more. Foreign trade and business must be reduced openly. Imported products must be produced in the country. Our country's image must be improved abroad. As I've just said, we're asking all groups for help in accepting our bids to the presidency. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0132par0058	Thank you, Mr. Bahshi. Mr. Aygun, you've entered the system...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0133par0060	I have a topic for my district.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0132par0061	I promise, but, Congressmans, you know, we have to finish our friends' conversations here by the end of television time. Mr. Aygun, I promise you one last time because there are groups and individuals talking, so let's continue with them. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0134par0066	Thank you, Mr. President. After the train crash in Tekirdağ Chori-Sarilar position on July 8th, we lost 25 of our citizens, nearly 300 of our citizens were injured, but still no matter what happened to the expert report. Istanbul Technical University was investigating the matter. I hope they complete it without seeing 2019. This attitude is enhancing the suffering of our dead citizens, whose children, mothers, fathers, relatives. Answering from Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mehmet Turhan on this issue, the Ministry and State Railways have nothing to do with it. It goes all the way to 1873. What is it? It was an accident due to the heavy rain that hasn't been seen in a hundred and forty-five years. If you don't take care of it, it'll be an accident in a hundred and forty-six years. The architects' room report, which shows that the new vent will cause new accidents, should also be considered. I would like to request that our research proposal as the Republican People's Party be placed in the front row of the agenda in which our Deputy President and Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop put it under the direction of the TBMM. Also, I hope to take a step this year towards clearing the Ergene River...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0135par0071	Thank you, Mr. Aygun. Dear lawmakers, it is now up to Mr. Feti Yıldız, our Istanbul MP on behalf of the National Movement Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Star. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Backup's strong. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0136par0080	We're gonna have our first conversation, so I guess the guys wanted to encourage it. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, before I speak, I salute you all. Mr. President, good luck with your new assignment. Members of parliament have been presented to Parliament by our Parliament Speaker and İzmir MP Mr. Bazili Yıldırım, followed by the Constitutional Commission on October 4th 2018 and discussed Propos on its main number (2/772) in order to comply with the amendments made in the Constitution. Proposal talks have been passed in admirable harmony, some articles have been removed from the proposal text and have been accepted by the Commission. The Civil Code has a very important impact on the democratic functioning of our country. Therefore, in the doctrine of internal regulations -- as the speaker said earlier -- the constitution is called silent. As it is known, sometimes the procedure comes before the original. Members of parliament, the constitutional amendment, which entered into force on April 27, 2017 and the legislative and executive bodies, have been separated completely. Legislature requires the separation of this harsh separation of conduct, as well as the separation of operations. At this stage, the nationalist movement led by the nationalist movement party to take the proper state order. The executive authority is carried out by the President. Therefore, the government's representation of parliament has been eliminated, but the executive body remains represented in parliament. As is known, tools such as vote of confidence, geneor, verbal question have been removed from the Interior Charter; the written question, general discussion and parliamentary research mechanisms have been redefined. The President's criminal responsibility has been redacted similar to the Parliamentary investigation mechanism. The draft of the law, the government, the council of the ministers, has been completely removed from the text of the Civil Charter, in which context the conceptual changes in accordance with the Constitutional amendments and the terms added, such as the Vice President of the Republic, and the president's aide to the Constitution. In Article 1 of the Constitutional Amendment, the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution shall be written in Article 81 by the Vice Presidents and ministers to take an oath before the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and under the 21st amendment of Article 6271 of the President's Election Act (3) shall be stated the oaths on the day following the appointment of the Vice Presidents and Ministers appointed by the President of the Constitution. In the article, the first merger after the appointment of the vice presidents and ministers has been ruled by oaths. Thus, under the systematic and functioning of the legislature of the Civil Code, it was intended to bring the ruling on the day of the vows of the Vice Presidents of Law 6271 and the ministers of the legislature into action, and to clarify the decision in question, and it was under the Constitutional compliance arrangement. We have declared our positive views on the entire Civil Code as the National Movement Party, and we will do everything we can to make it law. I can already say that the entire Civil Code is adopted by the National Movement Party. He'll vote positive. Congressmans, some amendments to the Constitutional Commission -- as I have just said -- have been unanimously removed from the text. In the days to come, we hope to have a new arrangement and a new rule of the Civil Code. I'd like to make a brief mention of the other changes that have been made here. The request for the commission to participate in the talks has been adopted on Article 7 of Article 8 of the article, the time period for the transfer of documents to the commission has been set, and the request to conduct non-responsive remarks in Article 11 of the article 11 has been stimulated, and the President has been counted among those who will make a request. According to this, the President and other representatives of the executive body will be able to take exception to a strong and action against war, mobilisation, rioting, country or republic, the widespread spread of the country and nation's indivisible acts of violence, constitutional order or widespread violence to eliminate fundamental rights and freedoms, if public order fails and economic crisiss. In Article 12 of the proposal, the state and demand of the administration to participate in the talks has been disclosed, as part of the Constitutional Court's Article 104, the President's executive authority belongs to the President, according to the nature of the job, as well as others who will participate in the administration, considering that the president may attend the meetings. Members of parliament, the amendment to Article 14 has continued to implement the non-capitality of the motions for investigation. The state of the decrees that have been issued and carried out in the past period has also been established. The third clause of Article 90 of the Civil Code has been carried out into the article. The amendment to Article 16 of the proposal has been arranged to make international agreements into proposals, with lawmakers signing the proposal. Again, 500 words have been removed from Article 18 which are considered to be submitted to written question motions. The situation of the investigation of the former prime minister and ministers has been cleared with this arrangement. Again, Article 20 is also clear on the defence situation of former prime ministers and ministers. Other than that, a large number of changes have been made in the drafts in Article 29 of the proposal, 113, 177, 178, 179 and 180. The 15-day deadline for writing questions, the wire transfer process for vacations and recesses, the start of a 15-day period after holidays and recesses, writing to the institution about unanswered questions, and adapting the applications to the new system. Again, an update was made from the Turkish Grand National Assembly library and archive according to the application of the speech from the Turkish Grand National Assembly library. Members of parliament, for the first time in this period, an offer of law was made to the Parliamentary General Assembly before the opposition was written on the commission. As a result of this beautiful and adaptive work, this proposal, which has been jointly agreed on by all parties, harmony and unanimous vote, will, of course, contribute substantially to the functioning of the Assembly. Therefore, on behalf of the National Movement Party, I thank you and salute you all. I wish our Civil Code to be good for our Veteran Assembly. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0137par0101	Thank you, Mr. Star. Mr. Üsver, you gave me a verbal request. I forgot about that. I'm sorry. Finally, I promise you your position according to 60. From there, we'll continue the other conversations quickly. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0138par0107	Like all Central Anatolian farmers who can't make money on wheat and barley, my constituency is also made intensively in Karaman. Turkey has paid $4 billion for importing corn in the last 15 years. The production costs in the countries we import corn are lower than we are. We must remember that countries that don't support their own farmers are supported by imports by other countries. TMO hasn't announced the exchange rate in corn this year either. Moreover, the TMO was given 700,000 tons of duty-free corn imports. So the price of corn purchases has dropped, the manufacturers who buy diesel, fertilizer, medicine at high prices have been devastated by the purchase of corn from the old prices. This means that opportunists seize the labor of the corn producer. If we accept the increase in inflation in the last 15 years, the increase in corn prices has been 80, so the corn producer has lost 20 percent of real income. Our farmers expect the Ministry of Agriculture to provide a solution to their problems, to explain the price of corn exchange and to buy corn. Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0139par0112	Thank you. According to the following 60 things, I will consider the words at further hours. Now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, our Afyonkarahisar MP, Mr. Ali Özkaya... Here you go, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0120	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I wish that the second year of the 27th term, the year of the Second Legislature, first of all, would bring us all a blessing. And I ask God's mercy on our martyrs. I have a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the TBMM Administration. Dear lawmakers, my dear friends, as it is known, domestic regulations are the most basic text that determines how parliaments are organized and how it works. From this point of view, the internal regulations that determine and frame the method of parliamentary politics are almost the heart of the assembly. That's why parliamentary law uses the term "silent constitutions" in general for domestic regulations. Our country has a very old and important democratic experience. Our experience of democracy and parliament and our history go back from many European countries. Our experience in democracy, which began with the 1864 Province of Province and the province of 1876, took place in the parliamentary monarchy with the Constitution of 1876. In 1876, the Parliament-i-Mebusan and the Parliament-i-Ayani Constitution appear as the first bylaws of our parliamentary tradition. Civil charters are the law of established traditions, in other words, a living law, which has to be adapted to the conditions of the day. As a result, many changes have been made in our Civil Code from then to now, although we still have rules that have survived from the Divine Order, which was adopted in 1877. Comprehensive domestic regulations are one of the most difficult activities in all the world's parliaments. There has just been a saying that there are countries that are qualified to change their regulations. There are no such qualified majority in any of the world's parliaments. It's a constitutional system only because it's an addition to the constitution in the Swedish Parliament.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0141par0125	Finland and Romania have also been briefed.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0126	No, it's not in any of them, it's just a matter of the European Parliament's own institutional code.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0142par0127	It was when you were reading, people are moving forward.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0128	Other than that, for the first time in our history of democracy, in 1877, in 1927 and 1973, we've also made a two-time civil decree as insults and violations. We've done the constitution five times, but we've done the civil code three times. Hence, the challenge of changing the Civil Charter is seen here. As we all know, we went to a very radical constitutional change with Law 6771. We've just been told, we've returned from the constitution and democracy of the boards. Yes, the boards, whose name is the higher councils, were brought in under the Constitution of 1961, were given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the rightful owner of sovereignty, and the presidency of the Constitution, which is now under the 6th amendment of the Constitution. So in the new system, we had to make changes from parliamentary democracy to the presidential government system, and we had to complete them. The President of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has also proposed a amendment to the Civil Code, and the Commission has adopted amendment motions by a unanimous vote of 30/1 of the Articles, and 1 clause has been reached with the same opinion and a consensus. Thus, today's Civil Code amendment is essentially correcting the Constitutional Amendment system. Sir, if we sat down, we should have done a much larger Civil Charter. It would have been better; for better or better, there is beauty, but we must not forget one thing: Today's Civil Charter is contrary to the Constitution. In that case, the Parliament will begin its new legislature by doing the right work today, changing the Civil Code as the first thing because of the continuing agenda of the breach of the Constitution, and after that, hopefully, we will change it in accordance with the Constitution. In three main topics, we can see the amendment to the Civil Code. The first title is the creation of the current technical regulations, the compliance with the system, the concepts of the government, the government, the prime minister, the cabinet of ministers, the president, the vice president, and the minister. Again, it has been agreed that the Constitution shall regulate the issue of the state-owned veto authority in which the laws have been rejected in the first place, in the form of a total rejection of the law. Since the Constitution has lifted the concept of a decree on the rule of law, the presidential decrees have arrived and the presidential decrees have taken place in the House of Parliament. According to the Constitution, there are decrees that should actually be passed within 30 days, decrees that must be passed by parliament, decrees that have not been passed in thirty years, and decrees that are still in effect, according to the Constitution. In the new system, the presidential decrees will be nullified only if they are not passed within three months.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0143par0133	The state of emergency decrees...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0134	So there are decrees in the law that don't pass in thirty years, and when it doesn't pass in three months, there are decrees in the law that will be repealed on its own.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0143par0135	The state of emergency, the state of emergency... you didn't work well.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0144par0136	The state of emergency...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0137	The state of emergency... it's all in particular.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0144par0138	The presidential decree doesn't pass through the House, brother, it's a state of emergency.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0139	The presidential decree is issued during the state of emergency and should pass within three months, others are decrees, different concepts.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0145par0140	You didn't work again. You didn't work again.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0140par0141	In other cases, the President's criminal responsibility, which was originally lifted as treason in 1991 and was not in the penal code, is also organised in the new system, and the Interior Charter is in accordance with it. The martial law is being lifted, and, again, the death penalty is being removed from the Civil Code. Like the review commission -- whose name has been changed and removed -- its name is still in the Civil Charter, and although it has been removed from the administrative agency, the guard battalion in the Civil Charter has been removed. When the guard battalion was here on the 15th of July, we all knew how much trouble we were going to face. And today we all saw how the decision made in the past was the right one. Dear lawmakers, the third issue is that our Parliament -- which has just been said -- is the living law -- and that the issues that form strong rules enter the Interior Charter, and that the papers that come electronically reach the lawmakers, we can also say that we should set it up by giving an example. I just mentioned, of course, that some of our fellow MPs were coming in the parliamentary system, the president, the prime minister, the ministers were talking, so let's go back to the parliamentary system. Our beloved nation accepted the constitutional amendment, and that system was over. Parliament is the parliament of the nation; the president, the vice president, the ministers, the executive nation. As our Constitutional Court says: "The separation of men is a civilized business department. The reverse is not contrary to the system that we bring to the commissions, which is a very accurate and beautiful example of civil cooperation, in which we are in a hurry to put it in our Civil Code -- the President, vice president and ministers -- to come and give information on extraordinary and urgent matters. Dear friends, I'd like to say one more thing here, which has just been said at the very beginning: "Sir, the palaces of this Parliament are connected to another place." This year, our coven published two volumes of Yilmaz Öztuna, a beautiful Ottoman history. It's fantastic. There Yilmaz Oztuna clearly says: "All these palaces belong to the nation. There is no king's palace in the Ottoman Empire. When the king's term is over, he will not inherit; he is the property of the state, the property of the nation. The presidency belongs to this nation, and the President is the president of this nation, and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey belongs to this nation. Therefore, it is also true that the values of the nation continue to belong to the nation. It is an important beginning for our Parliament's Civil Code to recognize a large alliance in our Constitutional Commission as limited to today's Constitutional Amendment. We thank our friends, our leaders, our representatives of our political parties, our members of the Commission, our Commissioner, our Speaker of Parliament, our Deputy Speaker, and our Speaker of Parliament, who gave us the motion. I hope, hopefully, that next semester, we will all, together, again, four times from zero, the House of this nation will make an internal charter, and I wish you all a good day and a good evening.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0146par0147	Thank you, Mr. Ozkaya.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0147par0148	Mr. President, I have a brief request as acting group president.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0146par0149	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0147par0152	Mr. President, thank you very much. Of course, there are many aspects of Mr. Hatib's speech that I disagree with, but one missing piece of information must be filed and corrected. After the declaration of the Republic, it is not in vain that palaces are directly linked to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The palaces were used by the only men who ruled the country in the palaces. The handing of these palaces to Parliament was a confidence and symbolic of the democratic parliamentary system, which began in those days with the unity of forces, but at the end of the journey with the democratic experience of separation of forces, and how the declaration of the republic now evolved from a monarchy to the sovereignty of a single man's regime, and how the Ottoman heritage had entrusted all palaces to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The work is extremely wrong, it's done with a rematchist emotion, and it's also symbolically important that the person whose criticisms are being brought together by the only hand of authority should take the palaces of Parliament into a building that is saving itself and do so by its own signature, one important thing is to go back, symbolically, and a very important way back to the democracy of the Republic of Turkey, regardless of its material size. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0148par0156	Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0149par0159	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, of course, I heard the statement just now, and I felt the need for an explanation for this statement. As a result, all public institutions and institutions, including the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, including the building we are in, all palaces, the Presidential Assembly in Fivetepe, all belong to the sovereign nation, and how they were used as the center of the presidency at Chankaya times, if these places I consider to be the place of service to the nation today. It's never an arrangement by acting with a rematch of understanding, it's a Buhtan, it's never acceptable; it's just an administrative arrangement. The name of the regime that took place during the transition from the monarchy to the republic yesterday is not a state that represents the parliamentary government system, you know, the definitions of that day are a different definition. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish it.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0150par0164	Please continue.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0149par0165	Therefore, through such opposition, let's say a finalist with a duet logic so that we can create their predecessors as we please. There is a need to abandon logic. And I'm getting to the point where I'm at the first opening, where there's no conflict with the head of the republic as it is now, there's a process of progress, a process of relocation, of democracy, of national will, of institutionalization, and building a system on solid foundations for further progress. These processes have always been followed by the will of the nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And in the future, it'll be what people say it is. Respecting the will of the nation is what we all owe. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0151par0170	Okay, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I shared my opinion on this matter this morning, and I don't want to be involved in an argument now. We will now begin our speeches on behalf of the individuals. On behalf of the individuals, the first speech is from our Ankara MP, Mr. Mustafa Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0152par0179	Mr. President, Mr. Court, dear MPs, first of all, on behalf of myself and the community of the Great Union Party, I salute you with love and respect. Of course, the last of our martyrs in Haqkari, and a few days ago, our martyrs in Batman, may their souls rest in peace, and may their place be in heaven. I call upon our wounded veterans to seek immediate healing from my Lord and wish our heroic security forces success and victory in the fight against all elements of terror both inside and outside. I curse the rogue PKK terrorist organization and all its extensions, including politicians. Dear MPs, first of all, I would like to express our satisfaction that the Council of Parliament has been brought to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as a result of the agreement of the groups in the Commission. We may have our differences, we may have our differences, but I would like to express to you how important it is to compromise as it is here in the fundamental issues, and that this is a very important step in the time when we need unity and unity, and I thank all the groups who are working here. Of course, I made a pledge here on behalf of myself, but this was more the time of the AK PARTY Group's rights to us than my efforts. I thank them. I thank the Republican People's Party for the same kindness. Hopefully, I'll use theirs later. Like this, I'm going to take turns with groups, or else we're going to have a little bit of a hard time getting word in the House. That's exactly what I wanted to talk to you about. Of course, our parliamentary council is changing, while our political parties, whose group is in parliament, are first considered. But our political parties, represented in parliament but without a group, don't take much into account. So I'd like to talk about a few things here first. First, item 4 of the amendment proposal. In Article 31 of the Civil Charter, you know that no one, except the members of the Commission, can or can vote. We -- our demand here -- that the political parties represented in parliament, but not the group, can't be members of the commission, but we'd like to say that we'd like to be able to give them the opportunity to at least make a motion because they represent a very important group, the base. The second is Article 59 of the 8th and Parliamentary Council. Again, I would like to say that we find it important for our pluralist democracy to move forward with the promise of five minutes each to each political party, which has not a group, but is represented in parliament. In the same way, we believe it would be appropriate for each of the political parties represented here in parliament but without a group to be given five minutes separately, while law proposals are being discussed in parliament. On the other hand, in Article 102 of our Parliamentary Council, the opening of general discussion can be expressed by government, political party groups and at least 20 MPs. We wish to open the way for this to be delivered by only one MP. For example, I wish that the rights violations in West Thrace, which took place in East Turkistan, should be brought to the attention by the Turkish Major Assembly group, but because we are the only MPs, I also suffer from not being able to do so. On the other hand, we all know that the system change in Turkey -- dear friends, I don't think it helps to go back to the past system, to lock arguments in there because the past system is a malfunctioning parliamentary system, but it's a semi-democratic parliamentary system. We've all lived together that different governments were formed, as in February 28th, when crises, chaos, people's preferences were ignored and people's preferences were hit. So, we say let's put these arguments behind us and move on. Look, democracy is the principle of dissolution of forces, legislation, conduct and judicial separation... I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0153par0191	Mr. Destici, one moment, please. Finish up, I'll turn on your mic.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0152par0193	Thank you, Mr. President. For years, we, the Party of the Great Union, have always advocated the separation of law and order, and for that, we have defended the choice of the President of the people, and are now locked up as a board to rule the country in a stable manner, with full separation of life and execution from the nation, by the vote of confidence he has received from the nation, by the assurance of election, and by the rule of law on its name. So I think this is an important opportunity for Turkey, and I think that the new system has further raised and strengthened the reputation of both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Now, if the ministers were sitting here, I think a significant part of the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's time would be spent here with the question-answer department with the ministers, but if we give ourselves to our original mission here... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I think we can have good results for Turkey and for our nation. Of course, we respect everyone's opinion, their opinion, and therefore the people's will, and I stress that everyone has to be ram. I salute you with love, with respect, with respect, with love; I wish you success in your work.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0154par0199	Thank you, Mr. Destici. On behalf of the individuals, the last word is from our Ankara MP, Mr Murat Emir. Here you go, Mr. Emir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0155par0203	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Before I express my views on the Civil Charter, I'd like to address a few issues regarding the latest polemics. When Mr. Akbasoglu listened to him, I felt like we should be relieved that Mr. President is not taking over the title of the illegal palace. So, of course, Mr. President is not in the position to do the deed on the illegal palace, but what bothers us is that we don't know how much it costs, we don't know how much money it costs, we don't know how much money is spent there, we're uncomfortable that even the Court can't control it in detail; we're uncomfortable that it's being replaced there while the public is suffering in poverty and poverty. So without that, our problems with that palace will not end, and in that sense, we will continue to bring it here every time. When I heard about Mr. Ozkaya, I was surprised, he understood the difficulty of the situation. He went back to the past to receive support, to go back to history, and he said that the Padişahs were not in the palaces. Mr. Ozkaya, the Ottomans had no property, everything was the king, the property was the king; the concept of property is a matter of the last hundred and fifty years. So you can't get backup there. It's an illegal palace, it's illegal, and this Parliament must know exactly what we, the Turkish nation and our people are being spent there; we'll follow it once. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Now, why are we here, dear friends? Let's look at the very short history of the issue: there is an illegitimate constitutional amendment, a constitutional amendment that singles out all the forces, and a system that has been carried out under extraordinary conditions of constitutional change and extraordinary antidemocratic practices, and a constitutional amendment that even violates the law of the YSK itself, which is controversial, illegitimate, and even violates the law of the YSK. We have arrived, and now the Constitution must be made up of the Civil Code. Of course, we don't want a commission here, let's have 600 MPs, of course, let's say we want to make proper technical arrangements for it, but let's not make any sense that we'll never, ever, ever agree to this illegitimate constitutional amendment, agree to it, and we won't fight against you to bring the democratic parliamentary regime to the end in the coming period. Of course, Turkey's future is in the democratic parliamentary regime. Look, you can't make it work, you can't make it work. You brought in a freaky presidential system, but you're having a hard time telling it. Remember what you said to explain, you said the government system of the presidency. Look, none of it's true. After the president's oath, he said to the first people who asked: "You can call me President. " Government? There's no government. That's a list, friends. It's not a government, it's not a Council of Ministers, it's a list of technicians. And then you look at it, the system's smashed, the system's not working, it's obvious the system won't work. You say, "How do we get the ministers to talk on the first day?" Because you realize that the ministers must eventually participate in law enforcement. A technician will attend, a scientist will attend... But thanks to you, it's almost impossible to get an opinion from scientists, civil society, professional rooms, the Bar Association. The commission's work has been highly devalued in your time, but you see the need for the minister to come in there and provide technical support. So you can't make it work. Now, speaking of commissions, I'd like to take a look at the content of the first offer. I'm running out of time, but actually the first offer we got was extremely antidemocratic. Under the image of a technical arrangement, he kept a lot of antidemocratic practices, a lot of stuff that made the House obsolete, devalued, in a change of the Civil Charter, where it seemed like everyone had to contribute. One of them, for example, was an effort to limit debate time on the commission. That's why you've made an effort to make Parliament much more dysfunctional after the April 16th referendum. Now, there's a compromise here, and there's an understanding union here, and we thank everyone who's worked at this point of understanding, but after that, it's going to hide behind it, and as Mr. Akbasoglu puts it, it's going to prevent the House from working, it's going to turn the opposition's voice into a law-making machine again, and you're going to think about any Civil Charter change that's going to further undermine the reputation of the House. And if you are upon a path which you speak of, We will surely stand in it. Our people are in serious trouble...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0156par0212	Mr. Emir, complete your speech.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0155par0213	Thank you, Mr. President. At a time when a heavy economic crisis took place, and Turkey was about to be poured out with this one-man regime everywhere, of course, we need to negotiate, we need to negotiate, we need to compromise, but our foundation should be democracy, we need to expand freedoms, we need the state of law, and in this sense, we hope to be able to do a more democratic, more involved, pluralist charter together, all together, and I thank you. Mr. President, I also want to thank you, and I believe you will succeed in your new mission, and I give you my regards.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0157par0217	Thank you, thank you. Mr. Akbasoglu, you have a request for a statement from your position.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0158par0219	I'd like to make a statement based on 60.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0157par0220	Here you are, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0158par0223	Actually, there's bullying, but I've made a commitment not to extend the work, to book it. Now, they asked the camel, "Why is your neck crooked?" And the camel said, "Where am I right?" What part should I fix now? The palace is not a palace, but a fugitive is not a fugitive. He calls it a choice, and the nation is basing it on its will. In the end, in the eyes of the judge, vilifying the will of the nation is, in fact, living in a world that is completely devoid of reality at this point. Therefore, in his identity as a true lawyer, I only express that I did not make up for the precious Murat Emir Bey. The cat called the liver that he couldn't reach. I'm afraid some friends can't accept it when they don't get the result. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Your friend Muharrem Eyüt said, "Let everyone accept it, the man has won." That's all he said.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0159par0228	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0158par0229	I explained, I didn't pick on you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0159par0230	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0160par0231	Murat Bey, let's make a promise from you. Here, finish up, but let's finish the discussion. For by nine o'clock, at least let our people watch the meetings of groups concerning the Civil Charter at the time of television.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0161par0233	Yes, we will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0160par0234	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0162par0236	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, of course, he's judged me here as living a life without reality, Mr. Akbasoglu, but we live in Turkey. I don't know where they live, but we live in Turkey, where unemployment, poverty, extreme conditions continue, freedoms are limited, everything is handed over to one man, and even the economic crisis can't be produced because of that one man's regime. As for Mr. Encel, he's -- you know, you've confused again -- he's for the last presidential election, but the choice that we find illegitimate is the April 16, 2017 referendum. Even the Prime Minister of the time said it was wrong and antidemocratic to do so under extraordinary circumstances. So we're going to find, of course, an illegitimate, law-breaking and controversial and antidemocratic constitution. Lastly, I'll finish with a quote from Montesquieu: "If there is no separation of forces, there is no constitution." There is a law now...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0163par0241	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0164par0242	Just let it be contained.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0163par0243	Mr. Akbasoglu, yes.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0164par0244	We can also remind you of the earlier words of Muharrem Encel: You go out, you go out, you go out, you go out, you're eaten, you're beaten all the time.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0163par0245	Well, thank you, Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0164par0246	As a result, we've highlighted a fact. The time frame, chronology doesn't change, the old and the middle and the new are the same.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0165par0247	Muharrem Tüyük, one more thing: he is deceived, deceived, deceived, again deceived. Let us say this from Muharrem Eyük.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0164par0248	Hopefully, the outcome won't change on the next 31st of March. People, let's respect your will. Let's all come together.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0166par0249	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0167par0250	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0166par0251	Mr. Special, you have a motion to make.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0168par0252	There's no bullying, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0167par0253	Mr. President, since he said, let's continue from the same place to the report. If we try to discuss issues within a party, a Prime Minister, elected by 49 per cent of the vote, will be ordered to appoint only his own borough administrations.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0169par0255	What the hell!
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0167par0256	... They are summoned to the palace at the time for their objection to the signing, reminding them of the process in which they have been dismissed by the independent, neutral, sworn, and constitutionally neutral President and left out of politics; then they remind them of what kind of democracy is in their own party, what kind of coup is it, when they turn around and try to hold an advantage over a party word or two demagojies.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0170par0258	Where do you get this information?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0171par0259	You know, fiction is something else, the truth is something else.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0167par0260	Kurgu Tayyip Erdogan, the facts are Davutoglu; ask him what he's saying.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0172par0261	Yes, thank you. Dear lawmakers, negotiations on Article 1 have been completed. Now, we move on to a ten-minute question-and-answer on Article 1 of the Civil Code Proposal. Since there are no MPs entering the system, we're moving on to the question-answer process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit the 1st Amendment to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. Mr. Lightning, before you read the 2nd article, you had a request to make a statement, but let's consider it immediately and move on to item 2. Yes, what's your request?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0173par0271	Mr. President, I have a question about Çukurova Airport.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0172par0272	Please come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0173par0275	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, in 2011, thousands of acres of land were seized concerning Çukurova Airport, and the citizens who object to the price received their claims according to the court's ruling. Seven years later, citizens are asked to receive a fee of 3,000 TL per acre on the grounds that property costs are overpaid. Farmers can't afford to pay that money right now. The state has no right to ask for the money it gives after seven years. The farmer's already paying the debt in debt. Medicine, fertilizer, seed prices increased by over 100 per cent, diesel increased by over 100 per cent. The season of citrus and olives has begun, prices are now at half the price of last year. The government's urgent package of agricultural support, the farmers' transfer their debts, the loan rates reaching 25-30 per cent, 6 per cent, like the Farm Bank, or else... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...after the construction industry, there will be great chaos in agriculture, and I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0174par0282	Dear lawmakers, I now read Article 2: MADDE 2 - Article 9 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly Committee's Article 9 has been added to the following joke. ▪ The number of members of the Presidential Court is determined by exclusion of the President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I will now take turns making a pledge on the matter to groups and then to individuals. The first word is Mr. Ahmet Kamil Erozan. Here you go, Mr. Erozan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0175par0289	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are not immune to criticism in any way, even though the following Charter has come to the General Assembly due to a consensus. We were actually discussing this with a holistic approach and all of its materials, but unfortunately that didn't happen. One of the main reasons is that the Charter was formed on the basis of the Constitution. Therefore, because the Constitution we have is disabled, the Civil Code, as the Constitution, has come to our attention in a way that is disabled. As you know, we're taking a stand for the reintegration of the democratic parliamentary system in modern norms. Other opposition parties are participating in this. But unfortunately, we're not in a position to do that under today's circumstances, and our vote isn't enough, but we're hoping that those days will come. When I looked at the charter, I found many spelling errors. When I say typo, I'd like to give you an example. What's a minister? If you look at my writing here, the minister could have been looking out the window if he had a small letter written here. But as far as we're concerned, the minister is also supposed to be someone who sees, but you're already down there writing the letter, and I think you're describing people who have no ability to perform, and so I think that the ministers here are written the way they deserve. My second observation is that the agreements be ratified again regarding another ordinance of the Charter. The agreements are written in the letter "also written in the letter "also written in the letter "also written in the letter" by the letter "also" by the letter "a" by the letter "a" by the letter "a" by the letter "a" by the I questioned this in the Commission, and I said, what about the agreements, the non-relationships, the contracts, the protocols? They say, "No, they are all alike." And I'm afraid I don't have to accept that understanding. So for example, Lausanne is a contract, Montrö is a contract. All of this being put in the same boat is out of all logic. The written questions... I gave 10 written questions to this side from July 7th, since the House opened. I will only remember these: on July 17th, the issue of the ownership of islands and islands in the Aegean Sea, the DBP in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Montrö Straits Convention and Canal İstanbul on July 26th, the results of foreign national terrorists captured in Syria and Iraq, September 10th, the September 14th of September 14th, and who will allow prosecutions against the chief of the General Staff and military commanders, and who will be the widow of the West Thracya, and on September 3rd of the Lauzan Peace Treaty, the issue of Police Special Operations and Genocide Special Ops on September 14th, and on September 25th, which will be the subject of the problems of the war against the state's property, and on September 1s of Turkey, and on October 1st. And since I'm a rookie MP, I wondered how these things got processed inside this building, and I got the first one, the first one, and I gave it to them on July 17th. On July 17th, the written question I gave him traveled in this building for twenty-eight days, and the written motion as an MP stayed inside this building for 28 days, and only on August 14th, he went to the Foreign Ministry. I say he's gone from here to Balgat. He's gone in three days. He came out of here in the 14th. He was in the Ministry. Why do I remember that? I myself have given up hope. In what sense am I despairing? On July 17th, I told the State Department what islands were occupied. It's been two months and three weeks, and the State Department still hasn't found out which islands are occupied. I don't know how long this is gonna take. However, Mr. Sargeglu admitted last year that some of these islands were occupied by his own mouth, not in my time, but in his own words. It doesn't matter to me, someone tell me, since when are they occupied? Another question is, again, about the written question I brought up today, the subject of gifts given to the President. I wanted to ask the president what happened, where did these gifts go, were they recorded? They said, "Yo, you can't ask the President a question." So the President is such a great office. But we've just been told he's responsible for everything. Why can't I ask the person responsible for everything? Oh, maybe under custody? I've thought about that. Because they tell me you're going to ask the vice president the question you're going to ask the president. The Vice President will ask the President about your problem. Is there anything strange here? I'd like to put all this aside and put an end to my words with the following. AS A GOOD PARTY, we will continue to struggle with all the possibilities we can to ensure that the autocratic government, which dominates our country on the basis of a democracy and an outdated constitution that has fallen out of international norms, does not slip into a totalitarian system. I would like to bring this to the attention and knowledge of both the Supreme Assembly and our citizens who have been monitoring us through television channels and the number of free press media organs. Our hope is that in the first general elections, with the support of our citizens, we will get rid of this antidemocratic order that we've fallen into, and we'll go to the structures that will allow our people to transition to a modern democratic parliamentary system that they deserve. When that day comes, it will be a priority for us to rethink the Civil Code. A friend of ours from the AK PARTY just referred to the parliamentary system and said that the system was finished. In democracies, nothing is eternal and eternal. The presidential government system is not eternal and eternal. I'm looking this way today, and I hope that when that day comes, I'm going to look this way and I'm going to talk to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0176par0297	Thank you, Mr. Erozan. Dear MPs, there's a hum in the General Assembly. I'm asking our friends to listen carefully. We're having important talks. I felt the need to give our fellow speakers a warning, so as not to cause any discomfort in their speech. Please be quiet. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Mr. Mustafa Kalaycı is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Kalay.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0177par0302	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Movement Party Group on the Proposal for Change in Turkey's Grand National Assembly. On this occasion, I salute your high council. And I wish the president the best of luck with his new assignment. The amendments made by Law 6771 in the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey, which took effect on April 27, 2017, also require comprehensive changes to the Turkish National Assembly. A number of changes have been made in various substances over 45 years since the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which took effect on 1 September 1973. These changes have corrupted the system of the Civil Code. Some of the existing provisions were never implemented, while some of the applications that had no basis in the Civil Code were created with very strong rules. Since then, the failure of legislation to reach the desired quality, the slowness of the law-making process, the ineffective functioning of commissions, the ineffectiveness of the control process, the lack of planning and programming of parliamentary work and the fact that lawmakers have not been able to participate actively enough in legislation and control processes, has always been expressed by political party groups and lawmakers. Therefore, draft texts were uncovered in 2009 and 2013 by the two negotiating commissions for the renovation of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution, but were not implemented in significant terms by political party groups. The meeting, held on September 27, 2018, led by our Parliament Speaker on September 27, 2018, was agreed by political party groups in the meeting of parliamentary chiefs and political party chiefs and the Turkish Parliament's Institution of the Grand National Assembly on the basis of the proposed proposal to include mandatory technical changes, primarily required by the Constitution. On October 4, 2018, the proposed amendment to the Civil Charter proposed by our Parliament Speaker, İzmir MP Buli Yıldırım was discussed by the Constitutional Commission and adopted by some changes. The proposed amendment to the Civil Code was primarily intended to adapt to changes made in the Constitution. However, changes have also been made about decoding materials that do not affect the core of the Civil Charter, which are still not functioning, and about setting up for some practices that have become strong. We support the amendment to the Civil Code as the National Movement Party Group. Thus, the Constitution is adapted. However, it is clear that the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Institution must be addressed with a new understanding, and that parliamentary work requires both institutional and functional innovation. It is possible to take into account the work that has been set up by the agreement commissions established earlier in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and in the case of the 2009 text, which is even a product of reconciliation, a new Civil Charter could be removed in a short time. The Nationalist Movement Party is ready to contribute and support the preparation of a new Interior Charter, which will allow for the discovery of a more democratic, fast, efficient, transparent, participating, and quality legislative process. An increase in the quality of legislation, the focus of legislation and control is on commissions, the creation of infrastructure that will provide neutral and technical reports by analyzing law proposals, the establishment of a separate non-responsibility commission that will be discussed under the activation of the audit and audit reports, and some of the issues that we consider important in the new Internal Charter study as the Millitarian Movement Party. Dear lawmakers, as it is known, have made changes to the Constitutional government system as of its essence. The presidential government system is a model of governance in accordance with the state tradition of the Turkish nation's historical mission. The basic attributes of the republic, which is the first four articles of the Constitution, are also indispensable to the new system, such as our national and unitary state structure, Turkish national identity, democratic regime and basic human rights. The presidency, the government system, has made clear the distinction of forces. Legislature, executive and judicial bodies have been restored to a structure in which stronger, more independent, balance and control mechanisms work more effectively. The presidential and parliamentary general elections are held on the same day every five years. The administration has been freed from bilateralism and has been given direct authority by the nation. Thus, the government debates, government crises, the lack of government, the issue of non-government, the coalition period has ended, the path to political, economic and democratic stability has been established, a structure of governance focused on quick-working, quick-working, solving problems, and the development of Turkey. The administration no longer comes out of the House and takes the vote of confidence from the nation itself. Thus, the vote of confidence and the geneorization mechanism have been removed. It is no longer possible for the government to submit a bill to parliament, and it will be possible to represent the government or the members of the government in parliament. In this framework, the draft legislation, the government, the Council of Ministers, the geneor and the vote of confidence are lifted in the proposal for a amendment to the Civil Code. The parliament organises the representation of running at the level of President, Vice President, Minister, Deputy ministers and senior public executives, if necessary. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been restored to its original function and qualifications and has been strengthened in terms of representation and authority. In the making of the law, Parliament's will has been highlighted. The administration will only be able to offer budgets and firm bill proposals. Other than that, parliament will pass legislation on law proposals made by lawmakers. The budget and the final account are also authorized by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by changing or changing the law proposals. The law of the legislature, meaning the removal of the legislature's power of law, has been lifted from the law. Again, martial law, which resembles intermediary regime regulations, has been lifted, and extraordinary management procedures have been met under a single title. The proposed amendment of the Civil Code has been made in line with this. The state-of-the-art decision declared by the President and the decision to extend the deadline to the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is to submit the presidential decrees to Parliament's approval on the day they are published in the Official Gazette and to be repealed automatically if they do not reach a verdict within three months. The control functions of parliament through question, general discussion, parliamentary research and parliamentary investigation have been further strengthened, the written question motions are expected to be answered within 15 days, and the President has been made accountable to parliament. As it is known in the previous system, despite the broad powers of the President, there is no criminal responsibility other than treason, which is envisioned by the Council to send to the Supreme Court with three-quarters of its majority. A balance of the President's powers and responsibilities has been established with the new system, and the president has been burdened with criminal responsibility. All actions and procedures of the President have become subject to legislation. The criminalization mechanism for this purpose has been replaced as a powerful control tool for the new system. Vice presidents and ministers have also been subjected to the same procedure in all their crimes related to their duties. In addition, all actions and procedures of the President who had not previously been subject to judicial supervision have been subject to judicial supervision. The Supreme Court's trial is required to be completed within six months at the latest. The proposal for amendments also includes arrangements for such matters in order to comply with the Constitution. Again, I pay my respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0178par0316	Thank you, Mr. Kalay. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, our Batman MP, Mr. Necdet Silkface. Here you are, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0179par0320	Mr. President, first of all, congratulations on your mission. Dear members, as you know, we're here to review the Civil Code, and when all members stand up and speak, they agree that this Civil Code has passed through the agreement of all parties, and it's positive. Actually, there's been a technical arrangement here. First of all, when we speak in Parliament, it is the honor of Parliament that must be considered in the first place, because just as we all have the Constitution, the Constitution of the whole country is essential, the Civil Code in Parliament is essential to the work of Parliament, and so is it in the whole world. When we consider the constitution, there should be a constitution, a constitution that we've come up with, in general, social consensus, participation in civil society, compromise. When we look at the history of the Republic of Turkey, it's always been a compromise for all of the constitutions, it's always wanted to participate in civil society, it's always wanted to participate in the opposition, but it's never been in practice. Why didn't it happen? The constitutions have always been discussed, the constitutions have always been found guilty, the constitutions have always been discussed in extraordinary circumstances. Can you imagine, the 1982 Constitution passed 90 per cent, and we're still discussing it, and we're going to change the Constitution when every political party is in opposition or the first promise to come to power? When we come to power, we will remove the status quo. This Constitution is not fit for Turkey, this Constitution is not pluralist... and for some reason those who come to power are the status quo itself when they take over the status quo. All political parties, whether in coalition times or as one party, will remove the National Security Council when they become government, we will change the SEC. Even though they say so many things, they all go on the same way. We're finding palliative solutions. When you read it in Turkish -- unless you find a radical solution -- what we call a political solution is to avoid something. If you get past something, it'll eventually get in our way and explode. So as long as we don't change the Constitution, we have a lot of problems. Look, why is the Constitution important? If the Constitution doesn't care about pluralism, if it doesn't care about democracy, we're going to fail. I've just read a report, and research from the OECD and the European Union has been conducted in 41 countries between 2014 and 2018, and in particular various measurements have been taken on the participation of the judiciary, media and civil society. Turkey has fallen to its most recent ranks in terms of democracy, and has declined more and more than 2014. The most considered issue is the laws of the law, the violation of the independence of the judiciary, and the becoming of a single voice of the media. When we talk about a lot of things about the Constitution, it's like when we look at the constitutional proposals, the party programs that the past political parties have created, when we talk about them today, it's like they didn't say it and we brought it up. Look, let me read you a sentence. Our party sees law as a means of enforcing justice, not as a means of scaring justice. Our party does not see law as an instrument of intimidation, it is called punishment. It is called punishment. It is said that our society will become a society of peace where crime is reduced and there is no fear. That's what the Justice and Development Party said in 2002. Look, we call it peace, we don't call it fear, but today people are on trial for sharing on social media. It's not pluralism, it's very vocalism; we've become this way, and today, for example, Osman Kavala's indictment has not been prepared for over a year. Many media writers, such as the younger brothers and Ilıcak, are tried for execution, sentenced to life in prison, and all applications are brutally, brutally, under the law. Once again, when we look at the peacemakers, when we look at the laws of the law, there are problems. Look, we said independence of justice. Last time, lawyers were tried, released, taken back 12 hours later. You don't see that kind of law. What was expressed in 2002 is that what has been opposed to status quo is being put into practice today. The other thing is, when we look at it, we're dealing with a governmentless Parliament. Irresponsible, one-man act; other than that, we're all responsible, not everyone's responsible, no balance control, no law enforcement. It's just us, the parliamentarians, being notarized as a notary mission, turned into a consenting authority. When we talked about the Civil Charter, even at this time at the opening of the House, there were different places for friends and commissioners. Now that we're counting, 10 people... 17 people are the seat of the commission. Some things aren't done like that, not like that. If we pretend to do so, it will undermine our reputation. I mean, even when we look here, we don't have a place to sit. Even that wasn't handled. It's seen as a formality, like this one. We've come to something else, something that we've always wanted, one voice, one type, one media, we've brought one singularity to everything, and we want to turn the House into one voice. The House is where the noise will come from. Why did people vote for us? To make a sound, to reflect the voice of society here. Look, the mayor of Batman County was arrested today, the mayor of the People's Democratic Party has been arrested. Nizamettin Tugç -- if the former parliamentarians are here, perhaps they'll know -- is a parliamentary speaker selected from the SHP list in 1991. In 1993, Batman, a friend of ours, who was brutally murdered -- an unknown or perpetrator -- was injured while he was with Mehmet Sincar. He had to leave the country when the DEP was shut down. Twenty-one years later, a relief in Turkey's environment in 2015, a relief, a relief, and this one takes the plane to Turkey willingly to return to politics. In Ankara, he gets off the plane, he's detained, he's released, he's released, and at the moment Batman is trying to have democratic, peaceful politics again. At this age, 21 years later, if you take people who want to go back to their country and do politics, if you take people who have been parliamentary in the past, trust in Parliament will be reduced, and politics will be reduced. What we should do is, normally, with a lot of changes, we should actually say a lot of voices. Today, if we speak of fear, we'll be alone in many things, we'll be shut down, we'll lose Parliament from a respectable state, and we'll leave the parliamentary in the middle of the street. While we issue a press release on this mayor, law enforcement doesn't want any statements made at all. All efforts are being made to increase tension in a tense environment after eight soldiers who have lost their lives in Batman, a political party that has won the most votes in a province like Batman.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0180par0332	You will say martyr, martyr, martyr.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0179par0333	Let's call it "the martyr" and condemn what happened. We never advocated bloodshed in this country. We opposed bloodshed. We are defenders of peace. We don't negotiate over blood. Whoever is doing it is insulting to the people of Parliament and Turkey. Our future is in a completely non-compromising, peaceful, and non-violent environment. We will always continue to make an effort to do so. You came with a 3Y. What is it? Corruption, bans and poverty. Today you end the living, you end the running, you end the judgment. Not only do we sing them, but they grow, and you trample the 3Y. This Parliament must work for our future, for all of us. We can't do that if we don't respect ourselves. When I take over all of your party programs from 2002, we all sign what you said in the first semesters, all political parties sign. At the moment we're here today, when we read them, it's really a sign of what we've become. I had prepared a long text, and I read it all, but time is not enough, and I accept it enough to sign it all, in pluralism, in peace, in the environment without fear, in the environment without bans. But we've become a single-species, disapproving, damaging environment. Finally: Let's not pretend. We can't go back and fix our mistakes, we can't go back and start over, but we can learn from it. But from now on, if you call it a new system, a new system, a new environment, let's make a new constitution. Let's make a pluralist, democratic, respectable, public-speaking constitution. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, the last...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0181par0339	Mr. Silkface, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0179par0340	Let us also provide the participation of civil society organisations, especially in the Civil Charter. Look, the Turkish Medical Association came here not yesterday, but the day before, last week when Congress was open. He couldn't talk to most of the group presidents for a physician who lost his life. In fact, institutions such as the Union of Turkish Medicines, trade organisations, trade unions, civil society should be able to reach us everywhere, not just the group heads, but all the commissions. So let's be pluralists, just to make sure that all your first-term writings are alive. That's what we want. If we have a duty to do so, we will always show our efforts in reconciliation, in peace, in this Civil Charter. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0182par0345	Thank you, Mr. Silkface.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0183par0346	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0182par0347	Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0183par0348	In his speech, Mr. Orator has made an accusation that our party has committed crimes that are incompatible with the principles of the establishment. According to 69, I have a request for a statement from the bench.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0182par0349	Here you go. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] You have three minutes, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0183par0354	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have come to this day in every election over the course of the 16 years established in 2001, taking full marks from our nation, signing victory after victory, and again continuing the hope of serving our nation in the future. When we looked from our arrival to this day, we were on the side of freedom, democracy, law. With our constitutional and legal reforms, we have raised the democratic standards of our country today. Behind us, it says: "The government belongs to the nation unconditionally. The sovereignty of the kingdom belongs to the nation unconditionally. The opening of all institutions and boards of the country to democratic control of all its bodies. What do you mean, democratic control? So the national will is a system where representatives elected by the nation choose all institutions and boards; this is democratic control. So the MGK, the SEC, the HSYK, all institutions and boards are at some point subject to the control of Parliament of the national will. Here's the 69, remember, in 2010, we made constitutional reforms that made it difficult for those parties to be shut down, despite all interference and obstruction, praise be to God. If our parties are not shut down today... we have carried out this constitutional order... the most important mechanism for democracy's survival... with our efforts... and we will continue this struggle to the end. I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0184par0358	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0183par0359	No hard feelings.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0185par0360	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0184par0361	Thank you, Mr. President. We're not really on the side of this discussion, but there's one thing in the transcripts that we can't stand by for, which is the reference to the September 12, 2010 referendum. Of course, we know your honor was one of the fierce advocates of that September 12, 2010 referendum. In that referendum, we did not forget that they covered a poison with sugar, that we passed over more than 20, and that despite their calls, he would go with them. The most important of those toxins is the intervention of the PKK's terrorist organization to take over the judiciary. Today, everyone knows that the September 12, 2010 referendum loaded the bomb into the F16, put the diesel in the tank, and clothed the judges. This September 12, 2010 referendum, which delivered the high judiciary to the city, is not to be boasted, but a shameful attempt. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0186par0365	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0187par0366	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0186par0367	Mr. Özkan, make a brief statement and we'll complete it. Here you go, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0187par0369	Thank you, Mr. President. We need to underline -- see, when we talk too much -- the 2010 referendum has opened the door to all constitutional and legal democratisation reforms in this country. Is it possible that in 2010, the Constitutional Court, which continues on its way through custody -- unfortunately -- if it gains ground in the court, in the military, in the property, in the hospital, in the post office, in 2010? Despite the Constitution, the Constitution is a Constitutional Court decision which claims to have made constitutional audits by ignoring the Constitution. Of course, the academics, the legal community, the scientific world will surely assess it, but constitutional reform in 2010 is one of the most civil constitutional reforms in the Ottoman-Turkish constitutional work, as discussed all the time. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll say one more sentence.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0188par0373	Well, one more sentence, let's finish the discussion then, Mr. Özkan.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0187par0374	If the leader in Pennsylvania says after the Supreme Court's annulment, go out and vote. If he says so, then the constitutional reform that we have made has not opened up the way, but has caused the Constitutional Court to win the groundwork. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0189par0376	Mr. President, let the record show two very small reminders.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0190par0377	For the record, please. Dear friends, let's be quiet, this is the group's vice president speaking.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0189par0379	Mr. President, in his appeal as the owner of televisions that Mr. Hati found so much in that referendum, the leader called him to the game, and he didn't call him to the game. We're on the side that resists him, and you're on the side that defends the leader and the leader. Second of all, it's about closing the party. The 2010 referendum says, refresh the memory a little. The amendment to Article 69/7 of the Constitution under your hands shows that its finality is 3/10/2001, with a change of 23 July 1995. There is no change in the last referendum that makes it difficult to close the party. Read the Constitution you have. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0383	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0192par0384	For the record...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0385	Yes, Mr. Özkan, please.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0192par0386	However, despite our every effort, he did not pass through the Parliament during the 2010 Constitutional study. Then who said yes, who said no, it's in our nation's will. It would have been a much more advanced arrangement if we had not left the 69th article in its form in 1995, and had established a democratic quality as we today desired. The issue I'm referring to from the bench is that in 2010, the parties are not closed today due to our democratisation of the high judiciary, although reform on Article 69 has been blocked by opening democratic control mechanisms in the HSYK, Constitutional Court and bureaucracy. I'd like to submit this to the will of the High Council.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0388	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0193par0389	Mr. President, my final word is that in the process of closing the Justice and Development Party, the 2001 amendment is united over all the constitutionalists who were prevented from closing it. The second issue, the language that was used earlier, is the dominant expression of the terminology 2010 referendum, correct. All those who use those words are the ones who later manipulated the military espionage case as a result of their high-judgment manipulation. All high-judgment members who use this terminology are now discharged. This fact is still to be opened to more democratic control, or something, which is the language of Pennsylvania, which must be abandoned immediately.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0392	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0194par0393	Mr. President, since there are allegations that we can't ignore...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0394	Here you go. Let's finish with a final sentence, Mr. Ozkan, because your speaker is next, and I'd like him to speak on television time.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0194par0396	I don't think we should take too long. See, the point is, if we were to go to the 2010 referendum, if we hadn't done these constitutional reforms at that time, if we hadn't done the democratisation in the bureaucracy, you know what they once said, we wouldn't have surrendered to either of them if we wanted to take down the national will. Our struggle for him is the struggle for law, freedom and democracy. Today, our nation has been on our shoulders for sixteen years, and by God's permission, we will carry this assignment to light tomorrows.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0399	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0195par0400	Mr. President, just a reminder to Parliament: Don't play with your buyers' tunes, the sound can't rise, because that's the sound of closed Channel TV. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0191par0403	Okay, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, it is now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Mr. Genghis Aydoğdu, our Aksaray MP. Mr. Moonborn, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0196par0410	Mr. President, I wish you the best of luck in your new term of duty. Dear friends, we're changing the Civil Code. He's made almost all the points, my friends. In fact, we've made a technical change in the process of our country, in which the Constitutional Amendment and the Supreme Assembly have implemented its regulations in recent years. With that respect, rather than the Civil Law, I would like to share a few issues with my friends about Parliament, about the spirit in which Parliament is based, and what are we really doing with the Civil Charter? Dear lawmakers, it's the feeling of eternity that makes us appreciate the present, the present, the present, the moment that we live in, the moment that makes us aware of this moment, the feeling of eternity, that ideas and minds work in that field, and that's where we come up with ideas. He can't often report daily politics there, either. It's a gift of eternity, by man's creation, where we think of the long term, the future of our country, of our nation, of our people, of our family, of our past. When we look in this framework, parliament has started in England since its beginning -- this is where nations, peoples, crowds feel that they are a nation when they are represented in parliament; it is where crowds share the responsibility of the state in front of the state; it is where the state, the government, the sovereign monopoly is broken; it is where the demand of the people and the domain of the sovereign is created, and it is where consent is constructed. In this respect, parliament has two important qualifications: one, clarity, knowledge; and two, negotiation. So we can balance the power of the state with the people's weakness. The people's weakness is so powerful here that it aligns the power of the state. With this reputation, the negotiations are the opening of the government's ruling cabinet to the public, the dissolution of the government's privacy, the management secret, the disclosure of that secret. Negotiations are not essential in parliament, but negotiations are essential. We don't have a lot of time for compromises, we're too high for compromises. Compromise isn't always a win-win, it's often, often, even a loss-lose situation. We deal with mutual dissatisfactions, which is the essence of parliament, which is that the truth of the people is being upgraded to the state level. German philosopher Immanuel Kant calls it the update of the truth, a great expression, a great saying. In our world, Cüneyd-i Bağdadi, for example, says that our job is to separate the eternal from the timeline. Tanpınar the late, inspired by his teacher John Kemal, what we call "the nation" continues to change, to change, and to say, "The main thing is to continue." Parliament is that this ongoing choice of the nation is to somehow become a law by means of the negotiating technique. That's what Montesquieu is calling the spirit of the law, the rules of the nations, traditions, customs, customs, is basically the source of the law, and it comes here with elected representatives of the people, and it combines with the technique that the sovereign needs. The late Ali Fuat Basgil said: "Two things are important in Parliament." One, Parliament is a murakabe organ, a control body; two, a trust body, a trust body. You may have heard of it, we have a lawyer named Duguit, who says: "Parlamento is the common sense of technique, management technique. How do we build common sense?" We'll build it by negotiation. With this dignity, my dear brothers, a Parliament that builds the Imperial War is the source of all the forces in Turkey. No matter what power the state uses in Turkey, as long as this Parliament is open, this is its source, because our Parliament has somehow granted us this legitimacy while making the Istiklal War. Yes, the opening of our Parliament is by the decree of the padishah, but the historic adventure that we had had given to the Turkish nation was such a fate that we lost our entire state of suffering, our entire state of suffering, that we lost our entire state, that we flooded our entire state, that we barely saved a hearing place, that we declared the republic, that we earned our will, and that we did it with Parliament, and that we were very blessed, very rightly, and very gloriously from the beginning of the Republic of our Parliament, that the spirit of the laws that we were talking about, that we were able to save the nation from death, that we were given a way, that we were given a lot of the people, that we were given a chance to be a Turkish nation. As we speak of the Civil Code, I would like to bring up a subject of this precious issue of Parliament. In our Constitution, there is no paralegal recipe. The most well-known in political science is the definition of the German Constitution of 1921 Weimar, which is, as it were: the nation is a representative of all people, it is responsible only to its own conscience and it is not subject to any directives. This is something that our political tradition, our political practice, is not very familiar with, and we have been distant from practice from time to time. Immunity of the bench -- it can't pass without saying it when we're talking about the Civil Code -- is the way the people's will is reflected in Parliament, and the way they save it -- is to talk about the immunity of the nation. With that dignity, our Civil Code is not the law, it is not the constitution, it is between the two, it is the silent constitution. They say it is a guarantee of parliamentary immunity, parliamentary immunity, freedom of expression. Precious lawmakers, as a result of the domestic charter, are a legal arrangement that all parliaments, as all democracy in the world, have made of their own free will, and Parliament maintains a form of autonomy, rule of conduct, procedure, independence. The House makes the Civil Code itself and is not subject to presidential approval, it is the Parliamentary decision. I wish our new Civil Law to be good to our nation, to our assembly, and I salute the great assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0197par0421	Thank you, Mr. Aydoğdu. Dear lawmakers, the talks on the groups have been completed. Now, I'm going to start talking on behalf of the individuals. On behalf of the individuals, our Istanbul MP Mr. Nazır Jhangir Islam... Here you go, Islam.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0427	I wish you well on your new mission, Mr. President. Now, sixteen years have passed, my dear friends, and you have hardly touched this Civil Code. Of course, since there's no civil constitution and the last change you made is in the State of Emergency, there's a lot of trouble. We're aware of the problem, but your 16 years of idleness is not something you can explain with an excuse. Nine political parties are represented here right now, but five of them are talking. Why? Because the others don't have a group, being a political party MP without a group means that we can hardly speak in Congress. It's really good to have nine parties represented. There's a political pluralism here, but there's no verbal pluralism, so our freedom of expression is clearly restricted because of this Civil Code. Lawmakers like us, non-grouped political parties, can't be a member of the commissions once, we can't make a amendment motion, so in exceptional circumstances, either in a series of developments, or I thank Mr. CHP Group, for some political gestures they've made... [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, do you have any idea what we're doing to get a word in edgewise? First we wait for the number of rows to come up, then we go and read it, we read it, we write our petition -- three of us -- like a flag race, one from that corner, we hand over to him and we go and we petition him, but you have to do it in a minute or two. Oh, and when you do that, you've already got 60 AK PARTIPITs standing by there. It's obvious to them, and they're preparing their petitions, giving them ahead of us. You know that gambling law that you used to make, if a bet was made, which one gets a say in the petition of an AK PARTY MP and an AK PARTI? Believe me, all bookies will bet on you one to 60. (CHP) Because there is such an unjust Civil Code. Why? This is our mutual problem, dear friends. Thanks to the commission, the lawyers expressed the spirit of the 70s, something that carries the spirit of the 80s; the majority, based on conflict, unfair, manipulative, but since the Constitution and the Civil Code are both problematic, believe me, it's also quite difficult to address. The problems are more, look, the rights to talk, the commissioners, the seating arrangement; you threw us in the back, a short period later, in the near future, the Saadet Party will sit here, and you will go there, in the rear, as a couple of MPs. So design the changes you're going to make to the Civil Code based on this, so empathize, and be prepared for that. Now, there's been an argument in the Commission to see if the government can take the word or not. He says, briefly, the people can take the word. I don't know if Mr. Bozdağ is here, but a deputy on the commission pulls the microphone in front of him and doesn't take the word out, friends, a president promises him on the commission. Why are you saying this backwards? Then the people can have the word. The president can promise you what to say. Oh, if the president can promise, he may not. I mean, there's no certainty here, there's no legal language. Tell him the President promises to a congressman, that's it. The abuse... it's been abused in the past. Everyone who follows political history knows this closely, but we can't rule out exceptions, and we know that. So in the case of abuses like this, we put in special substances, or even, I don't know, when it's blocked by abuses like this, the Court of Parliament is called a referee, and we make some changes based on it, and we can change that Charter. To the Capitol investigation. I've got seven seconds. Will it be possible to extend it?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0199par0434	Yeah, yeah.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0435	I don't speak very much anyway. If there's a parliamentary investigation, Mr. President, I won't be able to go into it, the commissioners will go in, and you won't. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I mean, we're going in closed session, where we're going to raise our hand in the declaration of war, God forbid, but we're going to take down the President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0200par0439	Mr. Islam, just a second... I'll turn on your microphone, you're talking without a microphone.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0440	Let me start over. So when we set up a commission here and invite Mr. President to investigate, no lawmakers will be allowed in here. Is that a thing? This must be passed under closed session and each member of parliament must be included in these investigations. What surprised me most was the signature of this proposal: Bali Yıldırım, Izmir. That's all they wrote. Why not 600 MPs? Why not the Presidential Court? Why not the AK PARTY Group? Aren't you guys taking it easy?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0201par0443	He's representing the House. What kind of a thing is that?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0444	I'm afraid one person's understanding is also intended to enter this House, but we will resist it to the end, because instead of one person, we want a common mind, a palace, and a free relationship, instead of a relationship. Because we are against the palace, my friends. He just had an argument here. Why are we against it? Because the palace is an expression of a mind. When the palace comes, it doesn't just come with stone structure, it doesn't come with stone structure. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] She comes with her bridesmaids, she comes with her slaves.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0202par0447	You're eating people. Are you against people?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0203par0448	I promise to greet you again. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0449	Once the palace comes, it's not just made of stone, my friends. When the palace arrives, it comes with its slaves, like the third airport workers, and comes with its civilian dead, like the people of the KHK, and comes with its bridesmaids, and comes with its minions, and comes with its minions. That's why we're against the palace and the rule of one man. Believe me, we're not jealous. We don't have eyes on what you eat in lobsters and dragon waters! (CHEERING) We don't have eyes for the cars you're riding in, but you want to build a paradise in the presence of God to sustain this life.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0204par0451	Don't be jealous, work, it'll be yours.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0198par0452	And to maintain this paradise, you're making this world hell for us. That's what we're against.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0205par0454	Thank you, Islam. In order to speak, our Istanbul MP, Mr. Gibraltar. Here you go, Mr. Özdemir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0206par0458	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on the 2nd Amendment to the Turkish Grand National Assembly. I salute your high council. Mr. President, good luck with your mission again. I would like to reiterate today that the emphasis on the importance of Parliament, its presence, its efficiency on your opening address on the first day of your mission in Congress is very valuable to us MPs. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The amendment to Article 2 of which I have been promised is envisioned by the members of the political party group, or vice presidents, headed by the Council of Counsellors or vice-president of the Council of Ministers. It is important, frankly, to have a fair representation of political party groups on the Council of Counsellors, under the commission of this amendment, by an agreement on the opinions and proposals of political groups. In this case, it is also important in parliament to show how valuable it is to reconcile between political party groups and to provide common intelligence and to improve the functionality of parliament in terms of the time economy. Dear lawmakers, the Civil Code is the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which all of us have often expressed, as all the orators who have come up here have acknowledged, and it is an inheritance to lawmakers who will follow us. Therefore, it must be based on the common mind of the procedure and method before the changes to the Civil Code. A more liberal, more democratic, objective benchmark-based, transparent and participatory floor needs to be changed. Although some partial changes have been made in the Commission according to the first proposal to the commission, a comprehensive Civil Code amendment is clearly required. The internal regulations and regulations that will not undermine Parliament's powers and reputation must be made together. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, yes, the amendment to the Civil Code has come to the attention as mandatory and after a controversial constitutional arrangement of legitimacy. This recent constitutional amendment has come to our attention today because technical regulations have not been made in the Interior Charter, as the authority to conduct it has been handed over to a president with no legal or political responsibility. In the first election, after a constitutional amendment for a person, we witnessed the change in the Civil Code when the ruling party lost the majority of parliament, and the concern for how to make amends for this loss was first reflected. However, along with a compromise in the Commission phase, a provision text emerged. So that's what we were against, that we were against the Constitutional Amendment, that we were at the point of breaking the organic bond of law and execution in legislature activities. However, when we look at the basis of this Civil Code amendment proposal, it is particularly sought to provide a short-term solution to the problems that arise with legislation and the removal of the organic bond of the executive body in the first, second and third paragraphs. That's exactly what we faced during the Constitutional Amendment. Dear lawmakers, as a member of parliament who served in the 26th term, we have witnessed the fundamental constitutional amendment and critical debates in the stages of the Commission and the General Assembly and in the negotiations of the Interior Charter -- in unsanitary conditions, in non-human conditions -- and in your forgiveness -- we have witnessed how laws have been smuggled through the Commission and the General Assembly. The amendments to the Civil Code were one of them. We have all witnessed how Parliament, us, as representatives of the people, restricts the will of lawmakers, the field of activity. So with this amendment, I'm afraid the organic link between the executive body and Parliament has been cut off, and today we've come to the point of discussing how to build that organic bond. However, it is vital that Parliament work effectively and make a qualified law. How will the legislature function, how will it be strong, how will it be a more prestigious Parliament, in a structure where its executive authority belongs to a president? Unfortunately, these very important issues have not been discussed thoroughly enough, so we always have to make these partial changes. In order for parliament to become stronger and more respected, we have witnessed attempts to remove the power of the opposition when it is necessary to ensure that its primary mission of balance and control can be done effectively, and we are still discussing them.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0207par0467	Mr. Özdemir, let's give it another minute.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0206par0468	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, it is imperative that the opposition also have regulations that guarantee their rights. Unfortunately, in these partial changes today, we can't see them either. Participants in parliament need to improve the dignity, dignity of Parliament, and strengthening the quality of legislature, not the establishment of Parliament's Inclusion, by making a clear understanding of the majority mindset. Finally, we are facing political and economic crises created by the governing system, which, unfortunately, as a general management system, despite all our warnings, today is one man who has been eliminated from control, personal, arbitrary and powerful forces. We, the Republican People's Party, once again say that it is imperative to make a democratic, modern, liberal and participating Civil Code and most importantly a constitution. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit03spe0208par0474	Thank you, Mr. Özdemir. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, we've completed the talks on the individuals. Now, we move on to question-and-answer for ten minutes on Article 2 of the proposal. Since there are no MPs entering the system, we're moving on to the question-answer process. Members of the law, I submit the 2nd Amendment to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0208par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Fourth Session of the 5th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Charter Proposal No. 4 rows. The commission is in place. Our Deputy Secretary General is standing by as a representative of our House. We will now begin negotiations on Article 3 of the proposal. The following joke was added following the fourth joke of the 21st Article of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the MPs elected to be member of the Plan and Budget Commission and Wishing Commission in its fourth joke were removed from the article. A political party group can name a replacement for a member elected to the General Assembly from his quota. In this case, the General Assembly will vote by sign. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of the groups on the 3rd article that we now read. On behalf of the groups, the first word belongs to our Aksaray MP, Ayhan Erel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Here you are, Mr. Erel.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0209par0014	Mr. President, first of all, I wish you all the best. Precious MPs, great Turkish nation, at the beginning of my words, I pray to God to heal my veterans with gratitude, gratitude, and mercy, for all our martyrs who have been mowed down in the prime of their lives, like the fields of heaven, and for all the land's land, and for all the roses that September broke, and for all their friends, Mustafa Pehlivanoglu and friends, whom I have broken. In the talks held here, there was a general belief that Parliamentary Interior was a secret constitution or a silent constitution. Since the Constitution is a social contract, as we all know in agreements, there are parties, if the parties are free to present their wills and come up with a contract as a result of the overlap of these wills, this contract becomes very long, and it is governed by the principles of this contract for many years, but if one of the parties tries to dictate its will on the basis of its numerical superiority, then another will that overcomes the numerical superiority of these contracts will go away. Five times in Turkey, the amendment of the Constitution finds that the amendments to the Constitution have not been fully established and that the will of the parties is dictated to the other side by the superior party. Again, it is not possible to benefit from the application, even though it is said that there is a way to obtain information and control in the Constitutional Court under Article 98, in the form of parliamentary inquiry, parliamentary inquiry and written questions. As such, we have not yet received a positive or negative response to the written request that the healthcare problems in Aksaray are resolved and that the answers to these problems should be answered by the Health Minister. However, in Aksaray, in the middle of Turkey, in the middle of Turkey, there is a geographical position that connects the north to the south and the east to the west, with thousands of Afghans and Syrians as well as hundreds of workers from the Southeast region trying to earn bread in the agricultural season. In 2015, Aksaray Hospital, which the Minister of Health laid the foundation of the period and declared to be in service in 2017, did not enter the service. However, the Aksaray State Hospital currently has 512 beds, but the new hospital has 400 beds. Over the course of time, our population has increased, but unfortunately, the number of beds in the hospital has decreased. How the Minister of Health will put 512 beds in a 400-bed hospital, how he will provide healthy service to our Aksaray residents, and we are concerned and conflicted about that. Again, this new hospital, unfortunately, does not bring medical equipment, tools, and tools of the old hospital, and medical equipment that is compatible with the technology of the day. There are no specialists in almost any of the districts of Aksaray, and there are no dentists in the districts of Aksaray. Again, speaking of canyon valleys, vegetation, nature, history, art and culture meets together as a natural wonder as the second largest canyon valley in the world, but people who come to see this wonder from all over the world don't see all its wonders, all its beauty. Because the ups and downs of the valley, about 100 to 120 metres deep, are causing major problems, especially by elderly people, who come for cultural tourism. So far, the government's elevator, cable car, and navigation terrace have not been fulfilled. Our fellow citizens demand that these promises be fulfilled and that the city be given a share of the cost taken from tourists who come here. Again, the Ihlarans look forward and look forward to the fact that Ihlara (Ihlara) is a district in order to receive more shares of tourism. The city is not given any of the money paid by tourists, which is also a site of historical and of course beauty, which they are experiencing. The problems in Aksaray are knee-deep. The divided road between Ortaköy and Aksaray was laid down five years ago, but so far it has not been completed. Natural gas studies are interrupted. Although citizens live on agriculture and livestock in Aksaray Ortaköy, the demand for organised industry based on agriculture and animalism has so far not been met. The connections to the villages of our Okurören district have not been made so far, and today, as a result of the tender, the bidder expects citizens to finish the road before winter comes, before the land gets stuck in the mud. At Lake Helvadere, a beautiful lake of Aksaray. In our district, problems with infrastructure, electricity and drinking water continue. They expect the university to open a university of applied sciences in order to improve its development, in culture, social and economic areas, to destroy its own shell. In our region, we call it eskill, the problems of people who work in agriculture have become too big to solve. The barley, wheat, corn, and sugar beets that they harvested were sadly unable to cover their expenses. The fact that our government, especially our Minister of Agriculture, has set the price of barley, wheat bases by next year's terms, offering our citizens a plan and a project to see where it's going, will eliminate farmers' concerns and concerns about whether they will sow. For the farmer who plowed his field in Aksaray, declares that he will sow so that the cost of plowing the field may not go to waste, but that he will not lay dung on his fields because the dung is too expensive, and that the citizens who do not plow his field will not sow this year. At this rate, it is evident that there will be a shortage of grain in our country in the coming years. Again, there are complaints in subcontractors that people who have been referred to as subcontractors, who have been working continuously but who have not been given permission and report, who have been replaced by workers, that our workers have not been recruited, that drivers working in public institutions, I.T.s, and people serving in the kitchen have not been recruited, whereas the Minister of Social Security and Labor of the period has said that all subcontracted workers should be recruited. I await the swift fulfillment of these promises to our citizens, our nation, and salute your high council with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0210par0029	Thank you, Mr. Erel. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, our Istanbul MP, Ismail Faruk Aksu... Here you go, Mr. Aksu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0211par0033	Mr. President, Congressmans, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the Proposal for Change in Turkey's Grand National Assembly, with respect to the General Assembly and the mighty Turkish nation. One of our soldiers and one of the business operators were killed and three others were injured today as a result of a terrorist attack on Hakkari. Five days ago, eight of our soldiers were killed in Batman. I pray to God for the mercy of our Mehmets who fell to the ground in the defense of the country, and to our wounded for immediate healing. I'd like to put it to you that these heroes who drink witness after witness after witness, as well as our other security forces, are experts and expert sergeants who don't allow terrorism. As the National Movement Party, we have repeatedly voiced the recruitment of expert sergeants working under difficult circumstances and improving their financial and autonomy rights, offering law proposals, and committed to our election statement. We didn't understand, we criticised, we criticised, and we will continue to express their woes from this stand until their legitimate demands were fulfilled, while they died for the cause of the nation, the nation, and the sanctity. Honourable MPs, as it is known, demonstrated the Turkish nation's will to change the Constitution in its popularisation on 16 April 2017. Thus, the government system is subject to radical reform, and a significant step has been taken on behalf of the construction of a powerful state with the presidential government system and the establishment of a democratic structure. The new system is built on basic goals, such as providing a strong and stable administration with effective legislation and strengthening democracy. In the elections held on June 24th, our nation approved the full implementation of the presidential government system, and when the President was sworn in on July 9, 2018, the new government system was actually implemented. As with many laws in this framework, the Turkish Parliament's Institution of the Grand National Assembly, which has been in effect since September 1, 1973, has also been mandatory. As a result of the Constitutional amendment, some Civil Code clauses have completely lost their function, some of the clauses have had to be changed significantly, while some of the issues that were not previously held, such as the President's criminal responsibility, have to be regulated and included in the Internal Charter. For example, it is necessary for the Constitution to ensure harmony with the Constitution that the law's mandate to submit the bill has been concluded with a constitutional amendment. In addition to the mandatory regulations, the proposal includes some regulations for the efficiency and efficiency of legislation. In this framework, there is also the dissolution of existing Civil Charter materials and the deregulation of some practices that have become strong. The third article we've discussed predicts that the Council of Counsellors of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can also be president and that only group presidents or MPs can attend the meetings. The ruling that political party groups can appoint an MP on the Counsellor's Council by writing is lifted. On the other hand, a written question motion will be answered by the Vice President or a minister to carry out the budget presentation speech, and the parliamentary inquiry, the ratification of inter-national agreements, and the process of the process of criminal responsibility of the President, Vice President, Vice President and ministers will be carried out in extraordinary haste. Members of parliament, we also feel it is necessary to make mandatory changes within the framework of compliance with the Constitution, as well as to make comprehensive changes that will make legislation effective and efficient. This framework requires the implementation of a Civil Charter, which will enable the establishment of a democratic, transparent, pluralistic and participating legislative process. According to us, the basic principle that should be observed in the Civil Code change should be a healthy definition of the government's relationship in accordance with the spirit of the government system, in order to ensure that the entire government system can be established in a healthy manner through its institutions and rules, in harmony with the system, efficiency and quality in legislation, efficient participation in the process of law-making, effective participation in the process of law-making. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey is undoubtedly the most important resource for the declaration of the mandate and powers between the bodies of law and executive relationship, the relationship between the bodies and the determination of business forces in accordance with the presidential government system. The implementation of the Civil Code amendment also makes reconciliation between political parties important. We consider that political parties are open for compromise, which is important for an effective legislation. Surely it would be helpful to consider those who remain in line with the findings of the Civil Code labour commissions, which have so far been established in parliament. Enhancing our citizens' participation in the legislative process through NGOs is one of the requirements of democracy, and further mechanisms should be implemented that will make it more effective with regulations in the Civil Code and the Parliamentary administration. The new government system is known to contain a powerful balance and control mechanism. In this scope, the activation of legislation in the framework envisioned in the Constitution shall be one of the primary goals of the Civil Code amendment. The focus of the legislation and control process will increase the quality of the legislation and ensure the emergence of an effective Assembly. One of the most important tasks in parliament is the audit of public spending. This authority and responsibility, called budget rights, should also be regulated in the Civil Code. It would be appropriate to consider the restructuring of the government system of permanent occupational commissions in order to ensure that the control of financial expenditures can be done effectively and in a healthy manner, and to establish a permanent commission for reviewing the final accounts, other than the allocation of funds in this framework. The arrangements for the establishment of political ethics to maintain and develop the dignity of politics, politics, and the entire state order, as well as for the establishment of a law enforcement operation in accordance with national strategic plans. An activity in legislative activities must not be forgotten, along with the amendment to the Civil Code, which requires the development and representation of the Turkish Parliament's administrative capacity in accordance with the new government system. Dear lawmakers, the presidential government system has a compromise and is capable of making it possible to walk together in the future. In the event that all social communities, especially the political institution, act in harmony with that understanding, we believe that the Turkish nation has the potential and the potential to re-create a large synthesis by gaining democratic universal gains in its historical experience and cultural depth. Through the presidential government system, a strong Turkey -- which is able to make peace with its own national and historical values, its ability to solve problems, its ability to establish a improved, effective state order, and its position in the nation's community -- will be the leading country in world politics and economic life in the 21st century. As I put an end to my words with these thoughts, I wish that the amendment of the Civil Code be good, and I salute you worthy members of the High Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0212par0049	Thank you, Mr. Aksu. Dear lawmakers, the talks on behalf of the groups are over. Now, we're going to begin the talks on behalf of the individuals. On behalf of the individuals, Mr. Erdal Aydemir, our Bingol MP... Here you go, Mr. Aydemir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0213par0054	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, of course, are the constitution of our House of Parliament. How was this needed? We all remember that Mr. President of the State Garden, Mr. President of the MHP, Mr. President of the State Gardens, has come to the conclusion that either we will adapt the actual situation to the Constitution, or we will apply the Constitution to the actual situation. After this determination, we will go to the country's agenda to study a constitutional amendment that can implement all the characteristics, desires, perceptions, thoughts, and ideas of one person. Thus, even as this study was being carried out, the legitimacy of the constitutional amendment began to be discussed even as it began. In fact, a constitutional or constitutional amendment is an extraordinary period if the period in which it is being made, in itself, makes the legitimacy of the Constitutional Amendment controversial and controversial. Thus, according to such a constitutional amendment, these changes in the House of Parliament should be assessed and described in this context. As a member of Parliament who has spent most of his life under martial law and the conditions of the State of Emergency, I truly salute you all again. What I personally experienced in my life in Bingöl, in both martial law and the conditions of the State of Emergency, is that it is the reality that declaring a state of emergency does not solve a single single one of the problems in the country, because the State of Emergency means pressure, which means that the State of Emergency is arbitrary. The State of Emergency may not be able to solve any problems with this feature, but only to deepen the social, political, and economic problems that exist. Dear lawmakers, the next Civil Code proposal clause aims to adapt the State of Emergency arrangement in the Interior Charter to the Constitution, which emerged after the 2016 referendum. As representatives of the ruling party have pointed out, this arrangement is a complete adjustment. However, many members of parliament at this time know very well that the value of legal regulations is legitimate, not in harmony. The 2016 referendum and then the June 24th elections, again under the conditions of the State of Emergency, have eliminated the legitimacy of the Constitutional Amendment. In fact, the amendment to the Civil Code that we are currently negotiating is also under the conditions of the State of Emergency. You remember that after the June 24th elections, Law 7145 was issued and the State of Emergency was made permanent. Since 2015, Turkey has entered a serious turbulence of democracy. The political and social crises following the turbulence of this democracy, and the latest economic crisis has affected every citizen in the country in a scorching way. During the general elections held on June 7th 2015, the people of Turkey single-handedly ended the power of the AKP, demanding that the country's administration be ruled by a broader and pluralist partnership, but the November 1st elections were held after the destruction of public will, between gunshots and the smell of gunpowder. The nationalist alliance, established ahead of the November 1st election, has been continued, and the people of Turkey have thus far faced individual, private, legal, but illegal regulations. The constitutional amendment, which was taken to the referendum on April 16th, which put all the authority in one person, was essentially a private arrangement. Again, the June 24th elections in the State of Emergency were a struggle to give one person all the power. In all this process, the joint property of the SECs issued under the authority of the State of Emergency declared on July 20, 2016 was to eliminate all those who opposed it, opposed it, obstructed it in the face of absolute power.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0214par0062	Mr. Aydemir, I'll give you a minute to greet. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0213par0064	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I have to cut down. As a result, we need to stress that the constitutional changes that resemble patched bundles in Turkey serve only the spirit of the Constitution of 1982 and only the spirit of the Constitution. It is an urgent necessity for the democratic constitution to get rid of the multi-crisis, political, social, economic dimensions that we are in today, and then a democratic Civil Code to save the Parliament's own functioning. I salute you all with these thoughts and feelings, reminding you that it is our first duty to satisfy the desire for democracy, freedom, equality and justice of the peoples of this country. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0215par0069	Thank you, Mr. Aydemir. Dear MPs, the second speaker on behalf of the individuals, Mr. Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kayishoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0216par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. Again, good luck with your new assignment. Mr. President, I have made a personal pledge on the third amendment to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Yes, this Civil Code contains technical changes. There are changes that have to be made, because even if the Constitution was passed unsealed, and the Constitution, which we do not accept as legitimate, just like the Constitution of September 12th, is required to be changed because there is no government, the Council of Ministers, the bill, the bill, the bill, the prime minister, and we are making changes to this. It also shows that in the name of -- in fact, the practices we live in in this process -- this freaky system, which is not in literature, which you call the presidential government system, is not sustainable, even when you say its name from time to time. Which we know, especially in our economic crisis, that when we see tomatoes in markets and markets, we know that this regime is the cause of this regime, with the news of the martyrs coming every day. In fact, the amendment to the Civil Code shows that this regime is not sustainable. Why is he showing it? Three things are missing from the system you call the presidential government system. What are those? One, there is no president. Why not? Because the President is the president of a party, not the president of a community. Unfortunately, there's not one person we used to call the President, who's neutral, who embraces the whole crowd. Secondly, there is no government. Why not? There's only one person in the administration, and they're running the process he's assigned, the technoccrats, the bureaucrats, the boards, the offices and so on, and there's no government, and we can call it government. The other thing is, there's no system. Why not? So, we're looking at this Civil Charter arguing, who's going to propose international agreements, how's he going to propose? Sir, no verbal questions will be asked, but the ministers will come. As our Deputy Director of the Free Group said, when we were talking about this Constitution, we were always saying: "Why are you reducing these rules of control? Why are you destroying them?" How will you ask the minister who does not exist? But in the past period, he was at work asking questions about our Omar Fethi Deputy. For example, here he was, Mr. Savesy, what's wrong with Nigde, he was learning, he was answering the streets, and the people's Parliament could actually carry out its mission, but you took it out. Now that you say so, let the minister come. Then, of course, they will enforce the law that we shall make here. It's not very possible to make a disenchanted legal arrangement, which has already been predicted that this parliamentary democratic system was brought as the most appropriate system, established in this country. It came from a certain experience, filtered out, the most appropriate system. But you spent the April 16th referendum today in an environment where the governors often travel from village to village under pressure, and use all state resources, and by accepting unsealed ballots against the law, and now we're all living in this stalemate together. Here many, or rather, the speakers from the first group and fourth group of the Assembly said: "With this system, we have brought the President criminal responsibility. What happened was, for God's sake, we've brought criminal responsibility to the president. You say, "Well, do you think that's practical?" I mean, how can we bring criminal responsibility to the president when you make it impossible to implement it and we can't blame it on a president without a vote of 400 deputies? You can say, "It doesn't really make sense." This system is actually bankrupt before it's even in effect, before it's fully implemented, which is a sign of that. This changes in the Civil Code is also a sign of this, and all our suffering is a sign of that. We wish with the same compromise that we could re-establish this country in every sense, economically, in terms of justice, in terms of justice, in terms of judicial independence, in terms of democracy, in terms of education -- whatever problems there are -- in order to bring the Constitution to prosperity and to bring it to a good level -- we wish to turn it back to the parliamentary democratic regime, and to make it a democratic inner charter. I salute the entire General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0217par0082	Thank you, Mr. Kayishoglu. Dear lawmakers, on behalf of individuals, the talks have been completed in Article 3. We don't have a friend who hacked into the QA system on Article 3 of the proposal. That's why we're moving on to the question-answer process. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the third article: those who accept... those who refuse... the clause is accepted. Dear lawmakers, I'm having you read article four: MADDE 4- Article 31 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been changed as follows. The 31-MADDE Commission meetings are open to members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly, vice presidents, ministers, deputy ministers, and senior public executives. In the commissions, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, vice presidents, ministers and deputy ministers can take the words on behalf of executives. However, no one, except the commissioners, can and cannot vote for changes. Each member can see and read the documents of a commission he is not a member of. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for words on behalf of groups on Article 4 of the article, there is a request for a statement on behalf of individuals. On behalf of the individuals, the first word belongs to Mr. Omar Faruk Gergerlioğlu. Here you go, Mr. Gergerlioglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0218par0092	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since the clause we're going to discuss is the statement of the ruling, I'm not going to talk about the specifics on the matter, I'm going to talk about the provisions of the law. In the last two years, there have been hundreds of thousands of people who have suffered major casualties, decrees under the law, a justification for hundreds of thousands of people who have suffered social death, civilian kindness, with great judicial executions. We'll talk about it. There are huge violations going on in a law-ordered state right now, and the Constitution is being violated, and we're going to bring that up here. By creating a constitutional violation, the KHKs emerged and were later outlawed, but it must be annulled as a preconceived violation of the Constitution. Victims must be given back their rights, their financial-management rights refunds. The State of Emergency Commission is making legal decisions as an administrative institution as a so-called state-of-the-art institution. Incredibly, he's playing with the fate of 125 thousand people, making extremely informal judgments. He's decided on 36,000 people, returned 2,300 people, unfortunately hasn't returned 33,700 people, and he's agreed on them. The State of Emergency Commission will be called in history as a commission to increase violations. The work of exported educators is also prevented from working at private sector educational institutions. It is blocked by the National Board of Education. You've exported, this person will work at the private institution, and you're getting in the way of that, you're trying to say dead. NGOs, who have never been investigated, who have been acquitted, are not being extradited. Non-investigation, non-instruction and acquittals are not employed in private educational institutions; the State of Emergency Commission can answer to non-investigating, non-obstruction and acquittals. It's very interesting, it's amazing, it's a violation of the Constitution. Because above constitutional institutions, despite the decisions made by the courts of the Republic of Turkey, he is able to refuse victims despite lack of surveillance and acquittal. Nowhere in the world can you see such a thing. The Commission's criteria are not legal, they're arbitrary. Many responses indicate that other people's information has been caused by confusion in the petitions. Again, the KPSS exams make intense complaints of poor grades, even though the next of kin received high grades in writing. Because interviews aren't monitored by camera either. A ban on passports is also under way for KHK residents. In fact, they have been given this kind of respite to their relatives. Despite the State of Emergency's statement that the compensations to the spouses and children of the KHK have been lifted by the Ministry of Interior, the tariffs are still under way. Although thousands of scientists are called from universities abroad, they can't go abroad; families that have been torn apart are very large. Since the passports of KHK students have been revoked, they cannot continue their studies abroad. Look, this is a very important, illegal country. You exported the academic with the KHK. This incident happened in Ankara. An academic named Cenk Yigiter was expelled from law school. He took the university exam again. He won the journalism department. He didn't register this person. Is that possible, dear friends? Thousands of foundations and associations have been shut down by the Turkish Cypriots, and everyone has avoided becoming a member of the NGOs. He was exported for investing money in the government's bank, thousands of people and plus, he blocked the bank's money. NGOs are not given social aid and solidarity; they are not given such aid in incredible cruelty.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0219par0100	Mr. Gergerlioglu, I'll give you a minute to wrap it up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0218par0101	KHK graduates are granted long-term military service instead of short term. The people of the KHK are not granted documents even though they have won their workplace medicine and occupational safety exams. She has won the exam in December 2017, but she has not received her papers for ten months. We've asked, we've been asked, we've been given written question motions, and on September 24th, these documents have been announced as a gift, and there are still a lot of people who haven't been given them. Lawmakers from KHK are currently not granted legal licenses. For some other reason, these people who were expelled from law school were not given a license, or a public service. There is no such thing. The articles of the Turkish Cypriots are even being removed from scientific journals. There has never been such a genocide, such a social death, lynching, slaughter anywhere in the world. There are over 1,000 medical students who have been victimised by a security investigation. They've finished six years of medical school, and due to their security investigation, they can't do their jobs right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] And my final sentence, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0219par0104	Well, here's to you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0218par0105	They are prevented from retiring; they work for twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven years, pay their premiums, eventually they are prevented from retiring, and they are not given bonuses. Right now, hundreds of people are looking for the right to be held in court. Again, many who are expelled from the IRS are not tested for financial counseling, they are not. They are not employed in rehabilitation centres, they are not employed in building control companies. The state exported it, and it's called death, even though we claim it's a state of law. Let's not forget that. In this period of power, unfortunately, there have been incredible irregularities, and we're saying it again, and we're going to pursue these irregularities to the end. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0220par0110	Thank you, Mr. Gergerlioglu. The second word on behalf of the individuals belongs to our MP, Mr. Ali Mahir Akarir. Here you go, Mr. Successor.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0221par0114	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on the motion to make a amendment to the Council of Parliament. I salute the General Assembly. Before I begin my words, today I bless our two soldiers who were martyrs in Hakkari, and I pray for mercy, and I curse terror once again. It's a happy occasion for the House to reach an agreement with the Civil Code, to come to a conclusion with the common mind. These are supposed to be our actions, but are they enough to protect the reputation of this House, the history of this House? It's never enough. We have to protect the history of the House. I look forward to this place, with respect, to our founder, Mustafa Kemal, our savior, who says, "The kingdom belongs to the nation unconditionally." Besides, we have a very important state elder for this House, and I don't know how aware we are, but Ismet Inönon has laid the foundation for the construction of these rows, of this Assembly. We have to take care of our past. Look, Ismet Paşa is the elder in the government who both signed Lausanne on the front and caused us to speak today. If there are five parties in this parliament, if there are three MPs, it's because of Ismet Pasha. In 1947, Ismet Pasha, knowing that perhaps he was going to lose the election, ran for multiparty life, gave honor, pride, and pride to the Democratic Party. It's no one's place to insult him.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0222par0119	The people gave, the people gave.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0221par0120	Understand what I'm saying. Ismet Pasha, a commander who fought on the front, fought with his soldiers. When the people were in the street, when the soldier was in the street, when people were dying, he didn't hide himself in a tunnel, he didn't fly around the corner of the plane, he didn't hide in a hotel in Marmaris. Everyone has to respect him.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0222par0123	Well, that didn't happen, now, did it? Look, that didn't happen, but now. That didn't happen.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0223par0124	Where did you hide? Where did you hide?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0224par0125	Where did your President-General hide? Where was your President General?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0225par0126	Look, Ismet Pasha never put a $700,000 watch on his arm. The wife of Ismet Pasha never put a $35,000 bag on her arm. He has not received a medal of honor above the Jews, but only one medal, which is the Istrillal Medal.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0223par0128	You're full of shit, you're full of shit. You're being ridiculous, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0225par0129	Look, you guys should have reacted when that flag was flashed on Red Jack because that document was fake.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0226par0130	Where's the fake?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0227par0131	Fake, fake.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0228par0132	Let's not talk mutually, dear MPs.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0133	The Turkish flag in that picture was taken out by your president. Perhaps it was you who removed the Turkish flag from Ismet Pasha, which the Greeks couldn't do during the invasion of the enemy, to humiliate our history, our past with a forged document. (CHP) This may sound very funny to you, but I'm telling you again, these seats you're sitting in, these seats that you're sitting in, they're based on Ismet Innu. We all have to respect him. This is the only way to protect the dignity of the House.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0230par0134	Yeah, he could have brought you, the people brought us.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0135	We have to change our laws, just as we've been able to change Parliamentary Council by compromise here. Our law is on the line. Look, the world is laughing at us. There are 100 lawmakers here, a lawyer who was arrested last week while he was on trial, and a 40-year-old colleague of ours was arrested by a two-year-old magistrate.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0230par0136	Who the hell is that attorney?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0137	Then the Supreme Court dropped him off seven hours later...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0231par0139	Mr. Aqir, I'm giving you time to wrap it up. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0141	We thought that court was doing a good thing. That court also evacuated that lawyer with a restraining order. People who report poverty, poverty in this country are being taken into custody by people who take pictures. You can't give a judge to the European Court of Human Rights. The world is laughing at you because Turkey has no legal security, no safety, no property security. No one's investing in Turkey, you're alone, but whenever you're in trouble, you attack mosques either Ismet Pasha or Mustafa Kemal. (CHEERING) I think you should see the facts. If you want to compromise, if you want to compromise...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0232par0142	And you stop lying.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0143	I listened to that lie, and you listened to it.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0233par0144	Let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0229par0145	Everyone here knows who the liar is.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0233par0146	Mr. Orator, you address the General Assembly. Put your words together. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0234par0149	I'm picking it up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0233par0150	In fact, salute him.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0234par0151	Sir, if you'll just give me one more minute, I'll clean it up.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0233par0152	If you'd like to collect it with a bow, Mr. Mahir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0234par0153	This law...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0235par0154	You're eating the bread of this country! We're all eating his bread.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0234par0155	I'm eating the bread I earn with my sweat. It's obvious who eats the bread, eats the palace, you eat it. [[Noises from the AK PARTY]] I'm finishing up. We all have to protect this law. Everybody needs this law. Look, there are 76,000 prisoners in 2002, and there are 250,000 prisoners today. Either you've turned this community into a crime, or your judges can't see anything but you. Please clean up these justice judges who served in the party boards and then went to court; it doesn't suit this country. Let's change this legal system, the judicial system, an independent judiciary, a non-political judgment. Thank you, I'm paying my respects.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0236par0160	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0237par0161	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0236par0162	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0237par0163	I'd like a word from 69. The Hatibi's speech involved heavy taunts and insults.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0236par0164	I promise you for two minutes. Don't give birth to a new tease, Mr. Akbasoglu. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0238par0170	You know, I'm not supposed to answer nonsense, but I'm only here for the record, so I'm sorry. But I really recommend that this speaker listen to his own speech from Parliament TV.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0239par0171	I think you should watch it one more time.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0238par0172	Dear friends, as a result, the material reality is as clear as the sun, it cannot be hidden by slander. Facts have a habit of coming out, a water. On July 15th, everyone who was present here, the whole nation and all humanity watched live. And then those who can't watch it on social media can actually watch those images, those calls, those upright postures over and over again. We cannot be grateful enough for having such a upright, honorable leader. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Yeah, he's been in front of tanks, really, maybe the greatest leadership of the last century, and don't be jealous, friends, don't be jealous that you can't have such a leader. This leader is the leader of all of us, leader of Turkey, leader of the world. As a result, don't bother with the person. It's really funny.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0240par0176	Your president is not our leader.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0241par0177	I've given you a minute to finish your words. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0238par0178	Thank you, you promise very gracefully. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0241par0179	You're welcome.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0238par0180	Dear friends, I'd like to say that July 15th is a great date, a great start.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0242par0181	The monster you created.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0238par0182	On the 15th of July, let no one desecrate this heroism. How heroic it is to fight for the first will, the resistance of July 15th, the war of a nation, the war of existence, the stand against all imperialists, and the saying of his death to the squares! (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) It's an epic legend of great heroism and victory in history with golden letters. The fact that some mufter try to shrink it, ignore it, never alters the truth and the truth. On this occasion, I... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...the 15th of July is with mercy, with gratitude, and with good luck, with good health, with good pleasure, and with all of you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0243par0187	In the meantime, please remember the martyrs of the Imperial War.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0244par0188	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0245par0189	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0244par0190	Mr. Special, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0245par0191	Mr. President, Mr. Group Vice President, during his speech...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0244par0193	Folks, this is the deputy leader of the group, please listen to him.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0245par0194	Mr. Group Vice President has accused our group of slandering and slandering in his speech.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0246par0195	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0244par0196	Mr. Akbasoglu, let's hear it for Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0246par0197	I didn't slander the group, I said the speaker's words were slander, yes.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0247par0198	And don't be jealous by returning to our group, friends. You don't have a leader like that.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0248par0199	You don't have that kind of leader.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0249par0200	Mr. Special, why don't we wrap this up in two minutes, and we won't have another discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0250par0203	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers just came out here and said, "It's beneath slander." It is not appropriate for the founding fathers of the Republic to speak to the founding staff, especially when a group of vice presidents who complained that the country should be broken from the context of a promise, seeing what is in the hands of a man whom they all say should be president, the country's second president, the victorious commander, waving the flag of America to the great negotiator of the Lauzan table, he says.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0251par0204	What's he shaking?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0250par0205	We can see he's holding a Turkish flag.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0252par0206	That's a separate picture, that's a separate picture, guys, two separate pictures.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0250par0207	In this picture, the people who gave the Turkish flag to your world leader have blacked it out with a photoshop. The flag that Greece couldn't take from Ismet Pasha, your white trolls, your white trolls! [[Applause from CHP rows]] The shame will somehow fall off the President's neck, and he'll come out and apologize. From Ismet Pasha, from the founding staff of the republic, from the hero of the national struggle, one of the Ak trolls blacked out the glorious flag with a phototosop. So I took it in my hand without paying attention, and I transgressed. He will say, "I am sorry." That's how you clean it up. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Otherwise, don't speak to a main opposition party that opened this House on July 15th, ran here with our deputy, who was not the target, who lit up and targeted the parliament from all political parties, who, no matter how, would resist its bombs. But we're dealing with a fact. You're saying: "The First Battle of Salvation, the Second Battle of Salvation" [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Excuse me, sir.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0253par0214	Mr. Special, let's complete.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0250par0215	I don't know what it is, but know this: The First War of the Istrillal War, which you speak of, is the First War. The only victorious commanders of the Instance War, which you call it, did not give to the armies of the occupation that day, to our soldiers, to our nation, what they had asked for that day. We didn't give the Greek army what it wanted. We didn't make our children go to Greek military schools, we didn't shed tears with them at their ceremonies. (Applause) We didn't put the diesel in the Greek army's tank with our own hands, in the F-16. We didn't put the bomb in the September 12, 2010 referendum with our own hands. We didn't cause trouble for the republic, the Greek judges who were going to operate on the Turkish army. (CHP cheers) So July 15th is a day when the people have a heroic democracy, and we're all in it. But until July 15th, you're the one who's facing the privileged congregation, causing trouble, and somehow trying to get yourself out of it today. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0218	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0255par0219	Mr. Akbasoglu, come in.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0220	I'd like word on the 69th Amendment for bullying again.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0255par0221	Mr. Akbasoglu, let's do this...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0222	There's bullying.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0255par0224	One second... friends, I can't hear Mr. Akbasoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0225	All of us, our group, he's made some unrealistible statements, taunting.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0255par0226	Mr. Akbasoglu, I promise not to cause any further bullying.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0227	We're not picking on him, but he's coming over and over and over again, assuming there's bullying, yes.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0255par0228	Let's not cause any more bullying. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0232	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, who are now removing the incident from its context, are actually showing an approach to how we've removed their testimony from our context by throwing it at us. Dear friends, the issue that comes up about Inönamamam, about McKinsey, is that the political criticism of approaches to a historical heritage in the past of the People's Democratic Party (HDP) is that it does not deal with the individual unless it has a political criticism of the past attitude and behavior of the People's People's People's Democratic Party (HDP). Other than that, I'd like to point out that there are a number of different quests to get a provocative speech and from there, in a purely strategy, to break the climate of really good reconciliation, so that's the bottom and bottom of it. At eleven o'clock in the night, we all experienced a provocative approach of the previous speaker and a different development on him as a result of the fact that a text of compromise has reached this point. It's visible, it could be, I mean, it's your approach, but... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish in a minute by collecting my words.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0256par0236	Guys, let's turn on Mr. Hatibin's microphone.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0237	Now, about ا, friends, let me tell you, this is a 40-year-old matter, and it is necessary to ask CHP's Secretary-General, Kasym Gülk. (AS/TK) So you have to look at the references behind the CHP. You guys, you can't spread the consequences of a 40-year-old matter to the AK PARTY, and you can't spread the errors of your strategic co-operation to the AK PARTY, the errors of the issues that constitute the source; this won't hold, this won't hold. So the AK PARTI is the one who wipes out the state, the AK PARTI, the one who eliminates the understanding of the AK PARTI, the one who fights all kinds of terror, the one who breaks the back of terror.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0257par0241	What terror, what terror?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0258par0242	What terror?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0254par0243	This reality cannot be veiled, the sun of truth shines, shows itself, says that our whole nation is aware of it, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0258par0245	What counterterrorism?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0259par0246	Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0260par0247	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0259par0248	Mr. Special, come in. Dear MPs, I can't hear Mr. Special.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0260par0250	Mr. President, of course we'd hoped that you'd end up with one more bullying, but he didn't, and since he didn't, I'd have to answer for these abuses according to the Civil Code 69.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0259par0251	Mr. Special, before you start a new taunt.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0260par0254	Mr. President, I will keep this as short as possible because the long answers to short promises stem from the weakness of the original weight of the answer. Let me make it very clear that, like any authoritarian regime, you have, like, complete control of your own network of broadcast organs that lie, insult, target, when you need to be in your place. You have a Pravda here that you believe, look, AK PARTI saved the laughing person. Look, if the Republic wrote this, don't believe it, it's your Akit. Look, Akit has seriously criticised our party, and perhaps the only righteous criticism he's ever done, says "Finish laughing," and the Republic doesn't say it, the Speaker doesn't say it, says it, says the editorial that you buy, you read, feed, feed, defame, defame, defame. I'll tell you one thing, if you're desperate enough to come out here and tell Mr. Gulk that Fetullah Gulen is 40 years old and attack the value of another Republican People's Party, we can only see one thing...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0261par0256	There's no assault, there's a fix, there's a fix, there's a real fix.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0260par0257	...we see only one thing, and we know that you have come to fight the 3 Y, which has just been expressed, corruption, bans and poverty. You're leaving, and the government that comes after you is going to fight this 3Y because it's doubled, but because of this attitude, it's going to fight a fourth, and it's going to be faceless. I'm sorry. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0262par0260	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0263par0261	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0262par0262	Mr. Akbasoglu, finish the discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0263par0264	Here's the thing: let's end the discussion. You say, "Well, I suggest they look in the mirror." I'm returning exactly what he said to himself.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0262par0266	Well, thank you, thank you. Dear MPs, on the night of July 15th, many of us were here. Mr. Ismail Kahraman has opened the House on this bench, Mr. Free Special has taken up the duty of clerkship right next to him. Then Mr. Oktay Vural was here on behalf of MHP. I was in the House with 20 of our friends. Friends of the AK PARTY, friends of the MHP, we've all been here in a struggle that we don't know the outcome of until morning. I spoke from the stand on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. We've cursed a coup attempt we don't know what it is. After me, as Mr. Bozdağ spoke, a bomb fell on those chandeliers you saw on the stand. Many members of the Turkish Grand National Assembly would have lost their lives that day. It was a fact. Another bomb went off. When we got to where we thought there was a bunker, we stayed until morning in a very warm atmosphere, where there was no water, where there was no food. Every one of our friends who tried to get out was shot from helicopters, and we all went through this disaster together. That day, we demonstrated great solidarity, how political parties against a coup were essential elements of democratic life at the cost of our lives. It was a meaningful day, and I wish it had stayed that way. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the 4th article is concluded. Since there is no question-and-answer on the matter, I'm passing the question-answer process. I submit the 4th article to your votes: those who do not accept... the 4th article is accepted. MADDE 5- The second sentence of Article 36 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Council has been changed as follows. The document referred to the commission can be distributed to the commissioners during work hours or during the work hours of the General Assembly, under pressure or using electronic communication channels by the chairman of the commission. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for a statement on behalf of groups on the 5th article. There's a request for a statement on behalf of the individuals. I'd like to invite Mr. Abdurrahman Tutdere, our Adıyaman MP, who has requested a word on behalf of him. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Here you go, Mr. Tutdere.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0264par0286	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Mr. President, I want to thank you for your particular understanding of democratic governance. Dear friends, our great House, which we are under the roof of, unfortunately, has never been able to make a modern, democratic, pluralist and civil constitution, a common demand for all parts, especially since the 80 revolutions, which I hope will allow us to make such a constitution in this period, and to make such a constitution. Of course, since there was no democratic, pluralistic and liberal constitution, we were unable to make a pluralistic democratic constitution that would be a basis for it. I wish today, even though we've put in so much overtime, we could discuss a more involved, pluralist, more democratic domestic charter in the General Assembly right now. It's about the domestic charter that we've put in so much time today, and I wish we were doing an internal charter where parliamentarians, you valued lawmakers, can express their problems, their feelings more freely, more freely. Unfortunately, however, today we have only made a technical amendment to the Civil Charter as part of adapting to the new Constitution, which is adopted only in the referendum and is now in effect. This, unfortunately, will not contribute to the creation of a pluralist and participatory Assembly. Unfortunately, in my opinion, this Civil Law and Parliament will not be able to fully fulfill its power in the face of execution. I wish we could do a civil code that would make the living more powerful in the face of Parliament. Dear friends, right now -- especially in the proposal that I have -- which is very strange to me -- is that the exact 15 days of legal time, given by the Ministry or by the administration, are protected by the written question motions, which is the mechanism that the law supervises the execution. But it's strange that none of the authorities have been brought into this. Since the day we arrived in Parliament, we've submitted written questions, like some of our fellow lawmakers, but in 15 days, I don't think we've come across any written question motions answered. Here, I wish, in this fifteen-day period of time, we could put one in charge of the unresponsive execution. At least that way, we'd be able to get the law to supervise the administration. Hopefully, we'll all do a more democratic Civil Code together in the next process. Dear friends, there have been serious changes in our judicial system, especially in the recent amendment to the referendum. The changing judicial system, of course, we are currently having serious problems with trust in the judiciary, especially in Turkey. Last week, we witnessed a judgment that we were all really amazed at. A constitutional lawyer has been arrested by the committee for speaking in a way the court does not like. Here is one of the best examples of the legal system created by the new Constitution. It's impossible to accept such a judgment, such a court of law. It is unacceptable for lawyers who serve as defenders in the state of the law to be given the grounds for the arrest of defences that the panel does not like. I hereby condemn this court of law. Lawyers are representatives of independent defense, essential to the state of law. Everybody needs the law. Rather, this practice resembles the practices of the judges in the past. The grounds of the trial are that the lawyer is only accused of suing the trial, disqualifying the trust in the judiciary. Since when did CMK change, arrest grounds change, and suing the judiciary and justice become grounds for arrest? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can you give me an extension?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0265par0293	Mr. Tutdere, of course, I promise you one minute.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0264par0294	Since when have lawyers' defenses been judged as diluted? It's not the defense of lawyers who dilute the judgment. Dear lawmakers, it's giving instructions to the courts, prosecutors, that dilute the trial. The judge who dilutes the courts is to pull strings on the D.A.'s exam, to finish the favor. It's the elimination of independent justice that dilutes the courts. So we don't accept this practice against lawyers who defend, who are the pillars of justice, the legal state, the constitutional right, and we call on the Ministry of Justice from here: we expect the necessary procedure to be done about those who do this practice that falls on our history of law as a black mark. I salute your high council. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0266par0298	Thank you, Mr. Tutdere. Dear lawmakers, the talks on Article 5 have been completed. There is no question-answer process. I submit the 5th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 6- The second sentence of Article 49 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey with its first, second, fifth and seventh joke has been changed as follows. The agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is: 1. Presentations of the presidency to the General Assembly. 2. It's private business. 3. Choice. 4. Things to vote on. 5. Reports of a parliamentary investigation. 6. General meeting and predicting a parliamentary investigation. Seven. Law proposals and other commissions. The proposal and approval of the General Assembly can be set aside for a certain day of the week for part 6 of the week. ▪ In cases of presidential need, the meeting order for jobs in section 7 can be offered to the General Assembly by the Council of Counsellors. The main commissions and the demands of lawmakers on this matter are also discussed by the Council of Counsellors. This issue is also declared on the electronic bulletin board. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, who would like to speak on the 6th Amendment? No. We don't have a friend in question-answering. I submit the sixth item to your votes: those who do not accept... those who do not... are accepted. MADDE 7- Article 51 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been changed as follows. The 51-MADDE is published on the list of papers with legal proposals for the presidency, official statements and commission reports, written questions, general talks, parliamentary research and parliamentary inquiry motions. Those referred to the General Assembly are also listed on this list. The date of their arrival to the presidency is also shown. If there are no holidays, it will be published every day on the official website of the Turkish National Assembly, except Saturday and Sunday, and will be added to the first joint report. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, request word on Article 7? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 7th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. MADDE 8- Article 59 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been changed as follows. The most three people can be promised off the agenda by the president's discretion, so that the extraordinary rush to announce to the Parliamentary General Assembly may not exceed five minutes. If the president, vice president and ministers seek a word out of the agenda in extreme haste, the president will grant it. After a statement by the president, vice presidents and ministers, political party groups have the right to speak once and for all, not over ten minutes. One of the lawmakers who does not have a group is promised not more than five minutes. Thank you. Congressmans, request to speak on Article 8? No. We don't have a friend who hacks into the system for questions and answers. I submit the 8th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 8 accepted. Dear lawmakers, I'm going to read Article 9: MADDE 9- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with Article 62 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. MADDE 62-The Vice President or a minister makes the budget presentation speech for the executive director. Vice Presidents and ministers may participate and make a statement on behalf of executives at the General Assembly hearings where budget and final bill proposals are discussed. Vice presidents, ministers, deputy ministers and senior public officials may attend General Assembly hearings to inform at the invitation of the Speaker of Parliament in Article 119 of the Constitution. The head of the Court or the head of his office, or member, can make a statement at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey if necessary. Dear lawmakers, there's a motion on the matter, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the change of Article 9 of Turkey's 9th amendment to the Constitution of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the following way. Muhammad Emin Akbasoglu Özgür Ayhan Bilgen MADDE 9- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with Article 62 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. MADDE 62-The Vice President or a minister makes the budget presentation speech for the executive director. Vice Presidents and ministers may participate and make a statement on behalf of executives at the General Assembly hearings where budget and final bill proposals are discussed. Vice presidents, ministers, or deputy ministers in mandatory situations, and senior public officials can attend General Assembly hearings to inform at the invitation of the Speaker of Parliament in Article 119 of the Constitution. The head of the Court or the head of his office, or member, can make a statement at the Grand National Assembly of Turkey if necessary. Do you agree with the motion to read the valuable commission?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0267par0355	We appreciate it with a positive opinion.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0266par0356	Okay. Anyone want to talk about the motion? No. We're reading the motive. In the current form of Article 62 of the ÜBMR Interior, the first-level head of the office is allowed to give public opinion in the General Assembly, but only in mandatory cases. The new arrangement also aims to preserve the rule of the old arrangement. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion that we have read: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: Those who don't... Article 9 is accepted. The fourth joke of the 70th article of the charter has been changed as follows. ▪ Vice presidents, ministers, ministers, and senior public officials can be held in closed sessions under the same clause as stated in Article 62. Dear lawmakers, request word on matter? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't... Article 10 has been accepted. Thank you. MADDE 11- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with Article 77 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ▪ State of law proposals in the event of re-election MADDE 77- Law proposals that have not been concluded during a legislative period are nullified. However, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey can renew these laws. Reports and texts from earlier times and texts from all discussions on the entire renewed law proposal can be adopted by the commission, if made clear. At the beginning of the legislative period, the written question given in the previous period, the parliamentary investigation, the general consultation motions and the laws sent back by the President are void. Decisions are not nullified in the legislation, which has not been concluded during a legislative period, and provisions are carried out concerning the proposals of the law. The decrees of the law lifted from the law cannot be removed without being submitted to the General Assembly in a report. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, request word on Article 11? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 11th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 11th article is accepted. MADDE 12- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with Article 81 of the Grand National Assembly's Article 81st. ▪ Discussing legal proposals in the General Assembly MADDE 81-Law proposals are discussed in the General Assembly according to the following procedure: A) Talks will be made about the entire proposal. B) Twenty minutes after the entire proposal is discussed, the commission will process questions and answers. It's ten minutes on matter. C) The transfer of the proposal to the clauses is voted. ) The terms of the proposal are discussed. d) The proposal is all voted out. Except for constitutional amendments, all of the proposals of the law are held by a clear vote of at least 20 MPs, if not by a clear vote, or by a sign vote of these ballots and clauses. Otherwise, if the Council of Counsellors has not agreed with the General Assembly on the proposal, the talks on the political party groups and on the commission of all law proposals are 20 minutes each, and the talks made by members are ten minutes later. The amount of time they talk about matter is half that. Proposals of the law, not all of which have been passed or all of which have not been accepted, have been rejected by the General Assembly. It can be decided that the President's release is partially inappropriate and that the laws sent back to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for further discussion can only be discussed by the General Assembly before the negotiations of the law begin. In this case, there is only talks about improper substances. If the whole law is decided to be discussed, the law is discussed according to the above jokes. It's always a vote for the entire law. A simple majority of members' integers are sought to ensure that the General Assembly accepts the entire or improper clauses of the law sent back for further discussion. The entire law, or the vote, is rejected in the absence of a single majority of members' integers. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, request word on Article 12? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 12th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 12 accepted. MADDE 13- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with the 90th Article of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. proposals for ratification of inter-national agreements MADDE 90- Under the Constitution, agreements based on the adoption of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under a law are submitted by the President on the general basis of the Turkish Parliament's presidency. The chairman of the Turkish Grand National Assembly publishes these agreements on the coming paper list and submits them to the information of the General Assembly. It can be proposed by law by lawmakers that it is appropriate to ratify agreements starting with the release of these agreements on the coming paper list. This proposal will be processed according to the procedure followed by other law proposals. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for a statement on behalf of groups on Article 13, there is a request for a statement on behalf of individuals. I'd like to call Mr. Aysu Bankoglu, our Bart's MP, who has requested a statement on behalf of the individuals, to the stand. Here you go, Mr. Bankoglu.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0268par0400	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, first and foremost the President of our Parliament and the founder of our republic, Grand Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, salute our General Assembly and ask that the new year of legislation give us significant contributions to our goal of reaching the level of murky civilizations. I have made a personal commitment to the 13th Amendment, which is the only uncompromising clause regarding the proposed Civil Code proposal. Before I pass on my views on the relevant clause, I will comment on the situation we are in today with the constitutional amendment adopted on April 16, 2017. At this point, I would like to question the AKP government and its allies in order to make a note of their faulty practices regarding the control function of law on the rule of separation of forces, and ask: Can we say that a constitutional amendment adopted under the terms of the State of Emergency is legitimate? Where does the removal of verbal question in this new order, which is clearly unsustainable, remain in the AKP government's case of strong legislation? On the contrary, the Parliament's control authority has been weakened and has not been followed by the joke of Article 21 (b) of the Constitution, which stipulates that the amendment should be carried out within six months of its release date. Isn't that a violation of the Constitution? Dear lawmakers, the culture of reconciliation, which we long longed for, was made in general during the work of the Commission, but there were also significant changes in the proposal, which was presented as a pure technical arrangement. Despite the earlier agreement, we do not find it sincere that such fundamental changes have been presented. I've also stated in the Commission that the proposal is not subject to the principle of dissolution of forces. As a matter of fact, I'd like to remind you again that trying to reduce too much noise in legislature activities will result in a grave consequence, as the House will derail itself. We see once again that the Constitution and the system it envisions are unsustainable in the 13th Article of the proposal regarding the adoption of international agreements. This issue, which has been ignored during the constitutional amendment process, has been tried to be resolved by giving the State Commission the authority to propose law, but is clearly contrary to Article 88 of the Constitution. The 88th article states that MPs are in charge of offering laws. So the commission will not be able to propose the law, and in this context, I would like to remind you again that the concepts of the (commission) are different from the concepts of the people. In addition to all of this, we do not accept that the death penalty in the existing Civil Code and the clause authorizing the Justice Commission to offer the law in general and in matters of special amnesty are considered a precedent, because we do not agree with this view because the bad precedent is not set as a precedent, precious friends. Our goal should be not to expand the breaches of the Constitution, but to eliminate the violations of the Constitution. The authority to propose law on international agreements has come to a better place through negotiation and reconciliation, but I would like to rephrase our opinion that this clause is a citizen of the General Assembly. I wish for a more inclusive arrangement to be carried out when hard work is done on the text of the Civil Code. And I'd like to repeat our call to the subject once again: let's set up an internal charter commission of equal number of representatives of political party groups and sign an exemplary agreement under this roof. I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0412	Thank you, Mr. Bankoglu. Dear lawmakers, there's a motion on the matter, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the first sentence of Article 90 of the Article 90 of the Interior Charter, which is envisioned to be replaced by Article 13 of the Constitutional Charter of Turkey's Council of Turkey, the statement is taken out of the text of the article. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Özgür Erkan Akçay Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0270par0422	We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0423	Anyone want to talk about the motion? No. It has been intended for international agreements to be announced to lawmakers, as well as to the General Assembly to be released on the list of papers issued by the Turkish Grand National Assembly, under the care of the economy of time and time, and it has been intended to reduce the bureaucracy of the law by giving information to the General Assembly. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion that has been read: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. Congressmans, in accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 13th article has been passed. MADDE 14- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with Article 92 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ▪ Law proposals containing general or private amnesty The adoption of the proposals, including the 92-General or special declaration of amnesty, is possible with the decision of three fifths of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's integer. The required majority is sought separately in the terms of the proposals related to forgiveness and in the voting of all of them. In the event of the adoption of the amendment motion, which contains the general or private amnesty declaration on the proposal, the motion to vote on this motion for the determination of three fifths of the necessary majority required for the adoption will be carried out by a clear vote. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, request word on matter? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 14th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 14th article is accepted. MADDE 15-The Sixth Section of the Turkish National Assembly's Office has been changed in the following way, with the title of Information and Control Ways, the title of Section 1 of Section, and Article 96, as well as the title of Article 96. MADDE 96- The written question is that lawmakers ask in writing questions to MPs, vice presidents and ministers to be answered in writing with a motion that does not include issues of personality or privacy, short, without justification or personal opinion. The written question motion is signed by only one MP and given to the presidency. The president publishes the motions he sees in accordance with the requirements of the Charter and sends them to the ministers with the relevant Vice President. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there's a motion on the 15th article, and I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly The following sentence is added to the second joke of Article 96 of the Civil Code, which is envisioned to replace Article 15 of the Constitutional Court's Charter with Article 15 of the 4th Amendment to the Constitution of Turkey's Grand National Assembly. The document cannot be added to the written question motions. Muhammad Emin Akbasoğlu Özgür Erkan Akçay Does the commission agree with the proposed motion?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0271par0454	We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0455	Anyone want to talk about the motion?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0272par0456	Motive...
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0457	We're reading the motive: It is intended to ensure the continuation of the Civil Code decree. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion that we have read: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who do not accept... the 15th article is accepted. MADDE 16-The title of Section 5 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's Sixth Section has been changed as follows, as follows in the form of the Interrogation of the Vice President and Ministers and the High Court's Order of the Supreme Court and Article 107. Parliamentary inquiry motions on vice presidents and ministers MADDE 107- Parliament may be asked to open a parliamentary investigation with a motion issued by the majority of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, claiming to have committed crimes against the vice presidents and ministers who have been in office or have been discharged. In this motion, it is imperative that the deputy presidents and ministers who have been asked to be investigated for their duties should be mentioned during their duties demanding criminal responsibility, which of their verbs is in violation of law and order, and which of the clauses should be stated in writing. These provisions apply to prime ministers and ministers who have served in the parliamentary government system. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is no request for a word on the matter. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 16th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 16th article is accepted. MADDE 17- Article 108 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Committee has been changed as follows. ▪MADDE 108-A parliamentary inquiry for the chairman of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey will be published on the list of papers submitted; an example of the motion will be sent to the Vice President, or minister, who is immediately asked to be investigated and read in the General Assembly. The day of talks on whether or not to open the parliamentary investigation is determined by the General Assembly on the proposal of the Council of Ministers in a special agenda, which will be discussed within a month of the release of the motion. On the day of this meeting, it is also reported to the vice president or minister who has been asked to be investigated. At the same time, it is decided by the secret vote of three-thirds of the member count of the parliamentary inquiry on whether to open the parliamentary investigation, after a meeting between the first signator or another signee, three MPs and the minister, who were asked to be present or not present at the time. These provisions apply to prime ministers and ministers who have served in the parliamentary government system. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, request word on Article 17? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 17th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 17th article is accepted. MADDE 18- Article 109 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Committee has been changed in the following way. The decision to open the parliamentary investigation will be carried out by a 15-person commission with a separate name for each political party, among the candidates the political parties in parliament will show as triple the number of members they can give to the commission by their powers. The commission chooses a president, a vice president, a spokesman and a clerk. Under the Criminal Court's Law, lawmakers in situations that would prevent judges from looking at the case or agreeing to the verdict cannot be elected to this commission. The same sentence is carried out for public officials to be appointed on the commission. Thank you. Congressmans, request for a statement on Article 18? No. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 18th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 18th article is accepted. I'm reading the 19th article. MADDE 19 - Under Article 114 of the Turkish Grand National Assembly's Charter, the following has been changed. ▪ President's criminal responsibility MADDE 114 - An investigation could be launched against the President, who has been in office or has been discharged, with a motion issued by a majority of members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's integers, claiming that he has committed a crime. The House will discuss the motion in one month at the latest, in any case. This motion is immediately submitted to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; it will be reported to the President who has been asked to be investigated, and it will be put on the agenda of the merger seven days later, starting with its presentation to the information of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. At the same time, it is decided by the secret vote of three-thirds of the member count on the opening of the parliamentary investigation, after a meeting by the president, who was asked to be held or not to be investigated, if the first signator or another signee will show the motion. In the event of an investigation, an investigation will be conducted by a 15-member commission, which will be held separately for each political party, among the candidates the political parties in parliament will consider three times the number of members they can give to the commission by the amount of their powers. The Commission shall use the authority of the Commission, which is envisioned in Article 111. The commission chooses a president, a vice president, a spokesman and a clerk. The investigative commission meets with the sole majority of its member integers and decides with the only majority of those attending the meeting. The commission's work is confidential. Lawmakers except their own members cannot attend this commission. The Commission will submit its report announcing the outcome of the investigation to the Parliamentary Presidency within two months. If the investigation is not completed during this time, the commission will be given a new and final month. The commission's application on this issue is submitted to the General Assembly's information. At the end of this period, the report must be handed over to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The report will be distributed within ten days of its appointment as President, and it will be discussed in the General Assembly within ten days of its distribution. In this meeting, the commission is promised six MPs on behalf of its members and the President who is asked to be put on duty or to be investigated at the time. The final statement belongs to the President who has been asked to be investigated and cannot be limited. The president can send his defenses in writing if he wants to. This defense is read in the General Assembly. After the talks are completed, the commission report is decided by a secret vote by the General Assembly. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey can move to the Supreme Court with a vote of at least two-thirds of the full number of members. The Commission's reports on the transfer to the Supreme Court and on the High Court's decision to move to the Supreme Court have been stated as to what sentence is the basis. The commission's reports to not transfer to the Supreme Court have been rejected, but it is possible with the acceptance of a motion to the Supreme Court, which shows which sentence the transfer decision will be based on. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no request for a statement on Article 19. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 19th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 19th article is accepted. MADDE 20- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with the 118th Article of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ▪ Dispersal of Commission General Assembly decisions MADDE 118-The Commission's Court of Presidents suppresses decisions made by the Commission's General Assembly, distributes them to all MPs and sends them to the Vice President and ministers for the purpose. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no request for a statement on Article 20. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 20th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 20th article is accepted. MADDE 21-The title of Section 8 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey has been changed in the form of the Supreme Hal Management, and Article 126, as follows. ▪ Decisions on the state of emergency MADDE 126- The decision on the state of emergency declared by the President under Article 119 of the Constitution and published in the official newspaper is submitted to the approval of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. If Turkey is on holiday, the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is called to a meeting immediately; Parliament can shorten, extend, or remove the state of emergency if necessary. A motion can be made during the meeting with political party groups or at least 20 MPs' signatures on shortening or extending the foreseeable deadline. Before the vote, the motion holder may take a stand not for more than five minutes. At the request of the president, the Turkish Grand National Assembly can extend the deadline for four months at a time. In cases of war, that is not a four-month period. The President's statements on the extension of the state of emergency approved by Turkey's Parliament, or the removal of the state of emergency, are also discussed and agreed on according to the procedure in this article. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for word on Article 21. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 21st article is accepted. MADDE 22- Turkey has been changed in the following way, along with the 128th Article of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. ▪ Discussing the presidential decrees issued in extraordinary circumstances MADDE 128- In extraordinary cases announced under Article 119 of the Constitution, the presidential decrees submitted to Parliament on the day they were issued in the official newspaper shall be first discussed in Turkey's Grand National Assembly within three months, excluding the failure of the Turkish Grand National Assembly for war and reason. If these decrees are not discussed within a month in the commissions, the Parliamentary presidency will directly be put on the General Assembly agenda. The General Assembly will decide on these decrees within the remaining two months. The presidential decrees, which could not be discussed and decided within three months, will automatically be lifted. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no request for a statement on Article 22. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. MADDE 23- Article 142 of Turkey's Grand National Assembly Committee has been changed in the following way. OODDE 142- Central management budget proposals, additional proposals for amendments to these laws, additional grants for public administrations under the central administration, law proposals for amendments related to these laws, proposals for amendments between these laws, law proposals for the transfer between the chapters and the amendment of the Turkish Parliament budget, and the legal proposals for temporary spending and collection of revenues, all of them are ordered to be issued, to be removed, or reduced, or increased, all of them; central management and the adoption of law proposals for the adoption of the law on the adoption of the law and the adoption of its legislation; all of them are ordered to be carried out and carried out by the law on the basis of these laws and the implementation of the legislation; and all of these are ordered to be carried out and carried out in accordance with its. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there is no request for a word on the matter. There's a motion on matter, I'm reading the motion: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly I propose and propose that Article 23 of the Commons Proposal, in the following way, be changed in the following way. Mehmet Naci Bostancı Erkan Akçay Garo Paylan Free Special Yavuz Zekioğlu Süzeyya Sadi Bilgiç "MADE 142- Central management budget proposals, amendments to the central management budget law, additional grants to public administrations under the central administration's budgets, the whole of the law proposals for law proposals and the participation of temporary budget law proposals; the proposals for setting up taxes, pictures and tuitions; all of the legislation proposals for reducing, reducing or increasing the law proposals for central management; ratification of inter-national agreements; the adoption of these agreements or participation in the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements; all of the proposals for the adoption of the law and the adoption of the legislation are ordered to be carried out, all of its long-term development, and all of its non-contentration proposals are ordered by the internal law. Thank you. Does the commission agree with the motion?
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0273par0556	We commend you with a positive opinion, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0557	No one wants to talk about the motion. A change has been made in the budget system, with the implementation of Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, dated 10/12/2003. In accordance with Law No. 5018, harmony arrangements have been made at a termical level, intended to provide clarity and simplicity of narrative. In this regard, "excessive allowances and "transference between departments have been removed. The Law No. 5018 does not include the expression "excessive allowance" and is not foreseen by law to transfer between sections. In addition, a law proposal for the amendment of the Turkish Parliament's budget budget, which includes the amendment of the Turkish Parliament budget, as well as a law proposal for a amendment to the central management budget law, as well as a proposal for "the amendment of the law proposals for the Turkish Parliament's budget is intended not to be entered into a subsidiary by the removal of its tender from the material text. Similarly, the use of the temporary budget, which means the same instead of the law offering, which authorises temporary spending and collection of revenues in terms of law language, has been envisioned. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I submit to your votes the motion that we read: those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is accepted. In accordance with the motion adopted, I submit to your votes the 23rd article: those who accept... those who refuse... the 23rd article has been passed. MADDE 24- The declaration of search is added after the article 183 of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey's 183th Article and its first joke. Thank you. Members of parliament, there is no request for a statement on Article 24/7. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the 24th article is accepted. Congressmans, I'm going to read the 25th article: MADDE 25- Turkey's Grand National Assembly Association; A) 39, 40, 73, 78, 98, 106, 121, 123, 123, 124, 125 and 127th Articles of Articles of Section Six, the second joke of Article 7 and the second joke of Article 7 in the third article of Article 19; a government representative in the third article of the article of Article 19; and the Council of Ministers (also referred to in the fourth document of Article 21) 123, 124, 124, 125, 125 and 127; a second joke in the first and third article of Article of Article 34; a second one in the first article, or second in the first article of the article of the article of the article, or the first one in the first article, or the first one in the first article of the article of the article of the article of the article, or the first one in the article of the article of the article of the article of the article of the article, and the first place of the first article of the article of the article of the article of the code of the code of the code of the article of the code of the article, or the first article of the article of the code of the article of the article of the article of the article of the article, or the first article of the first article of the first article of the article of the article of the article of the code of the code of the code of the article of code of code of code of the article of the article, or the first, the first, the first, the first or the first article of the code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of the first, or the first, or the first, or the article of the article of the article of the article of the article of the article of the article of the code of the second, or the code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of code of the first or the first or of the first or the first or the first or the first or the second, the second, the first or the second, the first or the first or the first or the B) In the first sentence of Article 2 of Article 2, the first sentence of Article 1 of Article 1, the expression "five hundred" has been changed in the form "six hundred." C) The second joke of Article 17 was removed from the guard battalion and the text of the clause. In the first joke of Article 23, the draft was changed in the form of the Presidential decree issued on the state of emergency or of the state of the state of emergency. In the third joke of Article 26, the statement is published on the institutional website and on the electronic bulletin board on the same day. E) In the second joke of Article 29, the government's representative has been replaced in the form of vice presidents, ministers, deputy ministers, and senior public executives, if he joins the commission. F) The government's declaration of Article 30 of Article 30 was replaced in the form of the deputy ministers, ministers, minister's assistants and senior public administrators, the second sentence of the first joke was removed from the scope of the article. In the first joke of Article 32 of Article 32, it has been changed from the text of the relevant minister or above-level public executives to the vice presidents, the ministers and the commissioners, to the deputy ministers and the deputy ministers. đ) The second joke of Article 35 was removed from the text of the clause, except for the special situation in Article ▪92. In the first joke of Article 37 of Article 37, the terms of the provisions of the law or the terms of the terms of the terms of the ordinances in accordance with the proposals, were taken out of the first sentence of the second sentence, and the third clause of the provision of the draft, proposal and law was removed from the text of the clause, which is included in the sentence, or in the second sentence of the sentence. In the eighth joke of Article 60, the commission and the government have been changed in the form of the commission and commission. The first joke of Article 75 has been changed in the following way, from the text of the article, which appears in its second joke, or in its third joke, or in its third. The proposed law can take back its offer on condition that the General Assembly be informed before it is taken into consideration. "J" is the first joke of the article, "or "The Government" (or "The Government") in its ninth joke, "and "The Government" (J) was removed from the text of matter; the second sentence of the ninth joke has been changed in the following way. ▪ The commission may briefly explain its reasons for not participating. The second sentence of the second joke has been changed in the following way and the third sentence has been removed. If all proposals have been asked back, all proposals on the proposal are submitted to the main commission if a specific or several articles of the proposal are requested. In the first paragraph of Article I (a) of Article 91 (a) the statement of the government was removed from the text of the substance, which included in the second paragraph of the same joke, the original commission or the government's statement was changed in the form of the original commission, and the principal commission. The following sentence is added to the first joke of Article 95. The Grand National Assembly of Turkey can decide to renew the elections by voting for three fifths of its integer. In the first joke of Article 99, the Prime Minister's declaration was changed as a vice president; his third, fourth and fifth jokes have been removed from effect; his second joke has been modified as follows, and the following joke has been added to the article. The written questions will be answered in fifteen days at the latest from the date sent by the Vice President or the minister. In holidays and research, the transfer process of written questions begins after fifteen days of vacation and search. If the written questions are not answered during the period of the period of the written question, it will be declared on the list of papers that have not been answered during the period of the written question motion, and it will be sent to the vice president or ministers. O) In the 100th article of the 100th article, the sentence was removed from the text of verbal or idiosyncrasy, and the second and third jokes were removed from effect and added to the first joke. These questions are answered by the president or one of his presidential guardians. ==References=======Early life========Early life=======Early life======Early life======Early life=======Early life=======Early life==========Early life========References========External links=== The first joke of Article 104 has been changed as follows. The study of the Parliament is a study of a specific subject. The third joke of Article 110 has been changed as follows. ▪ The investigative commission will submit its report as a result of the investigation to the Parliamentary Presidency within two months. If the investigation is not completed in this time, the commission will be given a month's notice. The commission's application on this issue is submitted to the General Assembly's information. At the end of this period, the report must be handed over to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the first joke of Article 111, the statement of the Council of Ministers has been changed to the members of the Council of Ministers, the members of the Council of Ministers, the vice president and ministers of the President and ministers of the Minister's Office (Prevention of the Minister) or Minister's Office in the second statement. In the first and second jokes of Article 112, the terms of the prime minister or minister have been changed into two-thirds of the terms in the form of the vice president or minister, and in its sixth joke. The third joke of Article 116 has been changed as follows. The Commission's Presidential Court sends an example of the petitions it has decided it cannot discuss, the social benefits of its regulation as a law, to the chairmanship of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and to the presidency for information. U) The third joke of Article 119 has been changed in the form of οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf οf vice presidents and ministries. The first joke of Article 120 was added to the article "The Minister" before the declaration of "The President" and the second joke was removed. V) The title of the 8th Section has been changed in the form of the President's Andicme Ceremony, the State of Emergency Management, and the Decisions on Armed Forces. The selection and declaration of Part 1 were removed from the text. In the first jokes of 129th and 130th Articles, the statement of the Council of Ministers (y) has been changed in the form of the president. The first joke of Article 131 was added to the statement of the vice presidents and ministers for crimes not related to their duties after the declaration of an MP. Aa) The first joke of Article 132 was added to the statement of the vice president or minister to follow the third joke after the declaration of the deputy president or the minister, among the members of the political party's preparation commission to come before the declaration. In the second joke of Article 133, the ministry has been changed into the vice-presidentship or ministry. ==Early life==The first and second statements of Article 134 of Article 134 have been added after the declaration of the MP, Vice President or Minister. The following joke is added to Article 135. Membership of MPs appointed as vice president or minister ceases. In the 8th joke of Article 155, the official newspaper has been changed in the form of "Tutanak" magazine. In the sixth joke of Article 163, members of the Council of Ministers have been changed in the form of vice presidents or ministers. ff) In the second joke of Article 164, the guard battalion and the security force have been changed into the force assigned for security. The first joke of Article 166 was to be replaced by members of the government's civil servants and servants, the government's official for the work, who served in the Executive Service of the National Assembly of Turkey and worked on the commission and the General Assembly's work, who were appointed by the institutions to contribute to the work of the Vice President, the minister and the legislature. In the first joke of Article 169, the statement was added in accordance with the testimony of the General Assembly, which was included in the first article of Article 169, after the declaration. hh) In the first joke of Article 170, it has been changed from the MPs and members of the Council of Ministers to the MPs and vice presidents and ministers. The inscription of Article 173 and its text were changed from the library to the archive. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for word on Article 25. There's no QA, but our Commission has a request for a copy. Here you go, Mr. Commission.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0274par0623	Mr. President, we demand that the government's representative (e) declaration of the proposal be corrected in the form of the government's representative in the commission, which is based on the 25th article (e). Again, our second demand for correction (f) is to be corrected in the form of the government's declaration and the declaration of execution.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0625	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0275par0626	There is no government.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0276par0627	Instead of a declaration of government, there must be a movement everywhere.
tbmm-2018-10-09sit04spe0269par0628	I know, I've looked into it, so I've looked into it. Your request for editing is on the record. If the proposed proposal is accepted, the process of redacting will be carried out by our president. Dear lawmakers, with the Commission's request for a reduction, I submit the 25th article to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 25 is accepted. MADDE 26- This goes into effect in the date of the release of the Charter provisions. Thank you. Congressmans, there is no request for a statement on the 26th article. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... The 26th article is accepted. MADDE 27 - The Grand National Assembly of Turkey conducts these provisions. Thank you. Dear lawmakers, there is no demand for word on Article 27. There's no question-answering process. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Article 27 is accepted. In this way, the discussion of the articles of the Civil Code proposal is complete. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in accordance with the terms that are now accepted, I submit the full offer to your votes: Those who don't agree... The deal for the Civil Code is accepted, and good luck. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, with the work we've done today, our agenda is complete. Under the decision taken, it is Wednesday (October 10th 2018) that we discuss the bill and proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively, at 2:00 p.m. on Wednesday (October 10th). I'm closing the meeting at 00, thank you all separately.
