tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Congressmans, according to our agenda, we will continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Computation Act. Under the schedule, we'll be negotiating in the sixth round today. The Ministry of Interior, Security General Directorate, Police Headquarters, Police General Command, Coastal Security Command, Migration Administration General Directorate, Afet and Emergency Management Presidency, Public Order and Security Ministry, Ministry of Labour and Social Services, Ministry of Labour and Social Security, Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Occupational Facility, Ministry of State Staff, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Health of Health, Turkey General Directorate of Border and Coasts, Turkish Medicine and Medical Cihaz Foundation, Turkish Health Institutes Presidency, Turkish Public Hospitals and Turkish Public Health Institutes Agency. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Commission? He's in position. In accordance with the decision made, the talks on the tour will be promised to conduct to the political party groups and to express their opinion in accordance with Article 62 of the Interior Charter, which can be used by more than one speaker and will take five minutes each. Also, when the talks are completed, the question-answer process will be done in ten minutes for questions, ten minutes for answers, and questions will be asked without justification. It's for your information. In the sixth round, I read the names of political party groups, executive and individuals, respectively: İstanbul MP Mustafa Demir, Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Yel, Antalya MP Kemal Çelik, Giresun MP Kadir Aydın, İstanbul MP Serap Yaşar, Hatay MP Hüseyin Şanverdi, Çanakkale MP Jülide Skenderoğlu, Koneli MP Sami Çakır, Ankara MP Asuman Erdoğan, Konya MP Halil Etımaz, Ankara MP Arife Polet Meş, Karaman MP Recep Şeker, Nevşehir MP Mustafa Açeker, Niğde MP Selim Gültekin. On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimoğlu Oruç, Muş MP Mensur Iş, İstanbul MP Zeynel Özen, İzmir MP Serpil Kemalbay Pekkeğü, Ağrı MP Diriyet Dilan Taşdemir, İstanbul MP Züleyha Gülm, Diyarbakır MP Adnan Selçuk Mızraklı, Diyarbakır MP Semra Güzlı, İğdir MP Habip Öz. On behalf of Cumhuriyet People's Party Group, Muğla MP Süleyman Girgin, Bilecik MP Yaşar Tuğunç, Kahrammarash MP Ali Öztunç, Nevşehir Millekilli Faruk Sarıaslan, Balıkesir MP Ensar Aytekin, Gaziantep MP Irfan Kaplan, İzmir MP Kani Beko, Samsun MP Neslihan Hancıoğlu, Tekirdağ MP Candan Yüçer, Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş, Adana MP Burhanettin Taşcıer, Ankara MP Ali Taşcıer, İstanbul MP Ali Taşcıer. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Gaziantep MP Sermet Atay, Düzce MP Umit Yilmaz, Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak, Kahramanmarash MP Sefer Aycan, İstanbul MP Arzut Erdem, Ankara MP Nevin Taşlıçay, Adana MP Ayşe Sibel Ersoy, Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan, İstanbul MP Hayati Ark. On behalf of the group, Mersin MP Behic Çelik, İstanbul MP Umit Özdağ, Isparta MP Aylin Efendi, Adana MP İsmail Konçuk, Antalya MP Tuba Ökalal, Eskişehir MP Arslan Kabukcuoğlu. On behalf of individuals, Aksaray MP Cengiz Aydoğdu. In the name of the executive, Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu, Minister of Family, Labor and Social Services Zehra Emerald Selçuk, Minister of Health Fahrettin Husband. As individuals, against Ankara MP Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir. Later, the question-answer process. I'm asking our friends to observe the deadline, and maybe I can make a very short promise to complete, that I have to respect the right of our friend and the law of those who listen here. Dear friends, now, on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the first statement is in İstanbul MP Mustafa Demir. Here you go, Mr. Iron. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0002par0076	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of our Ministry of Interior for 2019. I hereby salute our coven and our holy nation. As our ministry performs its duties, it follows a policy based on the principles of transparency and accountability, which is one of the leading principles of modern public administration. Our ministry serves our citizens with an understanding of the principles of modern governance, using powerful organization structure and the most effective and economic resources available to them, using technology in everything from security to population services, from civil society to local governments. Dear lawmakers, our Ministry is working to minimize bureaucracy and time loss, based on efficiency and satisfaction in state-state relations. In carrying out tasks and services, the public also pays maximum attention to the effective and efficient use of its source. In addition to all these studies, it is a successful and proactive struggle with mass migration worldwide, which continues to deal with the problems of geography in our region and the new and difficult situation of our region, as well as with terrorism. The first priority of the United States is to ensure public services, public order and security. Terror is the biggest obstacle to freedom and development. The planned terrorist games in our region are aimed at changing borders by fueling ethnic and religious dissolution. Our unity of faith and our thousand-year brotherhood will not allow these plans, these games. Our goal is to eliminate terror with all its aspects and consequences. We've been working day and night for 16 years to eliminate the differences of development and social development between our regions without compromising the safety of the security-freedom balance. We're erasing the abuse fields of terrorism. We're taking the peace and prosperity of the nation even higher. In every part of our country, we rule the real democracy with the nation behind it. We are delighted to see that our ministry is getting closer and closer to the policies it has set with its vision of Turkey, confident of its day and future. Dear lawmakers, another important problem in our country is, unfortunately, a drug problem. Our ministry struggles with determination with these bad habits that disturb the peace of our young and their families, the health and mental health of our young ones. The Interior Ministry has made this a policy within its anti-drug policy. The implementation of this policy has conducted studies on the supply and prevention of drug use, and a large amount of drugs have been seized by operations conducted in 2019. In addition to preventing the supply, work continues to be continued to inform the society of drug damage and especially young people, and these studies are supported by projects. It is our duty and responsibility to fight this disease against our nation, our nation's future, our youth. It is impossible to ignore the success of our Homeland Ministry in the fight against terrorism and drugs. With the development of our defence industry, which has become a national policy under the leadership of our presidency, our forces entering the den of terror with national and domestic weapons have also achieved great success in fighting drugs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0003par0086	Mr. Iron, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0002par0087	At first, we celebrate all of our security forces with our Minister. Dear lawmakers, the treasonous attack on democracy and national will on the night of July 15th is a major attack on the rights and freedoms of the country. This is an attempt to invade and divide the land of the Fatherland. This attack was led by our President, our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation, and he will never give us a chance again. In the process, we thank all our martyrs who gave their lives for the flag and for their country, and thank all our veterans. I want to thank all members of our Ministry for allowing our citizens to lead a peaceful and secure life in a modern society, and I wish that the 2019 budget would be a blessing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0004par0093	The second line belongs to Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Yel. Here you go, Mr. Yel.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0005par0096	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our beloved nation watching us on the screen, I salute you with respect and love. My dear President and dear congressman friends, first and foremost, we thank all our martyrs who have fallen to the ground for this land, which has allowed us to speak here, here, in peace, in such a comfortable environment. We also convey our gratitude to all of our veterans. I say God bless them. Yes, dear friends, as Ibn Haldun said, geography is destiny. It's just a word for Turkey. Indeed, when we look at it, our Anatolian geography, our Thracian geography, is a part of the land that we live in as the 25th civilization, where the most civilisations have lived since mankind came to earth. A total of 10 civilizations lived after us in Mesopotamia. This fertile land, where mankind is always on the lookout, is also the cause of the games that have been played on Turkey. Our beloved nation, against the 26th civilization that wants to come after us, has always put forth its will, its presence, its will to claim this land, and it has given us this very piece of land that we can truly inherit for our future generations, and when we look at it, these pieces of land have not been easily earned. It does not fall from the language of history, / The rivers are the veterans, and the mountains are the heroes, and this country, which is the ruby of every stone, and the people who have reached the secret of death, as we say. On the night of July 15th, we will continue to be the mighty keepers of this land, as the Omar Halisdemirs were in all previous wars, to be left to our future generations. Again, as stated in our March of Istiklal, I have a serhaddim, like my faithful breast, if it envelops the wall of steel. / Nation, fear not! How could he drown such faith, /, the only female monster you call civilization. As in the words of the one-female beast today, unfortunately, some local collaborators, we put our backs to the PYD, and we put our backs to this one, and he walked away from his own existence. But once again, we're telling them that in a few months, there'll be no PYD or PKK left to hold your back. (EC PARTY) We, in a sense of determination and determination, will continue to walk in our way as a country that not only 81 million oppressed nations have looked at, seen and hoped for, and a leader of the oppressed nations of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. So I say it's time to decide whether you are Hans' brother or George's brother or Hassan's brother or Mehmet's brother who wants to separate us. And after we make this decision, we will all, as 81 million, carry on with this holy nation. Here I am, thanking all his colleagues in your presence, especially Mr. Süleyman Soylu, our Minister of the Interior, whose budget has been discussed and ours has been really trusted and continues to do extremely successful work. As a member of the Ministry of Interior, I have served in many parts of our country so far. In 2004, 2005, I served in Şırnak, which had all the traces of that ancient civilization. I've seen the struggle of the noble nation in Şırnak against PKK people who are trying to really infiltrate the noble people, who are trying to infiltrate them like cancer cells, and I promised them that I would be your representative from now on. And now I'm going to be an honorary Şırnakan. As your brother from Tekirdağ, we have come together like flesh and nails, and no one will be able to divide us, and no one will ever be able to bring us into our brotherhood again.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0006par0102	We'll see about your mission on March 31st!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0005par0103	And by keeping that promise, I hope from now on, we will continue to walk with them as Western brothers to defend the rights and laws of all our brothers in Şırnak and in the east, our Kurdish brothers. Our path is right, our path is the path of the great Turkish nation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ... and we will all continue our journey under the leadership of Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, hopefully, brings our night into the day so that we can all go to the bright tomorrows. I salute you all with love and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0007par0109	In turn, Antalya MP Kemal Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0008par0112	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Security Directorate of 2019. I salute our High Council and our beloved nation. On the night of July 15th, I ask God's mercy to those who have been shot and killed by traitors, to all our heroes who were martyred by the PKK and the DEASH, and to Altug Verdi, who we have recently lost, to our nation and its relatives. As in health and education, spending as a principle in security services can never be seen as enough. We can all have different approaches to the security of our country, different methods. But if we are united in the ideal of the best Turkey, then we all want a safer and more peaceful Turkey. In that sense, we must never forget the effect of the love of the homeland that exists in the spirit of our police force. Dear MPs, individual freedom, of course, is very important, and that freedom can only be lived on the basis of the country's freedom. In a country open to terrorism, coups and foreign intervention, neither the state nor the individual are free. On July 15th, the free state and free individual relationship met with the common free will of every citizen and law enforcement agency, especially our President, against the coup and occupation attempt. On July 15th, this unity is as much a union of minds as it is a union of love. History has shown us that this unit is invincible. Now, our state and every one of us are independent and free, but those who cannot distance themselves from terrorism will never be free. Since July 15th, our liberated police force continues to write epics both domestically and abroad. Congressmans, with steps taken by the EC PARTY governments in the security industry and technology, our police have reached the prerequisite law enforcement level, which has been taken from the preventive arm. Turkey, again, has risen from event-based operation to uninterrupted operation and with its drying strategy at the source of terrorism, to a stronger, more dynamic country in security issues, and has achieved epic achievements. With national and domestic weapons, our security forces enter the terrorist's lair with drones, drones, and helicopters are making great successes. Turkish police have taught terrorists the necessary lessons, which are well aware of who dug the moats, who dug against whom, and what city vehicles and staff, and for what purpose they dug them, in our districts and throughout the region. We really owe it to our people in the region who understand our struggle, who are liberated, who fully support our police and our entire security department. We also owe a debt of gratitude to our mayors, who built our cities by shutting down digs and pits, by spending people's taxes on the nation, and making life easier in that region. Members of parliament, the DEAS and PKK/PYD terrorist organizations, who received orders from the same top mind, were unable to perform social and strategic actions in our country after July 15th. Police, Special Ops troops have made significant contributions to eliminating the PKK/PYD threat in Afrin, as well as to the end of Operation Firat Shield and DEAŞ. Especially Afrin, drug workshops and terrorist shelters in the region have been torn apart and the residents have been restored to peace and freedom. In the coming days, as in the west of Fırat, PKK/PYD and DEAŞ elements will be wiped out in the east, and threats against our country will be eliminated at our borders and in the region. Therefore, I congratulate all our security forces in the sight of our Minister. Dear lawmakers, let's believe in our police force and trust it. Let us know that we have a self-improvement and renewed security organization in accordance with the needs of the age, the laws of law. The progress of our police in recent years is above European standards. For example, allegations of police abuse have dropped 90 per cent for today.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0009par0123	They killed Uður Kurt in front of his camisole! Bet... the killer's still on the loose.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0010par0124	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0008par0125	In addition, there have been serious decreases in judicial investigations regarding torture and abuse of police and police personnel. In drug operations, our police are extremely successful and contribute to world youth. With his heroism in the fight against terrorism, our police, not only pose an important stance against our security base, but also against world security threats, today, as it did yesterday, with a firm, conscientious and successful stand with the righteous. Dear lawmakers, we have little to do with the rights of our police department, and hopefully, the AK PARTI authorities will continue to improve our police department after this. I know that what is done in our security agencies will return to our country and to our nation's peace and security, and I salute the High Council with love and respect. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0011par0129	Giresun MP Kadir Aydın is next in line. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0132	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budgets of the Coast Guard Command and General Command under the Ministry of Interior. First of all, I salute your great delegation and our nation. I remember all our martyrs with mercy and gratitude, our heroic veterans, especially those who served in the General Command and Coast Guard Command where we discussed the budget with Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, who led our country to this day, free and independent of our nation, with their lives and blood. In 93 per cent of our country's territory, the Coast Guard Command has devoted its control and surveillance activities throughout all our land's land-sized blue country, about half the size of our country. Our security forces, with the world's strongest and highest combat capabilities, have always been mobilized by all the resources of our state. However, we had to buy almost all of the tools, equipment, and ammunition that our army, whose heart was native, from other countries, and we worked very hard to make them local and national. In a nutshell, we've reached an incredible investment from ATAK helicopters to Altay tanks, armed drones, armed drones, missile systems of all kinds, from warships to domestic and national radar systems, and a force that gives friends confidence, fear and anxiety to the enemy. Yesterday, July 15th and so forth, those who tried to destroy our state, bring our nation to its knees and test our strength, know that they could never defeat our nation, which they failed to conquer in poverty yesterday. Where is our power, and against whomsoever it may be, and whosoever it may be, it is sufficient that we should call out to them wrong-doing? For that reason, even under the roof of the United Nations, the world is greater than five. That's why we call him "Afrin" when we couldn't even say "Diyarbakir" yesterday, and we call him "Afrin" and we call him "Munbic" and we call him "Munbic." [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] 16 years of AK PARTI ruling has led to a civil revolution, not only in domestic and national production, but in connection with the Ministry of Interior, all of the Carabinieri and Coast Guard units. Mr. President, dear MPs, of course, I know we're all on this roof representing our nation, and we're expressing our opinions, suggestions, and complaints from this bench, which is owned by the nation. In a speech from each of our MPs and each of the political party groups has received power from the nation, the statements regarding our President-elect Recep Tayyip Erdogan, by taking more than any party's votes, are neither adjectives nor statements that suit our MPs. It is not for any man to speak ill of any man's importance or value, nor is it for him to speak ill of ours. The understanding, which sees power as a form of politics, will not do any good to our nation or its owners. Even though you don't like President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who's been in power for 16 years, who's come out of his 13 elections victorious and with growing public support, you will know that our President, 26 million 330, 823 voters, voted and received more than half of our nation's support because democracy is the regime of those who know to participate and endure.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0013par0140	It's a shame you called the president of a party!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0141	Those who call every accident we've had as a murder, those who consider every arrest as a war language, those who give applause to the recipients, let them know that this is not the right language and that this is not the right language.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0013par0142	Is threatening party partners the right language? Is calling the president of a party the right language? Criticize them, and we'll criticize them together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0014par0143	Easy, easy.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0144	I also believe with deep confidence that the work of our security forces who interfered in sharing terror and social events from the public's bench should correct the language of those who expressed the fight against terrorism as a fight against terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0013par0146	Have your Home Secretary correct his language first.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0147	When you're up on the mountain, there's no point in people playing betrayal, singing peace songs from the council bench, and there's no point in it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0015par0149	Peace is meaningless to you, it's true.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0016par0150	You want an extension?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0151	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0016par0152	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0012par0154	This attitude is of no value to our House and to our nation. Although some parties are made to manage politics, parties and delegates, the whole world knows that politics in the EC PARTY, especially our nation, is made to govern and serve the nation. Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, our political views, our view of life and events, and our beliefs may differ, but that would never be the reason for delaying our homework and debt to our nation. We have seen many times who wrote the lie, and who slandered it, but who believed in the lie he had written, and the slander he had fabricated. THE secret of AK PARTY's 16 years of stumbling and not falling is in two sentences: looking forward and working hard. Rest assured, the longer you run, the faster we'll be. Thus, even if you are not in power, you will have your contribution and your efforts to further our nation's service. In this relentless struggle against seven heifers as a nation and as a state, without any price or expectation... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0159	I'm not giving it back, I'm giving it to you once, just for a minute. Your time is up.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0018par0160	It'll be fine, Mr. President. Give it to me again. What's going to happen? Give it to me, Mayor, we're Democrats.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0161	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0018par0162	The other presidents do, why don't you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0163	You'll try it on their time, Tanal.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0019par0164	He's already reading a story, so he'll be fine.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0018par0165	I mean, what are you gonna lose? We're sitting, we're waiting, we want to know. We have the right to learn, the right to learn from the preacher, so we're listening.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0166	You'll listen outside and he'll tell you more.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0018par0167	E, okay? He listens to the public. This is a constitutional right, Article 74.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0168	I can't quite understand what you're saying, and it doesn't really matter.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0020par0169	I want to express my gratitude to our nation's emotions and opinions about the fight against terrorism, and to the terrorist groups who have explained it in a language that they can understand, especially to our President, our Home Secretary, Mr. Süleyman Noble, on behalf of all of our law enforcement forces who have given their lives in this regard. With these thoughts and feelings, may our budget be good, may God be our lord and helper, I salute your high council and our coven.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0017par0172	Now it's time for Istanbul MP Serap Yaşar. Here you go, Mr. Yasar.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0021par0175	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of the General Directorate of Migration Management of the Management Budget Proposal of 2019. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. On September 2, 2015, a news story fell to all news agencies, news that 12 people were drowned in water on a boat that escaped from the war and sailed from Turkey to Greece, and the body of a baby washed up on the shore in those who died. The story I'm talking about is the news of the Aylan Kurdi, which we all know is not erased from our memories and from our conscience. Until that day, the world seemed to have grown accustomed to the news that had been added every day since the beginning of the Syrian war, as if deaf and dumb, three monkeys were being played, even though there was a great drama going on. On that day, the spear did not fit in the sack, the tiny Syrian refugee who washed ashore shook the world's agenda. When I saw that photo, I praised it once again because I was a member of my own country, and I said, "It's a good thing I am a son of this holy nation." As in the past, since we have taken a stand against the oppressor today, I have praised that we are not partners in shame. The concept of oppression also means "darkness." The times of persecution are often dark. So again, for me, we're going through dark times for mankind, especially for immigrants, for reasons that trigger migration. Governments, like individuals, take their own tests against these events. Our country has signed something that will be written in human history, not only in silence but in an active manner in the face of persecution against immigrants. We believe that justice will maintain the order of the world. In this time when the whole world is being tested for mankind, we, our state, our nation, have the right pride of doing the best we can with our institutions -- thank God -- and thank God, we do not give this nation the shame of persecution. In Greece, the sinking of immigrant boats, the beating of those holding onto the boat's fingers and dropping them into the sea, the frozen bodies of immigrants stripped naked at the border have just fallen to agencies. And I actually want to show you pictures of these because these are new pictures. We have fulfilled our historical and religious responsibility, both at the cost of political and economic. Before the world caught the attention of the body of Aylan baby, we welcomed the people who fled from death with the open-door policy that we followed in the process. Our Migration Administration's General Directorate has faced this burden by taking on far more responsibility than a general directorate can do, including the heart and heart of all its employees. Our country has set a good example for the world with its approach to immigration, and a unique note has fallen into human history. The total number of asylum seekers in Turkey today is higher than the population of many countries. The total number of foreigners in our country has reached 4.7 million, with 3.6 million of them in temporary protection from Syrians. Even in our city alone, 122,000 Syrian refugees live in exchange for the local population of 137,000. 385 thousand Syrian babies were born in our country. That's 395 Syrian babies a day. No doubt it is not easy to grasp all these immigrant populations, to provide all the services from education to health. In the past seven years, considering the changing circumstances, the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate, which has implemented its concept of adaptive service, has signed all kinds of commendations. Since the beginning of the refugee movement, Mr. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, all of our government's officials, particularly, have been sensitively focused on immigration, drawing the international public's attention to the drama these people are experiencing. We're the best and most humane country in this scale of migration. Our approach to this problem is human-oriented in a way that suits our civilization and our history. We can say that we have the best example of practice in the world. What we do about immigrants and our attitude toward refugees is only appreciated. We know that what we do today will not be limited to what we do today.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0022par0182	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0021par0183	Refugees will remember young, old, born in this land, done and done, good and evil, and the scales of history will weigh it. Not in vain, he wrote on the door of the Topkapi Palace, the refuge of all the oppressed. We're happy to have the same consciousness still in this land. As a member of the world's many refugee camps, I have witnessed the gratitude and gratitude of our country in the sight of the oppressed living in the camps. From here, I greet my refugee brothers and all the oppressed in the Palestinian refugee camp, in Arakan, Jordan, Lebanon, Syria, and many other parts of the world. As I put an end to my remarks, I ask that the budget of 2019 will bring blessings for our country and our nation, for those of our head of Migration Administration, Abdullah Ayaz, who has worked as a sacrifice in the headquarters and rural community of the General Directorate, especially from its foundation. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0023par0188	Mr. Bilgen, you have a request. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0192	Mr. President, first of all, I don't know how we're going to work today without solving the problem with these devices.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0023par0193	Let me make a brief statement about him: There are no more than 30 entrances to the system, which cannot be entered past the 30. At the moment, 30...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0194	Did the equipment work all day because there were no entrys for the last six days? Sounds like he's got a high demand for questions today.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0023par0195	Probably fell below 30, because there were promises in between. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0197	Mr. President, I, of course, wanted to speak to you at least to learn your position on the way you conduct the meeting. Now, of course, every congressional deputy has his own preference and a way to conduct a meeting, but we need to know how the Speaker of Parliament, who led the session that day, will act equally among the parties. Because on other days, the Speakers of Parliament sometimes agree and promise that after each orator speaking on the stand, the speakers of the 1st group will willingly respond to the word of the witness. Sometimes the Speaker of Parliament thinks otherwise, and the speakers don't make promises to the members of the group until that group is finished so they don't get upset. If we know how you're going to approach this, at least we want to know if we're going to answer directly in the speech of members of the 1st group who are targeting us, pointing at us, hinting at us, or how you're not going to promise anyone when they're talking -- if that's what's going to happen -- if that's what's going to happen, we're going to keep it waiting until the end. So we're clearly dealing with an approach that does not agree with both the way he evaluates matters and the responsibility of power. Now, I ask those who accuse us of choosing Hans instead of Hasan: How did this country defend McKinsey for months and why did it defend him? If it weren't for the opposition's reaction to McKinsey's accretion institution...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0025par0201	Let's open it up, guys, Mr. Group Vice President's microphone.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0202	...would the president put that attitude, and that step back, we don't know if he was taken, but would there be at least the relationship that was said to have been abandoned? Now, there are American bases in this country that have been numbering since the 1950s, where you have no way of knowing, and I have no way of knowing. We don't know how many or where. You brought a request for the closure of one US base during your rule to this country, this country's Parliament, and the opposition opposed it? Right now, except for state banks, I think you know that almost all of the current private sector banks' capitals have gone into foreign capital, as well as I do. Banks in the Arab capital or in the West, in Europe, in Italy, in Germany are the real owners of banks in Turkey, whose name is Turkish. Therefore, the owner of Uncle Hasan's land, whose land is mortgaged, is actually an investor in Italy, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0025par0205	Let's turn on the mike.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0206	So here, giving us a message about domesticity, nationality, I think there should be something clearer to all the opposition about the practice of 16 years, 17 years. And I just want to remind you of one example in terms of media messages. Look, a few days ago, of course, I don't think it's right to make a policy through the pain of any of us, but Omar Dinçer is a minister, undersecretary. There's a funeral and a funeral with Mr. Davutoglu on one side and Mr. Gul on the other. A media organization close to the government is saying, "What is this?" Now, through funerals and even internal political disputes, even in-party political disputes, when you walk through this dose, in this way, there's already no opposition media left to teach them what media lessons are you teaching them? Finally, Mr. President, the issue of refugees is an extra-party issue, and Turkey's sensitivity to refugees is of course admirable, but the refugee issue is a result. If we didn't predict that the Syrian war would come to this point, that there would be hundreds of thousands of refugees, that there would be a need to change regimes, that there would be a price, a price, for the first days of the war, for the babies, that's what we're missing. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0026par0213	Mr. Bilgen, you're asking about my attitude. And in my previous practice, after the speakers, if there's any demand, I promise the group's deputy presidents, without waiting for the group talks to be completed. As far as I'm concerned, as far as I'm concerned, all of our friends' apps are in that direction, there's no other application, as far as I can see.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0215	When the device wasn't turned on, I wondered if it was the result of your attitude.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0026par0216	It's not me. It's the system. It has to change the system. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0024par0218	We have a system problem, Mr. President. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0027par0274	Now, Hatay MP Hüseyin Şanverdi. Here you go, Mr. Shanverdi.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0028par0277	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group on the budget of Afet and Emergency Management. I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Mr. President, in order to ensure that disasters can be managed more effectively and under one roof, the AFAD, established in 2009, became the government system of the presidency, and was released on July 15, 2018. He was linked to the Ministry of Interior by the presidential decree. The AFAD is carrying out preparations and harm reductions before disasters take place, intervention during the incident, and recovery procedures after the incident as soon as possible. Mr. President, the AFAD is moving Turkey towards a sustainable development model with its improved capacity, increasing human resources and projects, and a major system and technological transformation under disaster management as it approaches Turkey in 2023. After the disasters, logistical storage works in 25 provinces have been completed to reach the disaster site as soon as possible, to meet its needs effectively and quickly, to store materials for the tent, and to provide temporary shelters from disaster and disaster victims in 30 counties without logistic storage. In other cities, these studies will be completed by the end of 2019. Mr. President, there have been 15 lightweight, 101 heavy-tonned urban search and rescue vehicles and 103 land-mobiles that are suitable for all geographical structures, moving in water and land, distributed to the county managers. Studies for education and awareness have begun and have prepared health and health plans for the province. As part of training studies, studies continue on basic disaster awareness, search and rescue, fire, national and international chemical, biological, radiation, and training of educators. As part of the Afete Ready Turkey Project, 11.5 million people have been reached across the country so far. In the national seismological monitoring network, the total of weak and powerful ground movement stations reached 1,056, as of 2018. The AFAD Earthquake Observation Network is among the world's leading networks with its high standard infrastructure. With the National Earthquake Research Programme, which supports our national earthquake strategy, research projects for public institutions and research institutes, particularly universities, are being financed for reducing the risk of earthquakes and disasters. Turkey's earthquake-resistant construction and earthquake-resistant earthquake-resistant earthquake-resistant regulation has been drafted, the Turkish Earthquake Danger Map updated, 11.528 disasters and emergency gathering areas have been offered via e-state. Mr. President, for the victims of the earthquakes in Çanakkale and Adıyaman, 205 of the 245 dwellings in Çanakkale Ayvacık. The 40 dwellings in Çanakkale Ayvacık, which continue to be delivered to 394 houses in Adıyaman Samsat, are planned to be delivered in February 2019. Co-ordinating the AFAD (AFAD) has recently carried out more than 500 domestic and international humanitarian and emergency activities. From Syria to Palestine, from Albania to Kyrgyzistan, Pakistan to Myanmar, Somalia to Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina to Iraq, many countries were given humanitarian aid.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0029par0285	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0028par0286	I'm ending it, Mr. President. Turkey has become the world's most humanitarian aid with $8 billion in aid, according to the British-based Development Initiatives Organization's 2018 report. In 2018, AFAD, with slogans such as "We Are Ready for the World," has once again proved to be a global brand by receiving an International Human Aid Award. Mr. President, I wish that the 2019 budget would be a blessing to our country, and I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0030par0290	Now, Councilman of Çanakkale, Jülide Alexanderoğlu... Here you are, Mr. Alexander.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0031par0293	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have made a commitment on behalf of our AK PARTY Group on the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services of 2019, and I salute our Veteran Assembly, the esteemed MPs. Today, the most important criteria for being an internationally powerful and respected country are to have a strong society structure, a working, productive and functioning economy. In order to ensure that this is done by the EC PARTI government, we are acting on the principle of our President and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan's motto to keep the people alive so that the state can live. In the last 16 years, we've made a big move in social government understanding and practice. Even if we take a brief look at the work we've done, we are particularly pleased that we will not have enough time here; 2023, 2053, 2071, is increasing our faith that we will reach our goals. We have raised the fight against the violence against the woman to the highest degree with the principle of zero tolerance. From the beginning of 2018, 27,785 public staff have been reached and our work continues. 130 mobile teams have been formed for children working on the street, and the field studies have provided social support and economic support for 10,873 children, and 224 of our children have been taken into protective custody. Our disabled brothers and sisters continue their appointments. As of the end of October, the number of disabled officers employed in public reached 53,964. The family was employed by our Ministry of Labor and Social Services from 2014 to today by 23.829 martyrs, veterans and veterans. We've always been there for our families, and we will continue to be. As part of the social government principle, in the last 16 years, our needy citizens have received about 283 billion dollars worth of social aid. In 2015, 173,689 people who were able to work for child welfare were paid 174m euros, while the Orphan and Orphans' Aid Programme took advantage of İSKUR (IPUR) in 2018. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, our priority in working life and employment is to improve the employment contribution of growth by organizing, overseeing, and solving structural problems of the labour market, employment and employment. It's also one of our priorities to create a qualified human resource, to take social security facilitating measures, to improve the culture of occupational health and safety, to create a healthy and safe working environment in all our work. At the point of boosting employment, we continue to work on the 2017-2019 Action Plan, with 165 measures in IT, finance, construction, health, agriculture, tourism, textiles and ready-dressing sectors to strengthen the employment-social protection relationship. At the rate of growth in the first half of 2018, the strong Turkey left many European Union countries behind. The growth of 7.3% in the first quarter continued to be 5.2% in the second quarter. Our country continues to increase its growth and employment despite all obstacles, economic attacks and sanctions. Turkey has increased by 7.3 points in the last 11 years to join the labour force, while its overall participation in the European Union has been 0.7. Women's participation in the labour force in Turkey also increased by 10.4 points to 33.5 per cent. In 2005, the number of women employed in our country was 5 million 108 thousand, while as of August 2018, we reached 9 million 109. Our goal is to increase female employment further. Since 2018, we've given 50,000 lira grants to disabled people who want to start their own business, making 1,326 disabled brothers the owner of their own work, declaring 2018 a year of child labor. On the way to their 2023 goals, we continue with major projects and investments that will increase social prosperity, especially Family, Work and Social Services. We are 81 million single families with our differences, our multifaceted culture, our rich human diversity, our beliefs, our social values. As I put an end to my remarks, I salute you all on behalf of my person and the AK PARTY Group, the historic budget of 2019, which is due to the first budget of our presidential government system.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0032par0306	Thank you. Now, Alderman Sami Cakir. Here you go, Mr. Cakir.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0033par0310	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our EC PARTY group on the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services of the Proposal of the Central Management Act of 2019. I hereby salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation. Together with the new system, we are negotiating the budget of 2019 of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, which is created by the merger of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. I wish both the new Ministry and the budget we're meeting with to be a blessing. The family is the basis of the Turkish community and is based on equality between spouses. The state takes the necessary measures to ensure that the family's well-being and especially the protection of mothers and children and the implementation of family planning are implemented. We are discussing the budget of a ministry that has claimed responsibility for a constitutional guarantee. What we can accept as a root cell of the state structure is a fundamental unit of family, blood relation, marriage, and other legal means, where individuals who are related to each other are mostly living in the same house, where their psychological, social, economic needs are met, and their integration and participation in society is provided and organised. We know that every step towards building a strong family will be a step towards becoming a powerful state. It is difficult to ensure that both the rights and interests of working life and the family's ability to reach a desired position, but also the beautiful and holy one. With this accomplished, its main goal is a known fact that will bring happiness and satisfaction to man. Family unity is something we care about, it's irrefutable, and it's an ally of almost everyone here. There's an irrefutable response to education. We must also be able to stand up to the alliance of all the approaches and methods that could disrupt the family union. It is clear that organizing, auditing, peace of work, taking measures to increase employment and promote social security will contribute to increasing community well-being, and it will interact within the family to establish unity and unity and family awareness. If Turkey is desired in a good place on a world scale where full employment and social security is provided for everyone, working conditions are improved, and the peace of work is dominated by the world, it will be possible with the legacy that we will carry from history, from civilization, from culture to today. Counting the innovations that have been brought into working life on its own won't be possible as long as there's a shortage of time. Only those who believe in the sanctity of labor should be accepted as the Day of Labor and Solidarity on May 1st, pay the laborer's labor before the sweat is dry. We should see it as a reflection of his motto. Perhaps it will be possible to see this understanding as a first step in coming out of the difficult processes that we've been through today. We believe in maintaining human dignity in working life, respect, human health, and future, to implement reforms in basic areas that will embrace all our citizens without exception, will continue to be our main strategy today, as it was yesterday, and we consider the ministry's work on social aid to be in this area and in the interest of being a social state to the end. The latest ILO reports warn that unemployment rates that are going on around the world will continue to affect the working life of chronic and fragile employment in many rising and developing countries. This makes it necessary for policymakers to focus more on strengthening employment policies and over-resolving inequality. The efforts and efforts of the EC PARTI authorities in this regard are an epiphany of that understanding. In total, 103 billion, 91 million, 801 thousand liras, I wish the ministry's budget of 2019 to be good, and I salute the General Assembly and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0034par0323	Thank you, Mr. Cakir. Ankara MP Asuman Erdogan is now in charge. Here you are, Mr. Erdogan.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0035par0327	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group regarding the budget for 2019 of the institution of professional qualifications. As I begin my words, I salute our Veteran Assembly and all of you. Under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we have implemented many practices to have a strong economy. (EC PARTY) There is a constant fact that one of the most important measures of being a strong and respected international country is to have a strong and stable economy. Of course, it is important to ensure that the implementation of vocational and employment policies that are compatible with each other is to develop a labour force that has jobs. Today, the introduction of vocational and technical education in developed countries in line with professional standards and competencies provides solutions both in education, economic efficiency, and in boosting competitiveness. It is also known that in working life, efficiency and efficiency in production, minimal reduction of business accidents depends on the presence of qualified and documented labor force. The requirement for a certificate of professional competence in dangerous class will contribute positively to occupational health and safety. In this sense, the common method of economics in developed countries is to establish and operate quality-safe measurement, evaluation, documentation systems based on standards and accretion. Established in Turkey to meet this need, the Family, Labour and Social Services Ministry's relevant organisation, the Occupational Qualification Agency, has been able to create our country's national professional standards and competencies from its start in 2006, providing a qualified employee in our country's accessories and documentation system. The Association for Professional Qualification has given Turkey a new perspective on human resources management and working life. He has taken over the mission of professional and technical training and documentation of the labour force and restructuring. In 13 years, the Employment Agency has signed important work. In addition to sectors involving dangerous and dangerous professions such as construction, energy, automotive, mining, many of the citizens took advantage of their daily services in real estate, second-hand automotive sales, service driving, and occupational competence. In an understanding that always looking out for the worker and the employer, an additional financial burden has not been brought to our employees and employers under the obligation of a certificate of professional competence, and some 350,000 people have been provided with test and documentation support for the amount of $265m. One of the ways to have a strong and stable economy is by actively employing the workforce of the country's population, as well as the distance of professional competence. In this sense, increasing women's employment will enable our country to have a strong economy. Our ministry has many rights and advantages to mothers and mothers who work to ensure that more and more women are actively involved in business life. And as a working mother, I'd like to continue my conversation by talking about them. In addition to facilitating the existence of working women in working life during the EC PARTY, arrangements have supported them in many ways. Starting with the pregnancy process, working hours during pregnancy are arranged at most as seven and a half hours a day. It also forbids mother candidates to work the night shift. During pregnancy, mother candidates are entitled to pay leave for periodic doctor's checks. The pregnant woman has earned the right to work in lighter jobs, which are in line with the employee health, if required by the doctor's report. Women's workers are entitled to 18 weeks of leave before birth and eight after childbirth. In addition, working fathers are entitled to five days off in case their spouse gives birth. A working mother who has just given birth is forbidden to work at night for a year watching the birth. A mother is granted one and a half hours of milk a day until her child is one year old. One of the most recent supports brought to mothers is the right to work part-time after childbirth, which is revolutionary. At the end of the legal maternity leave, mothers can use half of the week's work period at their request for child care, care, and care. The birth mothers are also given financial support by the Ministry. The first one is child's money. The second financial support for the birthing mother is milk money for all mothers, whether they work or work. Our ministry's third support is incapacity payment. This is a huge support for our mothers, especially at minimum wage. The state pays temporary incapacity for prenatal and post-natal vacations of 8+8 weeks.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0036par0338	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0035par0339	As I finish, I'd like to thank you as a triplet mother for the plural gestation support that our Ministry has given to our Minister for Planning and Budget Commission presentation. I wish our country the best budget of 2019, and my regards to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0036par0342	Now it's time for Konya MP Halil Etamamez. Here you go, Mr. Meatball.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0037par0345	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of our group on behalf of the budget for the budget of the President of State. I hereby salute our General Assembly and our beloved nation. During our 16-year EC PARTI rule, we carried out our policies under the leadership of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, with major projects, huge investments and economic development, as well as a genuine social state that protects his employee and looks after his unworkable. We have always viewed careers, merits, and driver's licenses, especially in the state administration and in the public staff system. We built all of our work on these basic values so that the government could get rid of the custody elements and adopt a transparent sense of governance. In this framework, the President of State Staff, while conducting staff jobs, financial and social rights, record, disciplinary and rewarding procedures for our public administration and public staff systems, contributes substantially to the professional development of public employees through training, workshops and seminars that are organised throughout Turkey and abroad to guide and guide the public staff system. Mr. President, the most important factor of the quality and quality of service given to our citizens is, of course, the satisfaction and motivation of our public servant, who is serving. With that consciousness, in accordance with the policies of our 16-year-old EC PARTY governments, we've made various arrangements for our public servants who serve our nation as well as for all our peoples. At this point, we've made serious improvements in the right to organise public officials, especially in the last six years, seeing union organisations as essential elements of our democracy. With the referendum on September 12, 2010 and the amendment we made with our associates in 2012, we launched the unionism of public officials, the period of collective contracting. Under the leadership of our Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, our State Staff President conducts the collective contract process with a transparent, participatory, and negotiating understanding, keeping consultation channels open with all concerned partners. We have developed the right to organize in public administration, and the collective right of contracting with our officers has allowed the union rate to reach 68 per cent. Precious lawmakers, in the time of our government, we've never had our public employees crushed by inflation. We raised the lowest salary of civil servants, including family allowance, to $392 in 2002, to $3,33 TL, as of 2018. This increase is at 700 percent. We've also recruited over 300,000 contractors. We've moved the 4/C/C to 4/B status and eliminated the 4/C status. We gave our government officials an additional degree after 2005. Among our public employees, we have carried out the arrangement for the equivalent price of an equal title. We've brought disciplinary pardons to our officers with the law we passed. We made sure all bank promotions were paid to public employees. We also ended the victims of antidemocratic practices. We've removed the obstacles to the work of our public officials, whose belief is to cover their heads. During February 28th, when he was a candidate officer due to the headscarf, we allowed those who were suspended to be reassigned to their institutions. We've put an end to the record report. We've provided serious improvements in their salaries by bringing academic staff the two payment elements under the name "high-school compensation" and "akademic incentives." With nearly a million subcontractors on a permanent staff, we would have achieved a significant loss. By declaring May 1st an official holiday, we made sure it was celebrated as Labor and Solidarity Day. Dear lawmakers, when we look back, we see that, as in many areas, public personnel management has been dealt with in the past, in the form of gangrene, in the period of our government, problems have been solved one by one. We've paid 15.1 billion TL in the Savings Fund, 3.5 billion in KEY accounts, to the rightful owners. Dear lawmakers, we've done the jobs of the martyrs and veterans and 24,000 of our veterans, who we've always owed a debt of gratitude to them in the last four years. In 2002, we moved the number of disabled officers, 5,777, to 53,964, as of today. Within this month, the appointment of another 2,504 disabled brothers and sisters is scheduled to be fulfilled.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0038par0353	Let's finish, please, Mr. Can't.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0037par0354	We never neglected our children who were entrusted with the compassion of our government. We also see an ad for 3,274 staff in December. Ladies and gentlemen of lawmakers wish that the budget of the 36m TL2019 budget, which we can call the memory of the state, which is trying to carry out a critical mission, such as the determination of the public administration system with its fifty-eight-year history, should be a blessing, and I salute our General Assembly with a year of success.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0038par0357	Now it's time for Ankara MP Arife Polat Sagittarius. Here you go, Mr. Polat Straight.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0039par0360	Mr. President, I have a pledge on behalf of my group on the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2019. I hereby salute the High Council. Dear lawmakers, governments strive to offer their citizens the best health care in a sustainable way. The EC PARTY has taken very important steps towards better, more efficient presentation of health care through health care programme applications. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, in 2002 the budget was divided into 2.6 per cent to 5 billion Turkish liras, while in 2019 it was up to about 4.5 per cent to 49 billion Turkish liras. When we look at the basic health indicators, we see significant improvements. The baby's mortality rate has been reduced from 31.5/1000 to 6.8. The mother's mortality rate has been reduced from 64,000 to 6.4. The expected life expectancy has risen from 72 to 78 years. According to TÜİK data, health care satisfaction rate increased from 47 per cent in 2004 to 72 per cent in 2017. According to OECD data, Turkey is the country that provides the highest satisfaction compared to the money it spends. As a result of the self - sacrificing efforts of all health workers, health results have been successful. In 2002, the total number of patients was 164,471, which is now 225,863. In the same way, we increased the number of intensive care beds from 869 to 16 thousand, the number of burn treatment beds from 35 to 487, and the number of cost-care beds from 35 to 4.750. In 2002, the quality of bed was only 6 per cent, while in 2018, it rose to 70 per cent. With our 2023 targets, hopefully, we'll make all our sick beds qualified. Dear lawmakers, the birth rate of health care companies was 75 per cent in 2002, while now 99.8 per cent in 2002. We've already diagnosed and cured the loss of hearing of 1,234,000 children we've run a new-born hearing scan on. The number of transplants reached 5,000 in 2002 at 745, while the number of voluntary donors reached 385K in 2018. We transplanted 921 patients with cells from Turkish bone marrow. Health care has been implemented at home since the beginning of 2010. Through home health care services, our ministry provides social care and care for bedridden patients, respiratory patients, and terminal cancer patients at home. So far, 1,200,000 patients have been given home health care and today's number of stalked patients will be 380. Mr. President, good lawmakers, there have been significant increases in health and manpower during our time in power. In 2002, the total number of health workers in the public population was 206,000, reaching 630,000 today. Again, arrangements for health workers' rights have been made. In this scope, rights to wear out and improvements in the salary of our retired medical examiners have been made within the scope of budgets. Unfortunately, we see a growing amount of violence towards health workers in recent years. We've made new legal arrangements to ensure that health workers serve in a safe environment, prevent them from being exposed to violence. I thank those who have done all the work in preparing our health ministry's budget, wish it to be the cause of healthy generations, and I salute you all, especially health workers.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0040par0370	Thank you. Now it's Karaman MP Recep Candy. Here you go, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0041par0374	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on the budget of the High Health Directorate of Turkey's Borders and Coasts. I salute your committee. At the same time, on this occasion, I give a blessing on the 745th anniversary of Karaman, who spent about fifteen years in his youth in Karaman, and who entrusted his mother to Karaman. Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate, which is the window of our Ministry of Health to the world, has taken all necessary health measures at international entry points to prevent international public health risks from entering our country, determining and implementing control measures against factors that affect public health. Using the powers that stem from national and international agreements and contracts, our Turkish General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts, which has been serving without interruption from the Ottomans for nearly two centuries now from the Ottoman Empire, has revealed that our country has been an important institution with urgent intervention in recent and present-day global epidemics. The institution is providing services for health inspections, travel health care, tele health care, ship's men, health care services, and has been granted free practice to 33,149 ships in 2018 and patented to 33,067 ships, as well as ship's health certificates to 2.897 ships. As part of travel health services in 2018, 56,880 people were given travel health care, 24,465 yellow fever and 26,655 typhoid inoculations, while 18.756 people were given chemoprophylaxis to protect them from malaria. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers have been moved from one ward-type rooms to one and two qualified rooms in our hospitals since 2003, from 6 to 70 per cent, our number of intensive care beds has been increased from 869/996, from 35 to 487%. In 2002, our number of applications to physicians, each of whom was 3.1 when our population was 65 million, rose to 8.9, despite 81 million populations in 2018. Life expectancy has risen from 72.5 to 78 years from 72.5 years, and the rate of mother death has increased from 64 to 14.6, while the rate of child death has increased from 31.5 to 6.8. The rate of inoculation in the 70 per cent before the AK PARTI rule has been increased to 13 antigens, and success has reached 97 per cent. As of 2018, the population per family physician unit has been reduced to 3,065 people. From 2012 to today 1,200,000 people have been given home health care, with 1,587 beds offered at 265 health facilities in 81 districts. The year when a SEC hospital, which was my constituency district, was not finished in 18 years, was also passed through the period when nearly 15,000 new health facilities were built in the 15 years under the AK PARTI rule. The City Hospital Project, which Mr. President calls "Dream," has been implemented, and eight of our 8 city hospitals with 8,358 beds have been offered to our citizens, and we will have opened 30,809 qualified beds when they are completed. We've become the World Health Organization's prized country in the fight against tobacco. We skipped the age of emergency health care covering our entire country. From 2008 to today, we delivered 42,000 cases in air ambulances, 6 naval boat ambulances from 2007 to today, 16,000 cases for free. We've moved health care out of our country. As of today, we have hospitals in Sudan, Bangladesh, Somalia, Palestine, Niger, Kyrgyzistan. In addition, we provide health care with six hospitals in Syria, including Cobanbey, Mare, El Bab, Afrin, Azez Ehli, and Cerablus. Our country was held hostage by the power of the AK PARTI, long hospital lines, patients and funerals in hospitals, selling people's cars, houses, farms for heart and so forth, having births on a sled, not finding medicine.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0042par0387	Let's finish, please, Mr. Sugar.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0041par0388	...has reached the days of our people's healing, dying, smiling face, and, on this occasion, the level of satisfaction in health care has risen by 72 percent. In reaching all this data, I give thanks to our President, our ministers, and our health workers at every level, wishing that our budget of 2019 should be better, and I salute your delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0042par0391	Dear lawmakers, let's leave the commission lines and our ministers alone, please, following the talks. I'd like to ask you to pass along your notices and demands.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0043par0392	There's a job chase, there's a bid chase.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0044par0393	There's no access to the system, so I thought I'd keep it prepared, but we can't get into the system, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0042par0394	Let's open it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0044par0395	No, we don't need it now, I just said it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0042par0396	Okay. Now it's time for Nevşehir MP Mustafa Aggressor. Here you go, Mr. Smarty-pants.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0045par0400	Mr. President, I salute you with respect, with love, with conversation. I pray that our budget of 2019 will bring blessings, blessings, and blessings to our nation, our nation, and all our ministries. At first, all of our martyrs, the 15th of July, our martyrs, and all of our brothers who have come to testify, ask God's mercy, and thank our veterans. We will continue our decisive fight with all terrorist organizations until the end of the terrorist movement. Trying to plant seeds of hypocrisy among our nation, he is invited to go out into the square, into the streets. Let no one take heed of the invitations to which they will pay the heavy price, our beloved nation will not allow them. Dear MPs, the mission of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices is to serve the community through regulatory, controlling, guiding actions for cosmetic products, with traditional herbal, support and advanced treatment products. Its vision is to become a human-oriented, scientific, value-producing, internationally pioneer reference institution. He became a full member of the International Drug Control Association (PIC/S) earlier this year. This membership also means the quality of pharmaceutical production in our country. So we expect a significant increase in drug exports. Here at first, I congratulate Mr. Health Minister, our president of the institution, our entire institution, and wish you a continued success. In the world, it's called a fake, illegal, insecure drug that comes to mind with a system called ITS. In the developed countries, the number of illegal products is 10 per cent, while in our country, there are 0 per cent. The Drug Tracking System (ITS) is the first practice in the world, and other countries are now using it. In 2016, the Product Tracking System (UTS) again signed a principle in the world, which is critical for product safety, including medical equipment and cosmetic products. The singular tracking process that began this year will continue next year, and all medical equipment will be followed from production or import to the last user or patient. The Prescription Information System (RBS) has been updated and the Electronic Colored Prescription System has been implemented. Our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, we care deeply about domestication and nationalization in the pharmaceutical industry. The study of nationalization launched in the field of medicine will be widely distributed to all health products. The ultimate goal is to become a self-sufficient country in medicine, in vaccines, in blood products, in medical devices. Another goal is to achieve a competitive production structure in the world market. In the framework of our vision of 2023 Turkish Medicine and Medical Devices, medical technology, one of the key areas to our future, is to take steps in the public, universities and industry, with all its dimensions, and work is determined. Our country has the infrastructure and capacity to produce drugs in world standards. The goal, with the nationalization project in medicine, is to activate the capacity of this board that we don't use, to take the step that will provide the advanced technology technology that technology needs with export-oriented growth. The amount of medicine we think can be produced in Turkey is 6.1 billion euros per year. A total of 609 drugs, which have cost about $3 billion, are covered by nationalization as of 2016. For the rest of the hundreds of products, the work continues. The ministry and the institution's main goal in nationalization is undoubtedly to become a country that produces domestic active materials, medicines, and medical devices. For this reason, the startup model, one of the most active models in the world, has also been implemented in our country. As a result, the strengthening of this institution with its regulations, its strong international memberships, its integrated control mechanisms for the world, the access to safe products, and its vision of becoming a reference institution based on the health of the public will enable our country to have a say in this area. Dear MPs, in Palestine, mankind is dying, not people. The common cause of the Muslims, Jerusalem, is a jungle of civilization for us. On behalf of our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and the peace ambassadors, who have made efforts to end the invasion of Israel in Palestine, from any language, religion, nation, and nation, I hereby give my greetings to Jerusalem. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Mr. President, dear lawmakers, with balloons flying through the sky, civilization underground, boutique hotels, and the world's unique Cappadocia, we expect you to take a vacation. Again, I wish our 2019 budget to be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0046par0415	Thank you, Mr. Smarty-pants. The last word for the AK PARTY Group is in Niğde MP Selim Gültekin. Here you go, Mr. Gültekin.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0047par0419	Mr. President, I have made a pledge in the sixth round of the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal on behalf of our EC PARTY Group regarding the budget for the chairmanship of the Turkish Institutes of Health. I salute our High Council. It was founded in 2015 to serve our country and humanity by producing information in the field of health sciences and technology, called the Turkish Health Institutes, whose short name is TUSEB, and is based on free competition in science and technology, and is a scientific research institution that does and supports scientific research under the principles of transparency and equality. In the field of health, science and technology, increasing and maintaining Turkey's competitiveness, taking into account the goals of the development plan and the priorities set by Mr. President, it is intended to meet our country's need for advanced technology and innovation, to ensure the development of new products, to do scientific research, to do research, to coordinate these research, to encourage, to contribute to the AR-GE. So TUSEB was founded to adapt to scientific developments and innovative studies in the field of health industries around the world, to maintain its success in our country's presentation of healthcare in the field of science and RD. TUSEB operates at seven institutes, including Cancer, Biotechnology, Mother, Child and Teen Health, People's Health and Chronic Diseases, Traditional and Completive Medicine, Quality and Accreditation, Health Policy. A few examples of TESSEB's activities are planned for the Turkish Genom Project, and for early detection and personal treatment of non-cancer diseases and risk factors. For this purpose, the St. Sancar Research Centre in Ankara's Foreign Ministry Training and Research Hospital has been opened. As Mr. President's Second 100 Day Action Plan explains, the National Producing Project of the Crimean Congo has established a vaccine of hemorrhagic fever and a vaccine of adult types of tetranos-diphter, which has been established by the TUSEB in terms of domestic vaccine production and has been set up a road map of vaccines in our country's RD and production. Again, the project contract for the production of plasma products from domestic plasma in Turkey has been signed, and the RD study will be conducted by the Turkish Health Institutes. In addition, studies have begun to establish 30 obese centers as part of the fight against obesity. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, as EC PARTY, we take care of health. From 2002, when our EC PARTY came to power, the government has signed revolutionary reforms that it has implemented with its motto. The biggest benefit of the transformation was the gathering of relevant institutions under one roof, allowing our citizens to have the simplest access to top-level health care. In 2002, the health budget increased by 11.3 per cent to 13.5 billion euros, while in 2019 it increased by about 11 times to 157 billion euros. Again, after 2002, our citizens met home health care. Today, more than a million citizens received home health care. In light of many reforms, the level of satisfaction in health care increased from 30 to 40 per cent in 2002 to 70 to 80 per cent today. During our 16-year EC PARTY rule, our province of Niğde also received significant health investments. The best example of this is our modern 400-bed education and research hospital, which we opened in 2013. So that we don't even have advanced imaging devices in our province until 2002, and we're going through a period of advanced imaging, including MRI, EEG, CT, where stents hang out, and angio services are being performed. Again, recently, our state hospitals in Bor, Ulukış and Farm counties have begun to serve our citizens more modernly in their new buildings. In addition, with the support of our health minister, a new 400-bed hospital, oral and dental centres and family health centres are under way. On December 6th, our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and with the support of our CEC President, the decision to be established at the University of Nüğde Ömer Halisdemir, the University of Bor Health Sciences, and recently established our country's medical school, which will meet the need for physicians, has achieved significant health benefits. Turkey hopes that the 50m 136k euro budget for 2019 of our Health Institutes will be used in efforts that will be of great use to our country, with which I wish that our budget be good for our country and our nation, with respect to our beloved nation and the Veterans Assembly, watching us on their screens.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0048par0428	Thank you, Mr. Gültekin. So, friends, the talks on behalf of the AK PARTY group are complete. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, we begin our talks. First up is Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Orç. Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 11 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0049par0435	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, when we discuss the Ministry of Interior's budget, no doubt we need to discuss its policy primarily so the budget can be planned accordingly. Turkey's domestic politics is under heavy influence from foreign policy and is currently under the influence of the politics of violence over war politics. Thus, each year's budget is increasing a little bit. I'd like to give you a small number: the allowance for 2019 is up by 21.5 per cent, according to 2018. Nearly 10 million shares are cut from social security spending, and that share is earmarked for the ministry. Overprotective policy is driven by a policy with the public's money to keep the stick on the back of the people. It's really expensive to step on all the universal values and human life. But if we had managed to create an equal and free country, it would have been cheaper, it would have cost less, and it was very precious, very valuable, but we can't do that, unfortunately. Mr. Secretary Plan and Budget Commission stated in its presentation that the need for security, increasing chaos and confusion that has caused negative changes in the world and in the region is increasing insecurity. Yes, there is no doubt that regional reflections and reflections of the crisis of global capital in our country, we all have to evaluate this, but we all have to express that if Turkey hadn't been subcontracted the imperial forces here, if Turkey hadn't continued to do so, we wouldn't need such serious security policies to build peace in this region. The current government did not view the July 15th military coup attempt as a blessing to deepen its fascist regime, but it also made progress in the Middle East, the turmoil in Iraq, and the turmoil in Syria an important commodity of domestic politics, which he viewed as God's blessing. The more I called it security politics, the more insecure I was on the border. People in border counties never feel safe. At any moment, ISIS, El Nusra and its extension are afraid and afraid of being attacked by gangs. Turkey has already been through a lot about it. Look, Suruç lived and suffered the massacre of the Gar, and it happened knowingly, and it was, unfortunately, tolerated because they were allowed to rivet the power within. Now the intervention in northern Syria is on the agenda. We know it's for local politics, we know it's for domestic politics, because you have no other way of winning the upcoming local elections. Because you've managed the economy so badly because you've put this country through so many difficult times that you've polarized society in this country that of course the public will give you an answer, but look, there are violations in our borders by bringing security politics into play again. Look, our borders are not safe. You are now preparing an operation for northern Syria. I mean, give it up. Unfortunately, the power available in Turkey is heavily influenced by the racist clique. I don't mean it like that, but you're contradicting your community. You're going after a racist clinic in the name of a power, an alliance. Dear friends, I'd like to continue with a few examples of the brutal journey by the State of Emergency in Turkey. The provisions under the law have been counted above the Constitution. When you're suffering from over 130,000 discharges from the lack of doctors and teachers, this country has not made appointments, and you're still starving people with security investigations. You are most heavily interfering with simple demonstrations and walks that are defined by the law. You call it the age of science, but you bring all kinds of limits to freedom of thought and expression. You're even giving him punishments for social media use. See, Internet use in Arabia is limited. In Iran, Khomeini even banned radios when he came to power. Right now, you're in the history pages next to those samples. The torture was called zero tolerances, but unfortunately I don't think math is known, so what you call zero, you've done more than enough. So, I'm recommending a policy regimen as well as a mathematical adjustment. One of the most important values of this society is funerals and ceremonies, but you have nurtured the mentality that did not allow the mother of Aysel Tuğluk to be buried in Ankara. You watched, encouraged, and encouraged, that 267 bodies were removed from the grave and not delivered to their families. Mother Taybet's funeral lay around for days, and Cemile's body was kept in the fridge for days. One of the most important land pages in the history of this House is the removal of immunity. To leave HDP without politics, to destroy HDP in this Parliament -- this is the sin of all Parliaments -- they have been granted immunity, and our co-Chairs, our MPs are now in prison. You just didn't get enough of it. The President himself stepped in and sent instructions to ensure that the decision taken by the ECHM has not been carried out for Mr. Demirtaş today and stated at the hearing: "The judges do not judge me, the governors of the AKP are judging me." Isn't that the right statement? The matter of the trustees, again, is an important example of this adventure. A trustee has been appointed to the 96 DBP municipality, but no research and study of these municipalities has found a single shred of corruption. But the biggest corruption is in the district municipalities of Istanbul and Adana, when we look at the Court reports. Why can't you put trustees in there, why don't you look over there? Because your municipalities, we know that very well. And again, one of the most important examples of this adventure is that your behavior towards their mothers on Saturday, you took their mothers into custody by dragging them out of their hair, out of their tub, not only that, Mr. Secretary, you said to our mothers -- even the coupkers in Argentina -- you didn't do it, you didn't just threaten Mr. President Pervin Buldan. At the commission meeting, you threatened our friend Ebrü Günay, waved your finger. And again, during this period of power, violence against women has rapidly increased, with 1,400 per cent of violence increased. Only 225 women were murdered in 2018. Here, on November 25th, on International War on Violence Against Women, if the Home Secretary of a country has come out and attacked police in events in Istanbul, the exploiters, the enthusiastics. If he can say, it is an understanding that encourages violence and murder against women, remember that. Dear friends, in the atmosphere of security understanding, the economic crisis will deepen, and you won't be able to find a solution. As a socialist, I say that even capital today doesn't feel safe in Turkey, which has a significant role in deepening the economic crisis. The President has announced the second 100 Daily Action Plans, and the Action Plan has tried to beat us with a chain of iron and interest, but they failed. He can say, "It's going to be an off-the-book economy." How do you explain this informal economy to people like aliens created it? This balloon began to go out; laborer is hungry, poor, unemployment is knee-deep; there are people who can't buy bread; tomatoes, potatoes burn hands; people swim in debt; but you take the bill to a shop that hides 3-5 sacks of potatoes, tomatoes. See, this is a manav and a tablet that means that you've had a vision of 2023, but I think it's going to break down: look, Tuazizi was a tablekeeper in Tunisia, but the role of Buazizi. This is a proposal to you: instead of spending money on $2.5 billion of S-400 missiles as the ministry forms its budget, we must reserve this money to build peace, peace in this country, artificial security politics, and you can't fool anyone anymore. Otherwise, the fearful will not rule as long as they want to lead by fear. That's why you create an empire of fear, but you can't rule. You can no longer threaten society with hunger. Look, there's a story of Karun, and you all know it: Karun formed a philosophy around wealth against Moses; it was a philosophy of wealth, pleasure, philosophy of interest, and he tried to put the whole order into it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0050par0452	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0049par0453	There's a saying in Arabic:........... the same thing happened for Karun, it will happen for you too. In the end, Karun was swallowed by the earth and seven floors underground. The more power poisoning goes on, the more that poison turns, the more it poisons you. Despite all this poison, we call it peace, freedom, and we continue to say the same in previous processes, just as we continue to call it justice for the people. We want a budget for the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0051par0457	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0052par0458	Mr. President, we have a request for a statement according to the Civil Code of 60, if you'll excuse me...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0051par0459	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0052par0462	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs have been involved in several accusations and taunts against our party. I think it's useful to make these clear: terms such as "war politics" and "violence politics" and "safety policy" were used. Dear friends are obliged to ensure the safety of state citizens in Turkey, which is a constitutional obligation. Why does it bother anyone, to keep people safe, to let people live their lives in peace? It's obvious who's uncomfortable. And those who are sick - these people know very well, and so do We. It's a terrorist organization that's uncomfortable with this. Who's being fought? It's a terrorist organization. Who's uncomfortable? It's a terrorist organization. Who lost their maneuverability? It's a terrorist organization. Thus, our struggle is directed toward these. It is also an extremely wrong expression to keep a stick on the back of the people with the money of the people.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0053par0466	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0052par0467	Here, the Republic of Turkey makes its budget with taxes, that's true, but the stick is not missing from the back of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), but the voice of the People's Party (PKK) comes from here, unfortunately, through this MP.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0054par0468	Snap out of it!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0052par0469	If you hadn't subcontracted the Imperial Powers. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, look, our armed forces and our security forces are preparing an operation. You see the servants there, don't you? You see very well who the footmen are hiding behind the American flags, who's sticking their backs to them, who's subcontractoring them. So we're going there to crush those contractors' heads, but unfortunately, it's coming out of here again. Here in Turkey, if a fascist party is wanted, it is the Democratic Party of Peoples; there is no more fascist party in Turkey than themselves.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0054par0474	Look in the mirror, in the mirror! Look in the mirror!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0055par0475	Don't be so provocative.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0056par0476	Friends... friends, let's be quiet. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0057par0478	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. There was talk of the safety of our citizens who lived on the border; terrorist organizations such as ISIS, Al Nusra; however, the PKK forgot to count. Look, wasn't it the PKK terror organization who dug holes into people's privates, entered their apartments, and used them as a shield there?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0058par0480	It was you, you, you!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0057par0481	Why don't you talk about it? That stick is on the back of a PKK terrorist organization.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0058par0482	You're the one who destroyed Şırnak!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0057par0483	Turkey has been dealt with by these terrorist organizations, but whatever wisdom it is, it prevents them from counting it, but don't let a word come to him! Look, lawmakers, there will be an operation to the north of Syria -- not northern Syria -- for the safety of our citizens' lives and property.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0058par0485	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0059par0486	There is no attack on Turkey from there.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0057par0487	Turkey is under the influence of a racist clinic for our party. Look, there is no more racist and fascist party here than the HDP. You should know that very well.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0058par0489	Look in the mirror, in the mirror!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0060par0490	What kind of talk is that? You're such a provocateur!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0061par0491	Everyone's here, Süryani's here, Alevi's here, Arab's here, everybody's here, he calls it the racist.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0062par0492	Let's finish, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0493	Mr. President, I'm finishing. We know very well and see how they are hostile to those who do not vote for them and how the PKK terrorist organization, which he just spoke for here, killed when something was said against the HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0064par0495	Uður Kurt, slain in front of Cemevi, slaughtered in front of the temple. He must be accounted for. That cop is still out there.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0496	They are security forces who interfere with Aysel Tuğluk's mother. It's the security forces that prevent the provocation there. From the very beginning, Mr. President and our Home Secretary have done everything they can to prevent it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0064par0497	Uður Kurt had nothing to do with it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0498	It was a provocation. Despite the necessary explanations and explanations, it still revolves around the same place. It's as if it's a party policy or a state policy... that people, all citizens of the Republic of Turkey, have the right to be buried where they want to be when they get Rahmetirahman. This is the same thing for 81 million citizens.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0065par0499	How many minutes is he gonna talk, Mayor, five minutes?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0500	Mr. President, there's talk of violence against women.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0066par0501	How many minutes is the President compared to 60?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0502	Now, in order for a party to take into account what you're saying, to make it worth your while...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0067par0503	We're gonna ask you what we're gonna say?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0504	Look, I'm going to read you something very short. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Y of the Terrorists. S. In his testimony...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0068par0507	Mr. Mush, let's finish.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0509	For a woman, Kandil means rape. In the kandil, a woman is a meta that the person who wants to use as much as he wants. Look, it's a terrorist who gets caught.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0069par0510	You're ugly, ugly!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0511	Who's he singing for? Did you hear a word in the kandil, about the actions of the terrorists on the mountain against women? You can't hear. Did they say a word? They won't, they won't.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0070par0513	Did you see them in the kandil?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0063par0514	Because when they're talking, they watch them, they listen, they know exactly what's going to happen if they get out of that text. So there's no value to their explanation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0071par0517	Mr. President, I want your word.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0072par0518	Wait a minute, we're doing it in order of demand. Mr. Akçay...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0073par0521	Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, there have been some statements aimed at the Cumhur Alliance. Now, first of all, we're returning those charges to him. The Cumhur Alliance is the name of an alliance that is determined to establish a common stance in the face of attacks aimed at Turkey, without party interests and daily political calculations, and to stand in the face of any action aimed at making Turkey weak and open to international operations. In this context, there is also a struggle with terrorism, terrorists and terrorists' allies and their accomplices. I suppose that's what the discomfort comes from. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Here you go. That's all I need for now, Mr. President. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0074par0528	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0531	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Mush, normally, according to 69, he had to speak up and speak for two minutes and get off the stand. The preacher spoke for 11 minutes, Mr. Mush spoke for 13 minutes. And I'm in the process of reciprocating...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0074par0533	Not thirteen, four minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0076par0534	You do this all the time, you do this to these two parties, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0535	Come on, let's make a deal at five, Mayor. Now, as the budget goes into a controversial phase -- of course, it's a delicate issue -- the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget -- I actually want to make some suggestions with the Supreme General Assembly on this occasion, and I want to make a mistake that I've seen. Anti-terrorism is the government's business. We, the Republican People's Party, with the PKK, with ISIS, with the Republican People's Party...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0077par0539	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0540	We've always told all terrorist organizations that the state should have a firm, decisive, effective fight. In fact, the state does not negotiate with terrorist organisations. There is debate and debate in politics, but the state does not negotiate with terrorist organizations. If you negotiate, you'll legitimize terrorist organizations. But when it suits you, we don't find it right that a political understanding sitting at the table with a terrorist organization, then a sense of the polls, which then indexes the results to the smell of gunpowder, and then terrorises a party that received 6 million votes. If there really are six million terrorists in this country, may this country be blessed and blessed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0078par0541	6 million terrorists...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0542	Guys, we're here to vote for this party...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0079par0544	Go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0545	...a member of the People's Democratic Party will sit on that bench tomorrow. Then the government has invaded terrorists. You're going to say that? That's not gonna happen, bro, come on! I always say that the PKK...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0080par0546	6 million terrorists...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0079par0548	Friends, please... this is Mr. Altay speaking, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0549	When Mithat Sancar sits there tomorrow, there's a terrorist sitting in the Parliament. Are you going to say that?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0080par0550	If he's the chief terrorist... he's the chief terrorist.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0075par0551	Why do you answer, friend, take my word for it? Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0081par0552	He's not answering you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0082par0553	Mr. Altay, address the General Assembly. Guys, please, let's not interrupt.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0083par0555	I'm going to say what I've always said, and I'm going to say it one more time. PKK terrorist organization... PKK terrorist organization...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0084par0556	Come out. He says!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0085par0557	What do you mean, "Come out"? Is every talker called out? Is that even possible?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0086par0558	Folks, this is the deputy chief of the group, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0085par0559	And everyone will be called out here? Every talker, every one of us who talks here, will we be invited out all the time? What kind of a thing is that? Is this a coffee shop?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0086par0560	Guys... Mr. Altay, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0087par0562	I'm actually having this conversation so there's no tension.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0088par0563	He got away, he got away, he got away.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0089par0565	He didn't run...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0090par0566	Why would he run?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0089par0567	What's gonna get away? He's gonna run away from you?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0091par0568	Friends... dear MPs, please don't argue.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0092par0569	There's no mutual debate, he's waving his finger and calling it out!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0089par0570	Why would he run away? Where's he gonna run to?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0091par0572	Friends, may Mr. Altay complete his words, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0093par0573	Yeah, well, I'm just doing this because I predicted that these landscapes would happen in the next conversation anyway.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0094par0574	Baki, it's okay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0095par0575	He ran away, he says. The one who flees from you is worse than you!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0096par0577	Friends... the esteemed members of the group...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0097par0578	Yeah, make some noise while the National Movement Party is talking to the group's vice presidents. That's why I took that promise, Mr. President, because of my concern. It may be common for the PKK to feed on the Kurdish problem, to exploit it, but politics should not be in the interest of political parties not to exploit terrorism, to turn terrorism into a political conclusion. That's what we're saying. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Poor sin, there's a martyr's mother there.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0098par0583	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0097par0584	I just got the numbers. Mr. Secretary, yes, you do; it's true, it's beautiful; the climbs are low. Well, we'd appreciate that, of course, of course, but the martyrs don't go down, they don't. So the houses are getting shot at. Just yesterday, Turkey sent a martyr off. Friends, it's not politics, it's our children who die, it's not politics. I'm giving you this in advance so we don't have to do this. Of course it's politics, we argue, but come, for God's sake, for this country, for this flag, for this state, for this terrorist organization, you're like this, I'm like this... There's a concept called law, even if it's rotten, even if it stinks. Nobody... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] You don't know who's got the money and who's got the faith. You don't know who's a patriot, who's religious, who doesn't have the scale to measure it. Let's get down to brass tacks. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0099par0590	I've got some, not quite. We know all about it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0100par0591	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0101par0592	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0102par0593	Mr. Akçay, wait a minute... Dear Hathimsons, fasting...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0103par0595	There's bullying, and I'd like to answer from the stand.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0102par0596	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0104par0597	Mr. Mehmet and we responded to the bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0102par0598	I'm following you, Mr. Akchay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0105par0599	Let us decide that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0102par0600	Mr. Orator, let's not get into any more trouble.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0105par0603	Dear friends, all the speech of Mr. Mush is the acceptance of the construction of a fascist regime, not the rejection. We've just talked about the constraint, which means we need to turn around and see what the concept of fascism is, so I suggest we look at it. ▪ He said that he found it wrong to keep the stick in the back of the people. The stick on the back of the people... The workers, the workers, the workers, I want my fee. Because he says, "I want my money." He's getting fired, he's getting clubbed, he's getting poked, he's getting pushed around by shields. Every day Turkey faces this view.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0106par0606	Where do you live, Turkey?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0107par0607	Where do you live?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0106par0608	Where did you see it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0108par0609	Where?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0109par0610	If you don't watch TV in Turkey, if you don't go out on the street, it's not my problem, it's your problem.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0110par0611	Guys, let's not talk mutually.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0111par0612	Where do you have it? Illustrate.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0110par0613	I promised one person, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0112par0614	The prison reports are clear. There are reports that people have, that the associations have, that I'm speaking on the basis of those reports. We're not saying what we make from our own heads, we're saying that our eyes can see and the reports are holding. In prisons, people go through torture stalls.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0113par0615	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0112par0616	People get hit because they don't give a standing count. What is this, not torture? What is this, not fascism? When people are hungry and thirsty, let the State of Emergency rise. When TÜSİAD publishes a report, TÜSİAD is called: "We hold the State of Emergency for you. If it were not for the State of Emergency, the workers would go on strike and they would trouble you. You tried to persuade TÜSİAD. It's not fascism, it's what I'm asking you. And stop threatening politicians. We're going to use this chair freely here. Stop threatening us here and in the commissions, in the market, in the market, in the street, and in our rooms.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0114par0619	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0622	Of course, we're discussing the budget of a difficult ministry. When the scales of justice don't weigh right, there's nothing left but a stick to solve the problem. When hospitals have no human working conditions, when they're number 300 in emergency rooms, there's no way to prevent violence at the hospital. If schools are ganged up, if national education policy is a problem, you're only trying to solve it with police measures, but you're not getting anywhere. So, in fact, the burden of all wrong policies is on the Home Office, which I think is the Ministry's greatest misfortune. But what separates a state from another organization, regardless of the circumstances, is to stick to the law, no matter who it is. Dear friends, for the first time in history, the Mothers of Saturday, which Mr. President accepted and claimed would solve their problems by accepting their own problem, were interrupted by the gas, the elderly women were pushed into the streets. I'm going to give a very concrete example, and look, on Monday -- Mr. Secretary -- our co-chair will hold a closed hall meeting in Kars.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0116par0627	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0628	You know what I've been dealing with for two days? He claims that 48 hours ago, he had to get permission for a closed-room meeting. The police at the Security Branch in Kars. In what law does it say, dear friends who were supposed to be allowed 48 hours ago at a closed hall meeting? There's no permit for closed hall meetings in 2911. On top of that, they insist that when the meeting comes, this is what we'll do. No party members will be allowed in. Now, a political party co-chair will hold a hall meeting and you will place a forty-eight-hour leave condition, and you will say, "No one will enter without a member." You will say very clearly: This is a crime against preventing the work of a political party, but Izkünde, Istanbul, Ankara.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0116par0631	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0632	Look, we told you yesterday, again, again, once again, after July 15th, a minister in the Cabinet now, Mr. Colonelrak, has come out, he said, "It's possible that Roboski has a finger in his hand. We thought he really had a new case, that Roboski and I -- 34 people, most children -- had lost their lives in some way; I don't use any other phrase, I say they've lost their lives -- and it's probably because of July 15th, they're going to open the pages again. Now, I don't know if it was an accurate assessment, or if it was just said in the mood of July 15th, but he had a point, because at that time, the commanders of the forces, most of the commanders in the region, are in prison right now because they dropped bombs on this building on July 15th.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0116par0634	Let's complete it, please, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0635	In Cizre, Tyre, Nusaybin, many of you have testified in many places -- in fact, it was possible for civilians to be removed from there before they were killed, and that was accomplished in some cities. This is the property of the local initiative, where the chiefs are located, it's been accomplished in many places, but in some places, the neighborhoods have been destroyed by cannon fire, dear friends. Now, those who chose to fight that day were responsible for the deaths of more than 250 people on the 15th of July, who chose to bomb, who, as I just described, were in charge of their duties. Now, it's bad when you drop a bomb here, but if that's normal, that's racism, discrimination, hatred, that's what it is, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0116par0639	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0640	Finally, Mr. President. I'll give you one last example: In recent years, Ankara Metropolitan Mayor, Bursa Mayor, some district mayors have left their post in İstanbul; some have left crying; others have pretended to, still looking for ways to come back, but if in the city of.96, people have elected the wrong mayor. In fact, they can't choose their own managers, they don't have the right to choose their own managers. That's why there's no law against trustees. Instead, we decide who will rule them. If you say, "It's another thing to Burma," but if you're applying something else to the district of Erzurum, what's it called? But if all the members of parliament are wrong, if the council members can't elect a president of their own, then you're just getting to the point where 6 million of the $6 million are coming into the criminal position.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0117par0644	Let's complete it, please, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0645	And this segregation app, it's very, very clear, although it's impossible to defend different applications to everyone, look, you're still doing polemics through the ditch. Is there a ditch in Erzurum districts, dear friends? The Court issued the 2017 report. The counties are Ağrı, Van, Mardin; corruption figures. Is the Court writing these figures because it is still under control, or is it that even though the mayors of Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) municipalities are in prison, the inspectors have found nothing, and now they are deliberately trying to frame the trustees? You are power, dear friends, here, you will answer, you will not answer to us; we do our own accounting, our own criticism on our platforms.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0118par0649	For the last time, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0115par0650	But if you do something else to us in the mountains, you're singing a peace song here. If you say, "Dear friends, as we sang a peace song in Diyarbakır, we'll say the same thing here. But on that day, when our lawmakers went to Kandil, when our co-chairs were leaving at your request, either by your permission or by your knowledge, if none of this has happened, if so many people have gone there in spite of you, at least don't bring it up. When other parties ask, we understand that we still stand for peace. We still say, "Let's talk before people die." We say, "Let's solve problems. Your deputies are coming out, trying to ask us to account for the error of the solution process." Dear friends, you can't give us Mehter gas here, you'll see this in Diyarbakir.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0119par0653	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0120par0654	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0121par0655	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0120par0657	Thank you, Mr. President. Now, Mr. Altay can make his assessment -- so Mr. Mush and I spoke today -- he tried to say something complicated here, but we haven't heard any assessments of the HDP speakers' talks that have caused tensions here in the process of these budget talks. There's no abuse. This is a terrorist incident. Know your place. He says. Mr. Altay, you should know your place. We are opposed to such a type of bribery, such a thing as terrorism, Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK). After saying, referring to that period of resolution, you, the Republican People's Party, again during the process of resolving a number of Öcalan's demands, proposals to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey as law proposals, parliamentary research motions, Interior Charter proposals.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0122par0661	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0120par0662	What do you say about that? What's the situation today? How do you feel about that? The PYD is not a terrorist organization. They are the party's leader and spokesman. You're the one who said, "Don't enter Afrin." You're the one standing in the way of Turkey's most critical time operations. Why do you take such a bilateral stance on this matter? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0123par0665	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0124par0666	Just a minute, Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0123par0667	I want to talk about bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0124par0668	Okay, okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. Mr. Home Secretary has a request for an explanation. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0672	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a few things I'm gonna have to answer. One of them was indeed Mr. Mehmet Mush about Aysel Tuğluk's mother's funeral. I don't know where the preacher was at that time, but I, for one, took my governor to the cemetery there so that there wouldn't be any provocation from here -- it's not very unusual -- and I came up with an understanding that was overseeing the matter until he was buried by our President's orders. I will explain to the High Council that this does not cause abuse; this is one. Two: But it is true that we did not send HDP MPs to the funerals that we killed as terrorists. Whatever you do, we don't send, we block, whatever you do. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] As for the mothers on Saturday -- you're following the messages of Kandil. Mustafa Karasu, yes, we can't increase the resistance in Turkey if you don't have the Mothers on Saturday. Let no one wait for the government to allow those who want to turn their 700th meeting into a rehearsal for a terrorist organization by exploiting them and exploiting their mothers with dozens and hundreds of other messages like them. [[Applause from EC PARTI and MHP rows, noise from HDP rows]] Two...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0126par0679	You're lying.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0127par0680	Let's not interfere.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0681	I'm not the one who's lying, you're the one who's lying, because I didn't say a word to their mothers on Saturday, I told that PKK terror organization you're a political arm, and I'll tell you that. I called the PKK terror organization, whose political arm you are. Four, you're lying again. Everyone is witnesses at the commission meeting, the MP you mentioned threatened me with a finger waving, and you'll see what happens. We don't care if the PKK threatens the terrorist organization, you threaten it, we don't care what happens, it doesn't matter. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] But I'll tell you something else. I'd expect Mr. Engin Altay to say, "Look, I've talked here -- I'm not sitting here for the first time -- put some distance between you and the DHKP-C," remember? [[Pass him through CHP rows, pass him by, sounds, noise.]] Wait a second, wait a second, let me explain.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0128par0687	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0689	Let me explain, friend, let me explain.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0128par0690	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0129par0691	It's provocation, provocation!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0692	Your vice president has arrived -- I'll tell him your name -- I've tried to explain to him what the issues are, and don't worry very much, we'll explain this to Mr. President, and we'll take the necessary precautions. After that, I'll tell you what happened today. The DHKP-C tried to collapse two or three NGOs under the same NGO's roof that you were with, and we interfered again. The DHKP-C, particularly KESK, calls for their deaths by exposing their photos and names from morning until evening. Now, our demand from the CHP is that in this country, in order to ensure the peace and security of this country, we have no demand from the other side, but we demand that you put a distance between a terrorist organization and a political party and not act with its instructions. This country -- as you say -- is our country, but this legitimacy gives the terrorist organization power, Mr. Altay. If you stand there -- people may have voted with any kind of advice -- if you go back and put a political branch of the terrorist organization under the same roof as the people who voted for that party, that would justify what the terrorist organization did to that political party. This is not the policy of the Republican People's Party; this is not the policy of a political party in Turkey. What happens if that happens, what does it matter to me as Home Secretary? My concern is this: Because if such legitimacy, consciously or unwillingly, is attempted under the roof of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, then our security forces will continue to deal with it again for peace, peace, and stability; it is my concern. And on this occasion, I need to make a statement about trustees because there's something wrong here about trustees.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0130par0696	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0697	We have relieved some of the mayors of the CHP's and the AK PARTY's and the National Movement Party's -- the parties under this roof -- and appointed trustees to those who have a relationship with it. Because the law is clear and clear, trustees are appointed to municipalities with terror. On the other hand, we haven't been able to assign trustees to some municipalities, including Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP), because we didn't take them because they were involved in terrorism; there are one or two municipalities like this, including Kars Kazizman.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0131par0699	We don't have your paper, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0700	I apologize. Here again, there's a town hall, where they chose it themselves and found it on their own. But the trustees are appointed to the terror-related municipalities and run with the trustees.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0132par0701	There's no such thing, there's no such indictment.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0702	This is true of the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK) and that is the same for other terrorist organisations. You said a sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0133par0704	You've appointed trustees to stay in power.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0125par0705	We're going to keep asking the people who support terrorism; there's no other way.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0134par0707	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0135par0708	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0134par0709	I know, just a minute... I'm going in line, and we've already exceeded our daily level of bullying.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0136par0711	I didn't get in, Mayor, I didn't.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0134par0712	Let's wrap this up, I'm looking forward to a little sensitivity from the group's vice presidents. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0715	Now, Mr. President, in fact, I have the right to ask Erkan Bey for a few words from the bench. In the new system, it has no right to tease parties, but in the new system, it has the right to respond to criticism, but it's good, it's good, it's good, Mr. Minister's assessment, that maybe if there's something wrong with the heads, it has to be removed. But I would also ask Mr. Minister: "Ya, Mr. Engin, you counted the PKK, you counted the DAEŞ, you counted the DHKP-C," he said, "Why didn't you count the DHKP-C?"
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0138par0716	No, I didn't say that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0717	How did you come up with the DHKP-C? Since I didn't just count the DHKP-C, it's like you're not putting a distance between you and the DHKP-C.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0138par0718	No, I didn't say no. I've told you once and a half years ago to remind you what it's like to put distance between you and terrorist organizations under the roof of this House.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0719	Well, look, then, Mr. Secretary, there are AK PARTI people in this country who say, "May Allah keep your bullet," and let's say, OK, there are AK PARTI people who say, "Well, let's not let the AK PARTI people kneel in front of you, let's say again."
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0139par0721	You're lying!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0722	Is it a lie or a lie or not? You want me to prove it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0140par0724	Guys, let's not make any noise, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0725	I'll tell you again, no matter where and where this government comes from, you're in the governing body of the state, it's your job to fight terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0140par0727	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0728	It's your job to fight terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0140par0730	But no one can hear my voice, guys, not like this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0731	Remember, you'll remember, you've brought a six-point vague law, vague, like a frame, a flexible frame. You said: "Give us this, and we will end terror." In theory, it was not even in accordance with the legal technique. Didn't we tell you to take it? We did. Since then, I don't want to make politics over blood, over martyrs, but here, now, since then, we've given you that six-point law, take it, we've given it to you. I remember very well the day we called it, I spoke in the name of the party, take it. We even said it was wrong in terms of the law. Since then, Mr. Secretary, that means it's just a matter of security policies... there's a saying for me, and I consider it a duty to remind you once again. I'll find him. I'll read him. It's my word, but sometimes I forget my own. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just open it, it'll be fine.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0141par0735	Okay. Did you find it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0736	I got it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0141par0737	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0738	Mr. Secretary, I think you should never forget that no demand for rights can give terrorism legitimacy or innocence to a terrorist, but no security concern can be based on the power of fundamental rights and freedoms. (Applause from the ranks of CHP) If we're going to fight terrorism, we're going to be in this frame. The terrorist's better, the angry kid, not this one. We know what the DHKP-C (KESK) did to KESK. Whoever's holding a gun... in the shadow of guns, there's no freedom or a cry for peace.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0142par0740	What do you think of the P.D.?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0741	If we want freedom, if we want peace, we must no doubt get rid of the shadow of guns, guns, barrels, but two heads of political parties have been assassinated by terrorist organizations in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0143par0744	Guys, please, this is your group vice president speaking. Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0137par0746	Mr. President Artvin was assassinated by the PKK as part of the operation of the Lone Wolf. Mr. Erdoğan was also assassinated in Marmaris. It wasn't just Erdogan, of course, but I'm asking now: Why would these terrorist organizations want to assassinate the president of the CHP, not to mention the AK PARTY? And in such a painting, connecting CHP to terrorism is indiscriminate in the least. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0144par0749	Mr. President, a word...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0145par0750	Mr. Survivor, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0146par0752	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say something about the funeral of the mother of Aysel Tuğluk. I was at the funeral that day. Mr. Secretary, I was on the delegation he was meeting with the HDP. There was a lynching attempt. It took a long time. It happened under police supervision. Finally, we told the police to stop this mob, we'll bring the funeral out. The cops said it's okay. After we dug up the funeral, we started to leave from the grave, the Minister came. We thought you were sincere in making this negotiation. He went to the police station, he met with Aysel Tuğluk. He said the funeral must be buried again. After he left, he took this picture with the attacker at the police station.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0147par0754	Shame on you, don't lie, it doesn't suit you. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0146par0755	He patted his back, and the ringleader took this picture with the person who co-ordinated that day.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0148par0757	The abuse of the funeral, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, don't do it, There's no abuse of a funeral.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0149par0758	Friends, let whoever I give my word to speak. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0148par0759	Here's the Minister, let's ask him, what did he do?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0149par0760	Here you are, Mr. Survivor.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0150par0761	It's not appropriate to tease a minister, a group of vice presidents, a speaker. For one thing, this government, you need to reach the maturity of this government, all of you, all of you, all of you, from the top to the bottom. Now, if there's going to be talk of a terrorist connection, you're the one who put a July 15 coup on this country, giving it the ground, consider yourself, of course the HDP says. If I were to go and count how many of you are there who have not received the warning, there would be no one to lift your finger. Where were the MIT trucks going? It's a case where you're caught red-handed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0151par0765	Let's finish it, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0150par0766	Why did you send him to serve in the streets when Rakka ISIS had the truck of the city of Iconia? Pay for that, too. At the same time, I want to point out something, Mr. President: Since budget talks started, every time we take the stand, it's called the PKK (PK); take out the minutes, the title most mentioned in the budget talks is the PKK (PK). Whether you do it on purpose or not, it means the PKK is branding it. While we were critical of the woman's problem, there were speakers of the AKP (AKP) who showed Murat Karayilan's picture to all Turkey. So it's a problem, it's a problem; I'm saying you can turn on the democracy channels and block that mountain path. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0152par0770	Anything else, fellas? I'm just checking to see if the credit card's maxed out, and then we'll move on. Any demands? Mr. Mush, do you have one? No.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0772	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0152par0773	Mr. Alekalioglu, can we take a break later?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0774	Don't let the heat get in the way, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0152par0775	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0777	Now, it's normal to argue about the country's most netative issue when we're discussing the ministry's budget, which has paid the highest cost to intervene in this business. What makes this job more problematic is that, in democracies, there's actually a change in power after all this buildup that could put the fight on our political record as a mistake. I mean, we're all arguing because there's something missing in this political, military operations process that we've approved so much today, that we've supported until the end, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last, to the last. THE AK PARTY -- we like it, we don't like it; we can discuss it -- it's the will he's made to strengthen terror, and it's brought us to this day. Now he's come to a place other than the political coordinates of that day so that the heavy price we're paying won't cost the state, the nation more.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0152par0779	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0780	In fact, it should have been said that if the AK PARTI had carried on the process of handing over the political initiative to the administration of the government, preferably, we would have said, "Misalen, what you did that day was wrong." The people gave us authority, and today we are met. Now, in this business, it's actually an expression of the state's domain, or something called the strategy of fighting. The point is, what we ask our friends to pay special attention to the process is that if you take back our friends who say the opposite of what they're saying today at least -- the ones who say the opposite of what you're saying today -- if we can get back to what they didn't say earlier today, we can talk more freely about it. Because it reminds you of the HDP people who told you the opposite three years ago.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0152par0782	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0783	I'm completing it. So we can't end this discussion now because you've been dealing with the system here in Diyarbakir, because the Ministry of the Interior is trying to close the cost of years when the work you strategically stooped to in advance for terrorism comes in order to end terrorism. Now, we're supportive and everything, but...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0154par0785	What advance?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0786	That's an advance.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0154par0787	What advance?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0788	The process, which you call a negotiation, has turned into this: "If we hadn't fought with arms, we wouldn't have been able to sit at this table. This is why there's trouble in the field. So at least this is what we ask: Here are our friends, who called Kobani the second Stalingrad, who are talking here today, talking on the stand, looking. Hüseyin Bey, for example, said: "Stalingrad II." On TVs, we are concerned today in the Parliament that it should not be called Mr. Ocalan. The word "Ecalan" was spoken from the top of the state.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0154par0790	What are you trying to do?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0791	I'm completing it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0155par0792	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0793	Mr. Mehmet says he's right, today's Kandil is right, but the state protocols have been sent to Kandil. The state's official channels have been sent. Our newspapers, our newspapers, our friends who wrote honors from their pens when they were writing victims on February 28th. We've heard the words of Turkey not being called Turkey with our ears. T.C. The signs are in Bayburtt. Look, I'm talking about Bayburt. It's the university's T.C. They took out the staff of my friends who worked there because you showed sensitivity to the sign. So when you come from there to here, it really makes you wonder. I'm not saying this because what we're doing today is true, we should always have the will to do what we're doing today, right, but at least in order to pay attention to the negotiating process, friends, no matter how many sentences you have to say in this matter, let it be sworn, we both have the intention and the intention of saying it as a nation and as a nation. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So believe me, we won't spare you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0156par0797	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0798	I'm ending it, Mr. President. We're going to say every sentence you intend to say, every sentence our ruling group intends to say, a thousand times as much. But at least let's do this: let's divide the mission, so at your request, a little embarrassment, and let's make sure you don't get embarrassed. I mean, we'll get a part out of you in this, we'll be brothers, we'll pull your weight.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0157par0801	Throw the burden to Yavuz. From now on, Mr. Mush. Mr. Mush, give the responsibility to Yavuz.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0153par0802	Me, too.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0803	Mr. President, I have a brief request.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0159par0804	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0806	Mr. President, I'd like to make a few points here. We've never used the slightest statement about our citizens here. Unfortunately, what we say, what we say to the Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), is being interpreted as if we were telling citizens in the Republic of Turkey because of the political preferences of citizens, which is a false comment. Explain your own policies, friends, what is your opinion of terrorism? What are you going to do? If there's a problem, go ahead and explain your prescription. Let's see how you figure it out. So take what we say and don't terrorize 6 million people, don't tell them that. We're not terrorizing anyone, the voters. One party counts three, four terrorist organizations here, not even remembering the PKK, not even counting. So, now, don't we have anything to say to that? Please, everyone use your words carefully.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0159par0807	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0808	It's very clear who's exploiting terrorism, Mr. President. We're fighting terrorism. Look, we're in the past...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0159par0810	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0811	There are now some reminders being made here. Here's what happened in the past, what happened in the past; state protocols have been sent. The state protocol is not being sent anywhere. AK PARTY is an effective fight against terrorism. We will now provide a reminder from some of the statements made in the past, and then we will support it. Please read the statements made by your Vice President in charge of Political and Legal Affairs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0812	Okay, please read it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0813	Don't let me read it to you from here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0814	No, read it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0815	Open it, read it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0816	Read it, please!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0817	Now, he's reminding us of the past, Mr. Sekialioglu. Yeah, there's a struggle here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0818	Mr. Mehmet...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0819	We've done everything we can in Turkey to get the terrorism out of the way.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0820	They took the gun the government left on the table at that time, and they shot us.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0821	The solution process was also a step in the effective fight against the PKK. If you want an explanation, you'll have to share them here with the public one day, so I won't remind you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0822	We'll talk, we'll talk!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0823	Another, Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0824	They shot our kids with the gun you left on the table.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0825	...is a terrorist organization, a net, undisputed terrorist organization, which has hit him with the biggest blow...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0160par0826	The ones who shot the kids, let's see how they talk.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0827	...from the borders of Turkey, from within Syria, the state of the Republic of Turkey, the AK PARTY, and I advise that it should be well known. Another, there's no point in doing that. I'll get it for you in a minute, I'll show you. Sir, the Konya Municipality's vehicles have been found in Rakka. • Ya, my friends, have made a statement about this, and it has been made very clear that this is a photoshop.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0161par0830	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0158par0831	But what I'm going to show you here, for example, is that some of the municipalities that you've won have their logo glued to the same truck at some point; see how it's done. So through lies, a perception of what's not true... The AK PARTI is the state of the Republic of Turkey, and the state of the Republic of Turkey that has done the same to the PKK. That's our official opinion and policy, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0162par0834	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit01spe0163par0835	Guys, I'm gonna take a ten-minute break from the merger, and I'd like to talk to the group's deputy presidents, and I'd like to talk to you, too.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0163par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue talks on the 2019 Central Management Budget Law Proposal and the 2017 Central Management Act. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. We stayed in talks on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group. The order belongs to Müsh MP Mensur Light. Here you go, Mr. Light. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0164par0064	Thank you, Mr. President. I have taken a pledge on the budgets of the central management budget of 2019 -- the Ministry of Interior, Police General Directorate, the Coast Guard Command and the General Command of the Gendarme. I salute you and the General Assembly. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Leyla Güven, have been on hunger strike in Diyarbakır (Amed), which has been selected today as the will of Hakkari (Hakkari) for thirty-nine days. For thirty-nine days, I'm afraid there hasn't been a single word from this House. Layla Güven is a chosen MP just like you and represents the legitimate public will as much as you do. I am ashamed of the fact that parliament has never made a sound for our friend, Leila Güven, and frankly, I must make it very clear. The action of our friend Layla Güven, as it is known, was the removal of the lockdown on Mr. Ocalan, on Imralı Island, and the demand for the AKP's power to be restored to a solution and dialogue talk with the state's mind three years ago, which, for all Turkish peoples, is an act for the benefit of all Turkish peoples, in fact, a goal. In this respect, we send our greetings and respects to our friend, Leila Trust, once again, and once again declare that we are behind his action. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, this war budget is also an authoritarian regime budget. The most obvious example of a budget having a war budget is, of course, coming from the data in its budget. The most important data and documentation on the triggering effect of wars, the economic crisis, as we call it, are budgets. Now, we can uncover the data that this budget is a war budget and an authoritarian budget in this way: defense and security. I'd like to give you two examples for that, actually. The budgets for defence and security institutions such as the National Intelligence Service, the National Defence Ministry, the Brigadier General Command, the Security Directorate, the Coast Guard Command increased to 84.5 billion in 2018, when the budget was approximately 64 billion in 2017. Now the budget for health and education is unfortunately less than 20 billion. So the difference in the budget for defense and security over a year is 20 billion, and that's 20 billion more than the budget for education and health, I'm afraid. And that's exactly what needs to be done, is to get out of this economic and political crisis. The method of this, as I have just stated, is to give voice to Mr. Leyla Güven, to claim his demands. Well, dear friends, dear lawmakers, what should we do? In fact, Congress is very different from what it should be doing. Today, unfortunately, the House has been transformed into a condolence tent by lawmakers. Dear friends, dear lawmakers, these people didn't send you to sit in these gazelle-skin seats and pay condolences to the public. The people said to you, "Go out there and solve my problems. No one says to you that I give you my young seedlings. Take them to Gabar, Judi, Afrin, and kill them at Cudi, and then come sit down in the seats of the gazelles in the council and give them condolences." He does not send his children, and send them away to find a solution to them. Likewise, two days ago, there was a train accident, unfortunately, a terrible accident. That's the same thing with Mr. Secretary. He's here to pay his respects. It's the public's responsibility to answer first. Who's responsible for this, he'll have to answer for it. But unfortunately, Congress is out of the picture. Dear friends, the esteemed MPs, Süleyman Demirel, when he was President, made a determination regarding the PKK's problem, said: "They have rebelled 28 times so far, and the state has done what it needed to do. For the 29th time -- the PKK is also the 29th rebellion -- we will do whatever it takes as a state. He said, and they did it. What did they do? In a speech he made when he was Minister of Yıldırım Transport, he mentioned that the cost of the war was approximately $1 trillion. After twenty-five years, we lost 40,000 people, but the PKK member mentioned that we lost 40,000 of our people regardless of military or police distinctions, and he also talked about the enormous cost of it. Like 200 Bosphorus Bridges, 120 Ataturk Dams, 450km divided roads, et cetera, et cetera. After talking about this kind of financial damage, the government did this after seeing it, and he said, "We can't actually solve this issue this way. Government officials, AKP, and Erdogan's approach to the process has changed in this way. After all these losses, we no longer have the patience for the young, the young, the lambs to fade away, we have no patience for mourning. We have no more patience for the tears of the mothers, for the suffering of the child. He said, Prime Minister Erdogan, August 11, 2009. ▪ We want ideas, not weapons, but politics. War is easy, peace is hard. We are the suitors of the difficult one. At this time, the Imran are taking steps to respond to our expectations. • Prime Minister Erdogan, February 1, 2013. Dear friends, this way we can extend the government's rhetoric at that time, but while the Minister is here, it's going to have to mention the conversation he had at one time, and it's a really great talk, and you should congratulate him from here. He says, Mr. Minister, that he should face Turkey's past: I said it in Kopeli, Tripoli, Aydın, Ülkü January; I say it in Batman, Mardin.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0165par0076	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0164par0077	The question of Turkey, Sheikh Sait, the issue of the Istrillal courts, the thing that I know of in the 21st century, until I face what happened in Sivas and Madimak, is that it is my opinion that it is difficult to capture modernisation, prosperity, democratisation, freedom. I think Turkey has three basic problems, three problems beyond the Constitutional issue. These are the Kurdish issue, the issue of the Alevis, and the third is the woman's gender problem. Along with these, the religious and the villagers have problems, he says. I think from here, Mr. Minister, once again the power should be focused on this problem, and unless it bends in that direction, the solution to the problem is not possible. And I want to end with a little addition here. Look, my dear friends, wars in world countries, geography, or nations, such as the Kurdish issue, have lasted forty-five years in Colombia, thirty-five years in Ireland, forty years in the Philippines, twenty-nine years in Indonesia, twenty-nine years in Guatemala. The negotiations have finally been resolved around here. In some places, the negotiations lasted two years and in some places twenty-seven years. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Once again, I say to the General Assembly and to our people, we have no other way, no way, no way, no way. Sooner or later, the negotiations we're going to have are peace and negotiations that are going to win. Once again, I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0166par0082	Now, it's time for Istanbul MP Zeynel Özen. Here you go, Mr. Caress. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0086	Dear President, dear MPs, I have received a pledge on behalf of the HDP concerning the Immigration Administration. I'm going to talk about internal immigration and foreign immigration. These migrations are caused by unemployment, poverty, and slaughter. In this recent history, there are some of them: Sivas, the Prime Minister, Çorum, Veterans, prisons, Roboski massacres. Dear friends, before 1980, the state was unmanageable. In particular, the IMF was unable to implement the January 24th decisions that the imperialists and rulers wanted because the working class and democratic opposition were strong. In order for this program to be implemented, preparations have been made for the fascist dictatorship of September 12th. For that, internal conflicts were fueled, and the Alevis were chosen as victims. In our recent history, between December 19th and December 26th, the Maraş massacred, the Left and Alevi were massacred. We know how these preparations are made. In particular, we know about the meetings that American Ambassador Alexander Pack, the First Secretary, held with right-wing parties in Maraş, fascist groups, businessmen. At the Edem Oil Factory, we also know that the decision was made to rid Marashan of Alevis and leftists. And the process has begun. On April 4, 1978, our 80 - year - old grandfather was first murdered by combing a coffee shop. On April 7, Ali Çeviker, a super captain, delivered weapons and bombs to Maraş. On these bombs, notice, which mosque was to be thrown into, which imam was to be thrown into, which party to be thrown into.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0168par0090	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0091	The conditions of the massacre of MIT, countererilla, and civilian fascists were ready. On December 19th, a voice bomb was dropped on a movie theater brought by the archipelago. On December 20th, the White House, where leftists and Alevis continued, was bombed and scanned. 2 of our teachers, Haci Çolak and Mustafa Captainoglu were murdered on December 21st. On December 22nd, the funerals were consciously held at prayer on Friday by Cetin Diker, and the two communities faced each other. And everything was ready. It was written all over the place of war for God, and you see these pictures, these pictures were hung at every workplace. The massacre started on December 23rd. 111 dead, hundreds wounded, but that's the official record. We know that these dead are more likely to die in this massacre because there are still families who don't know the consequences of their funerals. My dear friends, this is the picture of Fidan Suna, who was murdered with his baby. This is the 18-month-old baby of Ercan Köse. A picture of Bese and Esma, the child that was gutted by the pregnant woman, is a picture of that fetus. The picture of 11-year-old Ali Shavet, whose arms and legs were cut off and boiled to death in the boiler, and the ones that were carried in the back of the truck. My fellow lawmakers, this year we shall go again to Marash, and remember Marash. We'll say our prayers for our martyrs and read our roses. I'm asking the power to do this: Every year, Marash is blockaded, and we are prevented from going to our place of worship. As those who went to the mosque for worship were not prevented... today I say -- I also call on the Marash MPs -- here I am calling on the Marasians -- the bloodiest massacre of our history, the most brutal massacre of our time, let's all go and curse this massacre together. I also honor my comrade Mehmet Mengücek, who saved that neighborhood in Karamarash. On the other hand, every time our speakers come out, it's the work of the outside forces. There are 804 defendants in this 1,300-page indictment. These are locals and nationals, you should know that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0169par0096	What's that got to do with anything?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0097	Other than that, 804 defendants were tried in that case. 23 of them were sentenced to death, 321 were sentenced to one to 24 years, but all were left with the pardon of 1991. One of them, his first defendant, was elected to the Human Rights Commission in this National Assembly. Let's face our history together. To investigate the background of these massacres in particular, to expose them, to punish the original killers, the House must take office. I also know in that indictment that 68 defendants, none of the key defendants have been arrested and none of them have been brought to trial, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0169par0098	Let us also ask for the heads of the chiefs, the chiefs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0099	Yes, I counted the chiefs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0170par0100	What does that have to do with anything? You're running a massacre?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0171par0101	You mean your massacre, our massacre? Shame!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0102	Guys, slaughters don't count now. A massacre is a crime of humanity. You have to accept that, you have to do what you have to do.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0172par0103	Tell me about the martyrs, the martyrs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0104	Therefore, on this 22nd December, we will go again to Marash, and do not give us the same days. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Do not prevent us from going to our place of worship.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0173par0107	Who's taking it off?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0167par0108	Take security measures. Come on in. Come on in. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0174par0111	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0175par0112	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0176par0113	Mr. Bostanci, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0175par0116	Mr. President, thank you. We agree with the speaker's statement that the capital is a crime of humanity. It is the duty of men to appeal to all kinds of massacres and to fight against them on a human basis, and it is the legal and fundamental duty of states. When I was reviewing the Maraş events, I think the speaker meant people from inside -- it's called external forces -- people from the inside were involved here. But the concept of national and domestic could also be very provocative in another context. I guess I'm just making a tweaking that's appropriate. The Maraş incident was a provocation. It's a very dramatic series of events, Sivas events that have happened historically. He made a public opinion as to why these provocations were done before September 12th. A commission was set up in parliament as the coups were being investigated.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0177par0120	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0175par0121	I served as president of the 12th of September Commission at that time. We've seen that there are attempts to legitimize the coup, we've seen in these studies. But the point is, can we just say "provocation" and get out? We can't. People shouldn't be provoked either. It is important that both the Alevis and the Sunnis, or those involved in other types of politics, are undoubtedly distant against their provocations through their important, valuable and common symbols, and that legitimate politics is the task of pointing to provocation, while on the one hand building the atmosphere that allows the public not to be provoked; this is very important.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0177par0123	Mr. Bostanci, one last minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0175par0124	Finally, I'd like to say that I don't think it's appropriate to re-enact those painful scenes from the podium, to show those photos, to object to the human condition of the past. I'm not saying it's a cover-up, but it's very accurate, and it's not appropriate, as a form of communication.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0178par0125	Who asked you?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0175par0126	Against the killings of Maraş, the massacres of Çorum, and all sorts of massacres in this country, the state tried to do its due at that time, and today its duty, of course, is to do its utmost to the state, and to the public, to the Alevi, and to the Sunni, to do its best to ensure that the situation of provocation is not born. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0179par0128	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0129	Mr. President, the speaker just told the Marass MPs on the stand...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0130	Wait... what are you talking about, Mr. Oztunç?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0131	I'm telling you, Mr. President. Mr. orator, I've just been on the stand calling the MPs of Marash. As acting heromarash MP, I'd like to explain my thoughts about both the gentleman's summons and the heroic marquee events, one minute from my position.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0133	Friends, according to 60...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0134	According to 60, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0135	I'm not going to make any promises to our friends today.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0136	Mr. President, that's not gonna happen. I'm the Deputy Heromarash, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0137	To our group presidents, we just need to...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0138	There's talk of the Maraş massacre, and there's talk of the Maraş massacre. If you want to shut him up, just say so.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0139	Where did that come from? Is that what that means?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0140	Then you have to make a promise, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0141	It's a matter of my appreciation, no promises, my friends.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0142	Mr. President, look...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0143	We're continuing our meeting.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0144	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0145	Now, Smyrna MP...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0182par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0147	Mr. President, look, I'm an MP in a county.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0148	Mr. Oztunç, I've given my opinion. What do you want?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0149	Mr. President, I'm an MP in a county, and there's talk of an incident in my knowledge.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0150	I promise I won't.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0151	You can't do that, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0152	How could I not!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0153	You can't, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0154	I have done it, and it has been done, and I do not make promises according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0155	I'll let you know, Mr. President, I'll make it very difficult for you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0156	Please... that's not gonna happen!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0157	I'll narrow it down.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0158	I promise only to the members of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0159	Come on, move it, you'll see, I'll give you a hard time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0160	We talked about them inside, too, guys.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0161	You don't have that right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0183par0162	I do.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0163	Here's the way we do it...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0164	You can't do that to an elected congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0181par0165	...2+1, we had a situation like this. With that relationship, I promise.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0166	It's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0184par0167	Don't scream, don't scream, sit down!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0168	It's a shame! It's a shame, you guys!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0185par0169	He's got a point, he's got a point; come find out and find out.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0186par0170	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0180par0171	You're always making small talk, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0186par0172	I can't quite hear you, but I hope there's nothing in the discipline that requires our intervention.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0187par0173	He invites you to the Civil Code, Mr. President, Mr. Ali.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0188par0174	He invites you to act according to the Civil Code, and you cannot ignore a recognised right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0186par0175	Please... Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0189par0178	Thank you, Mr. President. I just listened carefully to the speaker on the stand and watched. He expressed his own views, that's a separate bet, but we have an objection. It's provocative to display pictures of all three crescents from there, and it's despicable.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0190par0181	Should we just ignore it? Should we just ignore it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0189par0182	It's important that in 1979, those massacres, civil war rehearsals, and provocations that have afflicted our nation in that Maras. We have come from very painful experiences to this day. When I was an 18-year-old college student in 1979, I was carefully involved with the press and...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0184	Here you go, Mr. Akçay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0192par0185	It's not the press, it's where we watched it from.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0193par0186	Don't do that! There's a lot of killing!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0187	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0193par0188	That's what you keep saying!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0189	Folks, this is your group vice president speaking.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0193par0190	The chieftains are a massacre!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0191	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0194par0192	First of all, we ask the grace of God to all our citizens who have lost their lives in those events. He suffered a lot of pain, a lot of fires went out, and it was an assassination against our country, a civil war, and the effort to get people to break into each other, and in those cases, people from every social structure have lost their lives, let's not forget that. Second: Again, my memory is clear and clear that on April 22, 1979, our president at the time...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0195	One minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0194par0196	...Our Prime Minister, Alparslan Türkesh, who made his predictions on the conspiracy of those events in both the report and verbally, the late President of the time, the late Fahri Korutrk, and Mr. late Ecevit, who ruled the state at the time of that time, as well as Hasan Fehmi Sun, who was Minister of Internal Affairs during the Maraş events, and the views of Irfan Öza Aylılı, who did so, as well as the explanations and writings of the late Fahri Köturturturkkk, and as the first deceased Ecevit who ruled the state at that time, reveal the construction of the great, low and treacherous ambushes. This orator must have felt a part of what happened, which means that the same divisive, provocative mentality continues on this bench, and I see its clues. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0199	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. There are five groups of political parties in this parliament, if I'm not mistaken, and four representatives of the non-group party. Now, the EC PARTY itself, like a conditional reflex, every speaker who speaks outside the AK PARTI may have the habit of going over their speech and making an evaluation, and we can place it in Parliament as a rule, but we want the same evaluations. So unless there's bullying, outside of 69, after every speech of the 1st party... you'll like it, you won't like it, he says what he thinks. After all, we can't all do one kind of politics. Like I said, if there's five groups, there's five different ideas, five opposite ideas. There are things that these five opposing ideas agree on: patriotism, state, flag, people; there's no problem here. Mr. Bostanci felt the need for a self-evaluating assessment because of the fact that domesticity, nationality, which is the subject of a very deep debate -- which is nice, which is how domestic, and how national -- was the subject of a very profound debate -- because he was using it more as Mr. Erdogan. I'll need an evaluation, then... it'll never end. I don't think we should let that happen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0191par0204	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0205	Of course there's teasing, this happens, we answer, but you have to say something in terms of your attitude. I don't see why a few pictures of the events of the Maras massacre make us jump. Each year, five of our party's deputies go to the massacre of the heads of the chiefs, and they come, and they evaluate the massacre of the heads of the chiefs in parliament, and the picture has been shown. As a matter of fact, Roboski, the Uludere massacre is due. Well, leave it alone. Don't you guys show up here on the anniversary of July 15th, with those bombs on July 15th?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0196par0207	We sang a picture.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0208	No, no, I don't know, I don't understand.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0197par0209	Sir, it shows the emblem of the National Movement Party, not any pictures.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0210	I didn't say you, I didn't say... there's a disturbance here, there's a disturbance here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0198par0211	Mr. President, I'm the one who object to the painting, but I only object to one painting.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0199par0212	Mr. Akçay, please complete Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0213	No, I don't know that. Now, therefore... And, Mr. President, in terms of your attitude, let's end this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0200par0217	Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0195par0218	Mr. Zeynel Beyin, a citizen outside listening to our HDP Group's speech will then think that if necessary, I will ask for a word on behalf of our group. I'm calling on the Marash MPs. He said, "I'm the one who's watching the Assembly on TV now -- in my name, in the name of our group -- that our Maras MP is in a state of insensitivity to the Maraş events." So I would like to make an assessment that Ali Öztunç will be exposed to an injustice if you don't promise Ali Öztunç for a minute. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0200par0220	Mr. Altay, I followed the conversation carefully. The call was an invitation to the Maraş MPs regarding a program in Maraş, on December 22nd, but other than that, it was not an invitation to comment. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0201par0223	Mr. President, first of all, of course, removing the context of the speech on the stand is an unnecessary strain. Of course, provocations are made to prepare camp, tension, conflict with some symbols. There's no speech flow here that points to a party or a symbol in the past; on the contrary, it's a speech that points to that, through the symbols that were hung on the walls on Friday, it's the basis of provocation. The other dimension is that there are two ways that all human beings have found common about remembering pain so far: one is repairr justice, the other is confrontation. Remembering pain isn't about competing pain, it's not about reviving anger, it's not about reviving hate, it's about not making similar mistakes again. In the history of this country, one of the most common, then accepted by public officials -- on a much larger scale -- and perhaps the most critical event is the events of September 6-7.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0200par0226	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0201par0227	The claim that Ataturk had been burned down in Thessaloniki has spread in Istanbul, a newspaper has made news, where the Romanians, Armenians, their businesses, their homes have been burned down, their homes have been harassed, looted, and the history of September 6th has been a black mark on Turkey. It is important, of course, to develop a will to face these events and not repeat them. Mr. President, the civil war in Yugoslavia resulted in three people, three communities, killing, raping the neighbor after a while, doing all sorts of heavy torture in the camps. Different identities and cultures live together in this land. Therefore, this invitation does not really intend to turn it into propaganda, but it does have a feeling that no matter what party it comes from, let us remember, remember, and not repeat it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0202par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0203par0230	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0202par0232	Now, especially at that time, all over Turkey, in its cities, in its towns, in its villages -- our old friends will remember it very well -- some of the symbols of every political party or of some ideological groups, such as their emblems, were written on the walls, on the streets. That's not what we're focusing on, the speaker's evaluations and so on. He's trying to do a lot of, like, fine work there. So why don't you show me that photo and show me the other pictures? I took this reaction because I found it meaningful and implied, and that's why I did it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0203par0234	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0202par0235	And a total of 110 people lost their lives in those events, and as I said, people from every social or political community, every social structure, unfortunately, have died terribly. I repeat, months before the events occurred, our Prime Minister Alparslan Türkeş is the one who warned the state officials to take the necessary measures, and the result of those warnings was confirmed by Hasan Fehmi, who is alive today, and the Minister of Interior of the day, Irfan Özadül, who, unfortunately, confirmed these predictions after the events occurred. Don't keep them out of sight. There have been massacres of the chiefs, unfortunately, in our country, in different places... With these events, let's not forget them.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0203par0237	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0204par0239	Yes, thank you. Mr. President, look -- we've just stated -- that during the Sur incident, the soldiers and police, who are now in most prisons, were making three crescent symbols in people's bedrooms with lipstick on the 15th of July. Now, is that low or not? It's a provocation that he's doing this... maybe he's doing it to bring society face-to-face. We have to condemn them. Look, I'll give you another example, and if you listen, I'll give you another example. Even the people who were tried for the nationalist movement, the nationalist movement, even the people in prisons were so heavily imposed that even the people who entered the prison with the most nationalistic emotions came out of prison on September 12th with a sense of anger and hatred against those symbols. Now, to condemn these acts, to be against them, to ask for them not to be repeated, I think it's a sentiment, friends, or it's not something that's done to wake up anger, hate. No matter what symbol it's for and who it's made by, it's obviously intended to bring those who care about those symbols face-to-face.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0244	Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0206par0245	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0246	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, we can't continue these negotiations. If this continues, please, I expect understanding; one.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0206par0247	Yeah, but there's nothing to do.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0248	Second of all, let's do something like this, look...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0206par0249	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0250	Mr. Akçay, I will. Let's do one thing, it's understandable that there's talk for groups. If requested, this conversation can be made as a whole for 60 minutes, 70 minutes, and can be divided into two minutes. So, at this point, it seems more reasonable to me: once the groups have completed their talks, let's consider if our group presidents have any demands. Even if it's been three minutes after each speaker, five groups are 15 minutes when we promise our vice president, not a total one. So, if we spend half an hour negotiating after every conversation, we can't finish this tonight.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0207par0253	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0254	Wait a minute, Mr. Caress, wait a minute. So, I beg you, please, we're talking about the budget, the budget of our three ministries right now. Yes, there may be objections due to bullying, but let's make a reasonable assessment of them; let's not bring new explanations to a point where different issues are discussed here, where they're discussed. Your Highness, I'll give you my word. Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0208par0259	Now, a number of provocative events mentioned by Mr. Bilgen have already been severely rejected by our party. Our party has shown extreme sensitivity to such provocative activities. Now, it's one thing to talk about it, but it's another to respect and understand the context of our objection. So there's no point in dragging this out any further. Our country has been dealing with the low-life massacres, provocations of the PKK terror organization for decades, and unfortunately we know very well those who, one day or another, do not have a word against these events.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0205par0260	Friends, all this discussion here was about the speech of Mr. Özen. I'll make him a promise. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0209par0263	My dear President, I didn't show those pictures to accuse anyone, but it's a fact that all I'm talking about is in this indictment, the pictures taken that day. I've never accused a group. If it's a provocation, if they don't accept it, they'll give it its criticism, its self-criticism.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0210par0264	The expression "criticism" is wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0209par0265	When I said Indian and national, I said this in the first place, it was a play by the imperialist forces to create September 12th and to make it clear that none of the names in the indictment were foreign names, that they were all citizens of our Republic of Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0211par0266	What are we supposed to do, bring the Fatsa indictment, bring the five teachers who were killed in Adana, and bring the six workers who were killed in Istanbul?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0212par0267	Mr. Enginyurt, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0209par0268	Dear President, I'm not accusing anyone.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0212par0269	Okay, okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0213par0270	Should we turn Turkey back to 1980? That's enough! We say enough, we say let go, let go, let go, and let God have mercy on those who die. We're telling you why you're making such a big deal out of this fight, God rest your soul.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0212par0271	Mr. Enginyurt, my friends...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0214par0272	Yeah, don't bother, why bother? 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0215par0328	On behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, İzmir MP Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpegü. Here you are, Mr. Kamalbay. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0216par0332	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 39th day of the hunger strike, I would like to start by respectfully saluting our Hakkari MP, Leyla Güven, Dear Selahattin Demirtaş, Dear Gültan Kışanak, and all our fellow prisoners. We're going to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. As dear Emotion Asena said, the woman's name was not in the budget, but they named her. Dear friends, the concept of family is being used today as a cover for eliminating women's rights. Segregation on women, violence, inequality, wants to hide behind family walls. Besides, it's a bag of departments. Where do we keep the prisoner? If you don't want to do a job, then you make a soup like this, that's exactly what happened. There should be at least three ministries, but there's only one ministry here. The ministers aren't even members of this House. They sit here under the guise of superiority, but they're not responsible to the people, they're responsible to the President. Some were taken from the conglomerate and brought here; they had hospitals; they became Minister of Health; they had tourism companies; they became Minister of Tourism. That's what you call running the country like a company. Like I said, where do we get the prisoner? Dear friends, women get violent in homes, you know, on the street. At the police station, at the prosecutor's office, at the court, men's violence is either pardoned in some way, ignored, or rewarded for good behavior reductions, without punishment is the crown. In working life, we can't handle women's problems independently. You're constantly saying that women's employment will be increased in strategy plans. I'd like to ask you why you couldn't raise it, Mr. Secretary. There's a hedge fund in the world called women's employment projects, and there's a lot of money in the world, but we're still in the numbers in 1999. There is no connection between spending funds and permanent employment. The same incompatibility is also available in ISKUR vocational training courses, where you transfer the money of the world. You transfer your workers' unemployment fund to banks and bosses. Like the AKP's election fund, you use the unemployment fund in an arbitrary way, except for its purpose. You transferred 12 billion from the unemployment fund to public banks. What right did you have, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you. During the year 2018, only $26 of every $100 spent from the fund was spent as an unemployment allowance. Your share to employers in July alone, that's, that's the share you gave the workers during the year 2018. Go out and tell us how much you've increased employment as a result of these incentives. Look, this is the unemployment table. Unemployment has already exceeded single digits, and look, the unemployment of young women outside of agriculture has reached 25.6 per cent. Would you like to look at the unemployment benefit before and after the election decision was made on June 24th? Look, the Society benefit program has been indexed in the election, so I'd like to show you his painting. This is the share before the election, this is the share after the election. Women's unemployment increases day by day, and the intensity of women working for free off-the-books shows that the funds are being used outside the scope of the funds. If you're sincere about putting women into employment, then the brightest thing you can do is to take funds out of the budget for maintenance work, split a share. Don't you know that you can't increase women's employment in every factory, every workplace, every neighborhood, every man or woman, without public day care centers, without opening? Of course you do, but that's not how you want to use budget savings, you're saving the budget for the bosses, not for the women and children; it's a choice. With all due respect, you can't carry out a strategy plan if women are going to join the job like this. You've earned rights from pension to daycare, from union freedoms to strikes, to workers who have been fighting for a hundred years. In the name of Social Security Reform, you and your predecessor have increased the age of retirement, brought retirement to the grave. That's how you ignore earned rights. For example, those living in retirement did not get caught in age, but they got caught in the AKP and the MHP. It is also an important decision to give people their rights, to improve pensioners' wages, and to fight unemployment. The pensions of the AKP's Social Security Reform and the realisation of pensions are a reason for pensions to work. Look, in this painting, they're pensioners, they're pensioners, they're retired people who don't work. As you can see, pensioners don't get along with the fees you pay, so they have to work. You boast of being the world's 17th largest economy. You brag about building bridges, tunnels, airports in the middle of nowhere, double roads, city hospitals. You give each of them car insurance, patient guarantees through euros, but no day care, no money for senior care, no money for pensioners, no money for pensioners, no workers, no jobs, no money for women, no money for the young, no money for the disabled. You're always patronizing yourself with numbers, but the people's rights are too much for you. No one can speak of a life of prosperity, safety, future, justice. Dear friends, look, at least 21,000 workers died working in 16 years. Why haven't you done anything to stop these job murders all these years? Because business killings are a political issue. With your strategic labour force policy, you're constantly minimizing the share of the labor to local and international monopolyes as much as you're pursuing the efforts of our people. In your power, it's not just the sweat of the brow, but unfortunately, the lives of the workers are being sacrificed to capital. You have always been on the side of wealth and profit, and you have pursued the growth of our souls which you boast about, and you are guilty. That's why, when the third airport workers object to the job murder, the bad working conditions, you don't go to the workers, you send them your gendarmes, you blockade them, you cover up the company's crimes. Because of that, one child worker was burned in a bed factory in Burma in 2005, five pregnant women were burned in the factory factory, and the factory owner was fined 183 lira. You know, that burning factory had insurance, but the workers didn't have insurance. As such, the trial, which lasted many years in the explosion of the Maytap factory in Davutpaşa, has been settled, while the Supreme Court in these days has broken its decision to ensure punishment. The conscience and justice of the families of workers were banned, just as on their mother's watch on Saturday, and they cannot go to Galatasaray Square. I'd like to ask: where were you at the third airport when the workers died in the job murder, while their lifeless bodies were being dug out of the manhole? For example, why didn't you visit the site, Mr. Secretary? So I asked, a lot of friends here asked, we made a motion, why didn't you answer us? You also know that there is no law, no law, no law, no law, and tens of thousands of workers are witnesses to this at an IGA site in the appearance of a concentration camp, and in most advocacy. The third airport workers have acted many times, and have died many times; not once have you wondered. If you had gone, you could have prevented the next job killings; 52 workers lost their lives there. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Can I have a minute?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0217par0347	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0216par0348	As you claim, you didn't solve the subcontractor problem, you didn't solve the house workers' problem. You also normalized the deaths of workers as martyrs; you don't really have the slightest respect for life, if you have it for yourself, it's a profit and a gain. If the Republic of Turkey doesn't democratize, you can't live without a democratic republic. I'm sorry. In this way, workers are sentenced to slave labor, work killings at construction sites in the gendarmes' sultans. The most important obstacle to social equality in Turkey is the wild capitalist savings regime. Poverty is not the fault of the poor; poverty is created when exploiting labor, when dividing the total budget. People are poor because you are poor, because people are poor, not people who make this budget; poor people, women, workers, disabled people, LGBTI+, they don't make that budget. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In 2002, 0.5 per cent of social benefits in the National Employment Strategy... We're almost there, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0218par0353	Please, I'll extend one minute, I've done it. Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0216par0355	I'd like a moment to complete it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0218par0356	Thank you. I haven't given it to anyone; I'm determined, I won't; I'll give it a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0216par0357	Okay. This resource is made up of people's taxes, and for some reason, you're constantly rubbing it in people's heads like your own pocket, handing out aid like a blessing, which is never acceptable. You're trying to maintain this order with a fascist power, but these people are not going to eat this fascism, my friends. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0219par0361	It's time for Ağrı MP Diryet Dilan Taşdemir. Here you go, Mr. Stonedemir. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0220par0366	We'll have the TVs for you for five minutes, we'll be fine. You're making small talk on the way out. Dear friends, I salute you all. This is the 7th day of budget negotiations. In fact, we all know that this budget process is not democratic, fair, and participatory. So, no matter what we say here as opposition, you continue to read what you actually know. So you think democracy is the power of the majority, but we think it's the dictatorship of the majority. Dear friends, in fact, the AKP is following a policy that depends on its conjunctural and political interests. One of the most prominent issues of this policy is the Kurdish problem itself. So the Kurdish problem is my problem. We came across a political line that often refers to the historical tragedies and suffering of Kurds in the squares, even in the squares. So it's not too far, it's not many years later, but very soon, in 2015, we know very well that the delegations went to Imralı for the democratic solution of this Kurdish problem, for dialogue and for negotiations. So, we know that this approach to the 200-year-old Kurdish problem is the right, the most logical approach, and once again we believe that this approach should be based on it, but it has come to a point where you deny everything you say. I mean, we're almost lynched with a trilateral alliance because we use the word "Mr. Ocalan" here. So, while solving the Kurdish problem at the time was your main policy, today you have the fundamental perspective and motivation of Kurdish opposition, even the period-old Kurdish hostility. We were saying the same thing yesterday, and we're saying the same thing today, and we'll keep saying the same thing tomorrow. We know that we are also many targets from our position, and that is why our friends are in dungeons today; in fact, the account of this process, the ongoing peace process is being questioned. Therefore, if our MPs are in prison today, if Sergiya is in prison, then there is shame in it, and if there is a conscience, it must be done in conscience. Dear friends, once again, every time the election comes up, we look at it, your policy of making enemies abroad or abroad comes into play. So I guess there's no one left for you to make enemies in the country, so now you'd be taking your policy of making enemies outside the lines. So what's going on? Here you are, bombing the Shengal and Mahmur, and coming here to tell the story of the bombing of the Shengal and Mahmur.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0221par0371	None of your business!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0220par0372	Look, Shengal is the holy land of the Kurdish people who live in 74 decrees, who pass through massacres. While one of the oldest peoples of the Middle East, one of the largest in the majority, the people of Ezidi today had to stay a handful of their massacres, and today they continue to fight for their own defence at the Shengal to protect their culture, language, identity. When ISIS attacked the Shengal in 2014, thousands of Shengali were slaughtered, thousands of women were kidnapped, slave markets were set up. ISIS still has thousands of women, hundreds missing. When ISIS attacked Shengal, you didn't move your hair, you didn't think of bombing Shengal, but today you're bombing Shengal. Why? The reason is very simple because the Kurd must not see his mother; the Kurd must not have rights anywhere in the world. Dear friends, again, one of the other places that was bombed is Mahmur camp. The Mahmur camp itself is the Kurdish problem, the mirror of the Kurdish problem. See, the villagers, who were fed feces in the 90s, were forced to burn villages, to emigrate from their homeland, and to take refuge in the camp of Mahmur. He's also been a citizen of this country for 30 years, but he's also a commoner and he has to live there. If the Kurdish problem had been approached with another solution outside the perspective of violence, there would not have been a camp called Mahmur camp today, those people would have been living in Şırnak, Mardin, Siirt. Unfortunately, people who have avoided violence for 30 years today would be the target of bombs in Mahmur. In this bombing, a 74-year-old woman, her 14-year-old granddaughter and two daughters were killed. Again, dear friends, you talk a lot about the tragedy of the Palestinian people on these platforms, but we don't think you have anything to do with the Palestinian people; rather, your likeness is with Israel. Look, what is Israel doing, when a different voice rises to the Palestinian people, what does he do in his country and in the international arena? He's making a fuss about antisemitism, he's making a label like that. Similarly, whenever we say or express something different about the peace issue, the Kurdish issue, the labor issue, the women's issue, you immediately paste the terrorist label. By your logic, half this country is a terrorist. So you invented a variety of terrorists. That's a big success for you. Dear friends, while we are here to criticize your policies, to present alternatives, to fight this, we get violent, we face serious interference. In the same way... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'll finish my words.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0222par0378	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0220par0379	Today, Leyla Güven, who has been on hunger strike for 39 days in prison, has launched this action against this policy. It means a lot that isolation policy is war. So it's not my problem... you can't pretend you didn't hear it, you have to hear it. Because Leyla Güven is carrying out this act today for the peace of this country. So once again, I would like to express that I salute and pay my respects to Layla Güven. Dear friends, last but not least, Nadia Murad has been kidnapped by ISIS barbarians, sexually abused. After he was rescued, he continued his struggle with the people of Sengal, the people of Ezidi, and received the Nobel Peace Prize for it. So international public opinion and international conscience bow down and reward the people of Ezidi for their struggle, but unfortunately you respond by bombing them. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0223par0383	Now it's time for Istanbul MP Züleyha Gülem. Here you go. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0224par0387	Hello. I'd like to start by saying hello to Leyla Güven, who was on her 39th day on the hunger strike. Layla Güven's hunger strike is to open the way for peace in this country. The Clave is responsible for peace. The House should bring this up. I don't think you can stay deaf and dumb about this, because if this is the mission, this is the place to take it on the agenda. Now we're talking about the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. Of course, we're talking about the woman, and we're talking about the violence against the woman, but it wasn't just the budget from the palace that we had to talk to the women, we had to talk to the people, but unfortunately neither women nor women's organizations nor feminist organizations were called here when this budget was being budgeted, they were interviewed, their proposals were taken. Therefore, in order to make the women's voices heard from here, I would like to tell you from here the demands of the Women's Shelters, which have been regularly collected every year since 1998, and of the Council of the Centre for Education, because there is no other way to make their voices heard. Unfortunately, you don't deal with anyone, you don't deal with women's organizations and you don't deal with feminists. What were their demands? For women's solidarity centres and shelters, budgets reserved by both the Ministry and local governments should be increased, managed transparently, the current budget should be made sensitive to social gender equality, and opinions should be taken from independent women's organisations. Data on violence and sexual crimes against women must be kept anonymously and reported and shared with the public at certain times. Instead of withdrawing from child support, the current legal provisions for child support should be protected, and the problems women face regarding alimony should be resolved. The action plan must be prepared with the participation of independent women organisations to implement recommendations included in the GREVIO report. Article 253 of the CMC shall be changed and violent cases against the woman shall be excluded from the scope of reconciliation. Instead of shortening the duration of the measures imposed under Law 6284, decisions must be made in line with women's needs, perpetuity, and effective protection. Children's watch centers should be set up in each district and district; children exposed to sexual abuse and neglect should be provided at once by a psychologist to be provided with video and audio recordings and opinions from the Turkish Medical Chamber on the content and method of their examination reports. All consulting centers and shelters should be open to children's rooms, a temporary children's home in every neighborhood. INTERVIEWs should be made to protect the privacy of the information of the applicants and to serve effectively from a woman's point of view. SURVIVE budgets should be earmarked for municipalities and solidarity centers and shelters; closed solidarity centres and shelters, women's associations must be reopened; these units should be opened in cities and districts without shelters and solidarity centres, and the work of women's organisations in the local area must be supported in this area. Women social workers and psychologists should be employed in combating violence against women. IN accordance with the Istanbul Convention, women must be provided with the same service, and the work of immigrants must be made in accordance with the special needs of refugee women, regardless of whether they are immigrants or refugees. Women in need of shelter need to come up with non-refuge solutions. In each neighborhood, free and accessible day care needs to be opened, compliant with working hours, including newborns. In municipalities, the strategy plan for fighting violence against women must be written, followed; the advisory board for preventing violence must be established; there must be representatives of independent women's organisations. In combating male violence against women, local action plans must be made year-on-year, and their work must be observed. The Alo Violence Line must be implemented 24/7 in local governments. Every neighborhood needs an emergency button. Social economic support for women leaving the shelter should be provided regardless of whether or not they are the children of women, and the budget required by social policies should be set aside so that post-violent women can be strengthened. The first step is to increase the number of centers and staff working here. In order for immigrant and refugee women to receive support from Law 6284, there should be no request for a report of battery and other official documents, and no discrimination should be imposed on immigrant women. Secret decisions made to protect women from men's violence should not be an obstacle to women's education, health, public services, and must be made. Equality units and women's offices in municipalities must be opened, shelters and solidarity centers must be connected to these units. In print and visual media, the necessary sanctions must be applied for the series, the film and so on, which promotes male sovereignty. In order for all of this to happen, we needed a social-sex-sensitive budget, a separate budget for women, of course, a women's ministry.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0225par0396	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0224par0397	But when we look at this budget, we don't see a social-sex-sensitive budget, we don't see a budget that women can participate in because 95 percent of the people who make this budget are male. We're dealing with a gender-blind, inequality budget. That's the way it's bound to happen. Because in order to do all of this, a sense of women's freedom has to prevail, not the family, but the woman's. Militarimism, war, polarization, anti-enemy policies had to be a government that was not policy-setting peace, equality, freedom, the equality of men and women, but since there was no such power, unfortunately, there was nothing in the budget for women, but a budget that raised and raised men's sovereignty. That's why we don't accept this budget.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0225par0399	In order, Diyarbakır MP Adnan Selçuk is in Spearlı. Here you go, Mr. Spearman.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0226par0402	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. We have a title, three ministries today, one of which is the Ministry of Health. My colleagues know, we don't call it the Ministry of Health, we used to call it the Ministry of Health and Welfare because what you call health care is not hospital services, it's not treatment services, it's much more than that. I said social security, and look, I used the concept of security there. Security is not a tank, a cannon, a rifle, a plane, but a security is a situation where you feel good about yourself. And feeling good doesn't just happen in the shadows of guns. So if you're poor, you don't feel well, you don't have to feel good about things, you don't have to feel good about yourself. So we physicians are health, spiritual, body, social and political welfare. But what do we see when we look at Turkey? They're friends in economic dialysis, so that's not what I'm saying, it's the economy ministers. There's respiratory and circulatory failure in education. Just now, friends from your party and other parties have signaled some of those circulatory failures. With him, when we're out on the street, the pressures have actually paralyzed society. How can he say, Mr. Minister, except for the party. As the Minister of Interior, not the AKP's Internal Affairs? Friends, law, justice, democracy in one country is for everyone. If the Minister of the Interior starts, there is no justice in that country, there is no law, there is no such thing. Friends, now, these days, the minimum wage detection commission is working. £1,603. I'm asking you to let one of you rent a slum for $1,603. Oh, for example, how to survive with that $1,603 lira -- you have a wife, you have a child; I'm not saying you have two children -- so please test how to live with her -- and I'm saying, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but there's no need to shed crocodile tears." Turkish-History explains the hunger limit is $1.942. So let's just sit here and we'll figure out a commission, how to live in this country with these numbers, and let's just say that if there's really a minimum wage, let's say that's what we call a minimum wage. Friends, you can do great things, you can do great squares; pyramids have been built; pyramids have been standing for thousands of years -- as pharaohs have not done pyramids -- and laborers today, just as pharaohs are not in charge. But you're responsible for the safety of those workers and the welfare of those workers. If there are 200,000 people working on the construction of that third airport, you have to think of 200,000 people, not 2 bosses. If we're talking about conscience, right and justice, then what we have to put at the center of the matter is clear and clear. You'll say: "Come to the budget. I'll come to you." When we look at the health ministry's budget, when we take out expenses, SGK premiums, and personnel expenses, there's 13 billion, 773 million dollars left. That includes rent payments from those city hospitals, guys, that's $13 billion, $773 million. Mr. Colonel, you've probably watched them sing. When we were leaving these shares for health, we brought the numbers here and there. In the past, I remember these numbers very well, we were in the OPEC countries, we came to $850, and then the dollar was cheap. Now, why don't you tell me in dollars? Dollars are expensive, aren't they? But health care is also getting expensive, my friends, and if the dollar is expensive, it's going to be expensive, and just as it is now with the budget, it's going to be difficult for a lot of public enterprises to run next year, just as it is not able to do urine tests in Surgery. I know you're going to say: "We've opened many hospitals, we've increased the beds, we've increased the beds." Yes, you've opened the way to private hospitals. In this country, private hospitals were opened during the AKP. Friends and private hospitals were not enough. We said public hospitals. We became publicists. So? They said, "Let's open city hospitals." But there was another private business. What happened? There are 8,400 beds being made with city hospitals that are now opening. There's a $10.5 billion response to the production of this cost. What's the number of beds closed? What's the number of hospitals closed? When you look at it, the hospital that corresponds to 6,555 beds is closed, $10.5 billion is paid for 1,845 beds in this country. I also visited Europe -- now I have a ban on leaving the country -- from being a member of an armed terrorist organization, I only know how to use one scalpel, but so -- I've seen the hospital in Basel, I've seen the hospital in Hamburg; friends, buildings that are at least fifty, sixty years old, buildings that are at least fifty, sixty years old. Because they have a memory, you know? Just as patients have memory, those hospitals have memory and language related to the service they receive. You've closed it down, you've built hospital cities out of cities, you haven't built city hospitals. Please consider this: He is 1,200, where you call it 1,600 beds, with his patient, with his companion, with his employee, with his worker, with his tradesman there, you have created the counties. I'm going to hospital town, 30 kilometers across town. I mean, it was reachability, wasn't it, fellas? I mean, we told him what was really happening, how hospitals should work. Friends, laborers work in these; physicians, nurses, paramedics. What did you do? There's an anonymous security investigation with them, you know, when we were saying that there's a burner, there's a tag. Thousands of young physicians, thousands of new graduates, are now awaiting a security investigation. Mr. Secretary is listening, and we discussed this in the commissions: they wait three months, they wait four months. We said: You reduced this to four hundred and fifty days. Where are you going to start these four hundred and fifty days from these three four months? Are you recruiting these kids? You'll take it. If these kids worked as physicians, I mean, would they inject terror, or would they give them terror pills, so you could recruit them, give them weapons? Don't do it. You know what they say: "Don't kill your mothers, my lords. Don't kill your children." One night, you'll issue a decree in a law. You'll turn people into an execution machine. That's not gonna happen. There's also an execution. You know, I told you, security... people who don't signal for road safety... nine of our citizens are losing their lives, and if you think about it with their families, how many houses are in mourning right now? The gentlemen have cleared the way for service without signalling. We're doing great service. Let's just sit down and ask ourselves if we can do this without setting up that system. If this is done, if these people lose their lives, isn't it possible that the owners of this business have no moral, legal, administrative responsibilities? If the violinist is in the orchestra, is there no responsibility for the conductor there? People come out, and the dignity of the job says, "Ya, we're in charge of this too." No, sir, the scissor didn't think to change the scissors there, so nine people left, okay? If there were nine people anywhere else, what would they keep here now, right? Nine people, nine people there, nine people here. Let's not book the dead. Guys, when we looked at the budget... did you check the interest payments? Every eight liras of this budget goes to an interest payment. You know how Erbakan Hodja used to say, "You're the interestrs, you're the ones." Yeah, you know what that number is, guys? In the 2001 crisis, we're going to save this country from the yoke of the IMF. When you said, there was a 21 billion-dollar transaction to save the country -- you know, economic friends. That's a lot more than 21 billion dollars paid for interest today. Friends, it's got to be around 115 billion. I didn't add up a lot. And you know what you're saying? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] President, I apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0227par0417	Let's wrap it up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0226par0418	Our country's security issues go to interest as much as that security budget. Friends, there's a lot of words to be said, but I'm going to say that maybe it's a little bit like this, you know, or something like that, I'm going to read the word "onurur" in the dictionary, and it's the person's self-respect, the person's personality, the inner value that makes you human. This honor exists in institutions as well as in people; this assembly has honor; it will control, it will enact. While we're doing all this work, a representative of this government of the House has been on a hunger strike for thirty-nine days, and his honor is our honor as well. His presence here... as a member of the Legislature, a member who is not only under arrest, who is not convicted, and who has no constitutional response to his incarceration in any way... if he is in prison, it is not possible for us to remain silent. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I say that his request is my request, and I invite you to take a stand on it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0228par0424	Now, I'd like to say that Diyarbakır MP Semra is in Nice. Here you go, Mr. Nice. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0229par0428	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I have made a commitment to the budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate and Turkey's Drug Medical Device. Before I begin, I would like to point out that the indefinitely unchanging hunger strike, which Mr. Leyla Güven, who has been held in prison against the law, has begun to remove the biggest obstacle to democratic politics, the Imralı isolation, has reached its 39th day. Layla's health is now at a critical stage. And as of today, 30 other political prisoners have announced that they are on a non-stop hunger strike with the same demand. Dear friends, the detention of those who support the strike from our city buildings demonstrates the government's insistence on unresolvedness. This insistence must be abandoned, and the voice of Mr. Leyla Güven, who wants to be a bridge to peace, must be answered. During 16 years of AKP rule, the people who stood for human rights and freedom, democracy, peace were terrorized; the judiciary became a stick of power and became political. There's no talking about the justice of the budget in such a process. I don't think we need to say that this budget doesn't see the poor, the hard work, the woman, the nature, the democratization, and it's not prepared with budget understanding, but it's our duty to remind you of your corruption. Dear Regents, it's impossible to talk about a fair division in a place where there's no justice. For example, I'd like to begin with the title of my speech, Mr. Dr. Osman Kan put in office as General Manager on 27 June 2018, at the Turkish Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts. Who is Mr. Kan? She is the wife of an AKP MP. We don't think it's just a coincidence. We can't talk about a fair and evenly distributed budget in a place where political bossy relations are in control. As long as it doesn't change where the finance is being transferred to the family company of its ruling shareholders, the issue will always be open to debate. If we're going to talk about the budget, let's talk about who has the money first. Are the authorities in charge here under the principle of merit or the supporters of power? One of you's son-in-law heads the treasury, one of your daughter-in-law's daughter-in-law, one of your brother-in-law's chairman of the review board, one of you's wife, Border and Coastal Health Department. Mashallah, other than the AKP members, their families and relatives are also skilled in bureaucratic tasks. We don't know if that skill comes from the love of the state or if there are other things going on. Dear friends, with such a situation in this institution, let me remind you of the actual work the institution has forgotten: the repair and prevention of health problems on the coastlines. How many people were drowned in their immigrant ships when they wanted to go to Europe with the war started in the Middle East? Do you know how many dead bodies are still lost in those waters? Kobanili Aylan Kurdi, who crashed his body on the beach as he fled with his family from Syria's barbaric ISIS violence, is still in our memory. As you can see in this photograph, border health is not only a condition of whether ships that pass through the throat carry disease, border health is also closely related to the health problems of war. The solution to this problem is the end of wars, particularly Middle Eastern geography. Otherwise, thousands of people will continue to walk away from war, from violence, from life on the edges of the border. Therefore, as long as you are the subject of this bloody war in the Middle East, your government will personally be responsible for any people who have lost their lives on the shorelines. Dear lawmakers, with all these wrong policies, I'd like to talk about the growing economic crisis and the setbacks in accessing public social rights and social rights. And while each of you is being treated in the most luxurious hospitals, abroad, citizens sometimes have to struggle even to get a drug. The problems with access to drugs are causing patients to suffer severe injuries in their treatments, and because of increased foreign currency courses, cancer is having difficulty accessing the medication used to treat diseases such as diabetes. This shows that political power continues to bill the public for the deepening economic crisis because of its wrong policies. I wonder if there's an explanation for saving public health while riding in palaces of tens of millions of dollars in flying palaces that were bought as gifts while sipping their drinks in gold glasses in palaces. In Turkey, many children with SMA patients are cut off from life because they do not have access to the drugs the state should provide. A AKP minister says the cost of medicine is heavy, we can't afford it. I'd like to ask you, is the cost of your glorious life in luxury too light? Aren't you ashamed of the children who've been cut off from life because they couldn't provide medicine when they were riding tens of millions of dollars in flying palaces? Dear friends, during a period in which public tenders have been suspended due to the economic crisis, we have seen that all of the tenders have been drawn to foreign capital due to a non-existent tender stated in Article 10 of Article 10 of the $10 billion purchase of the medical equipment. How is that local and national? Or are you going to admit that the real reason behind these tenders is a series of political promises to foreign companies and states behind closed doors? This budget, as we admitted in the first place, is questionable. The people's money is paid for MIT, for the palace and for the war. The budget has been being discussed here for a week, opposition parties have voiced objections to the budget, but at the end of the day, the ruling party is accepted however the budget wants. Under the circumstances, you can't claim that the budget is under democratic conditions. The path of democracy is through the table of solutions that you knocked down for your own benefit three years ago. Since that table fell, thousands of people have been killed, arrested, unemployed in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0230par0440	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0229par0441	The problem of democracy in this country is being resolved by the Kurdish problem, and if you can't solve this problem, we can't talk about justice in this country, we can't talk about democracy, we can't talk about a fair budget. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0230par0444	On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, the last word is Iğdır MP Habip. Here you go, Your Honor. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0448	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Before I begin my remarks, a member of this Parliament, I would like to point out that the will of the province of Hakkari has reached its critical stage on the 39th day of the hunger strike launched by Mr. Leyla Güven. Mr. Leyla Güven's wishes are human, a request for peace. It's a request to remove the lockdown on Mr. Ocalan. Which is a request to open the door to peace in the country. So I salute Mr. Leyla Güven again from here. Even though Mr. Leyla Güven is a member of this Parliament, he is being held prisoner only because he is Kurdish. The Speaker must take the initiative and take care of it. Dear friends, if you walk the streets today, if you turn 10 people, do you trust justice? We will make our move against the decision of the ECHR on Mr. Selahattin Demirtaş. As he said, he has instructed justice. There are no moves against justice in a democratic country against court decisions, by law, by law, by the Constitution, friends. You're actually making these countermeasures, putting your own judgment in serious trouble in the international community, and I assure you, you're clouding its independence, its neutrality. All these pressures will not be subject to any HDP people. If you look at the political parties in the garbage bins of politics, you'll see we're not going to kneel, we're not going to bow, you'll see very well, my friends. This un Kneeling will bury you in the chest on March 31st and will teach you the lesson.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0232par0451	Get out of here!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0452	I'm sure that's why you're afraid, that's why you're losing sleep.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0233par0454	Don't be ridiculous! Leave it alone!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0234par0455	Guys, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0456	I'll answer to all of you in a minute, so relax, it's fine.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0234par0457	Mr. Orator, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0458	The will to cast this power into the garbage basket is sitting there, in the dungeon on a hunger strike, so rest assured, you will go, and you will remember my words the day you leave.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0235par0459	It's people's will, people's will.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0460	Dear lawmakers, this budget is not properly prepared. There is no fair, equitable, peaceful budget. Unfortunately, even if we talk about the budget for hours, it won't change anything. The government has drawn up a budget of its own. This budget is again the war budget, based on security policies, the budget of the rich is the palace budget, friends. These people don't live like the capital cut you and yours have in every budget, they don't have the resources you have. Dear lawmakers, the President of the Turkish Institutes of Health has turned into a recruitment system. When we look at the model of city hospitals, it's intended to provide a full supply of capital. Here's the thing: the unnecessary bed, the unnecessary indoor space, equipped with unnecessary technology, on the other hand, the health clinics -- we call the ASMs today -- and when we look at public hospitals, there's a 70 percent lack of medical equipment, there are dozens of MRIs, CTs and ultrasound devices in the city hospitals. The city hospitals you've built miles away from the cities will have nothing to do with public health. City hospitals established in this way will prevent full health care from being used in many cities, thus depriving many municipal services because of city hospitals where large money is spent. Dear MPs, I'd like to give you a few examples of my constituency district of Iğdır to show you how much trouble these distances have caused. For example, patients who have heart attacks in Iğdir are either losing their lives because they were transferred to Erzurum province 300km away because they are not a cardiovascular angiogram center, or they're going into heart failure when they leave during the time of their journey. Again, valuable lawmakers, the health policy in Turkey, unfortunately, is not a health policy that prioritizes protective health care. On the contrary, it's a health policy that is officially focused on making our people sick, market-oriented, capital-predicting, as if it's a health policy designed to get people sick, take more drugs, get more to the hospital. Here, this budget serves that policy. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0236par0467	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0231par0468	Dear lawmakers, many diseases in Turkey, particularly cancers, have started to grow in recent years, as if some diseases have reached the point of being called explosions. Again, we see our young people dying of pancreas, lungs, stomach cancer in my constituency, which has become a major wound to Turkey. The basic reason is this health policy, which is run, which is not protective, that protects capital. Dear lawmakers, health workers are working very hard. Sadly, in almost many counties, many doctors look at 120 patients a day and most of our patients can't find a line. Look, it's the sick queues in Iğdur. It's the health policy you're so proud of. You're saying that people can't go there in the morning and get in line and they're miserable. A doctor has to take 120 patients. Five minutes to 120 patients, that's six hundred minutes a day and ten hours a day. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] One person's shift is eight hours a day. And you're bragging about it and you're always drawing a Alice Wonderland. Thank you, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0237par0474	Dear friends, this concludes the speech on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0238par0475	Mr. President, I'd like to make a statement, please, for the record, regarding some of the statements from the previous character. They mentioned the Health Department of Borders and Coasts, that the General Manager was the wife of an AK PARTl. Dr. Osman Kan, my wife, graduated from the 1985 surgical school of medicine. A long time before I was a member of parliament, he was Deputy Director General of Health of Borders and Coasts, before that he was Chief of Health, and before that, he served as Deputy Chief of Medicine at Şişli Etfal Hospital for many years. I wanted this on the record. His duty has nothing to do with me. I wanted to express it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0239par0479	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0240par0480	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0239par0481	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0240par0484	Mr. President, we're here to make sure we don't discuss issues related to the courts, but we'd like to make a few political disclosures to political comments. We cannot accept his statement because he is a Kurdish. In Turkey, law does not decide based on people's ethnicity, it does not decide by its identity. Therefore, we cannot accept such an explanation for our Kurdish citizens, nor is it possible for us to accept such an explanation against any of the 81 million citizens living in our country. Whoever did it knows exactly what they're doing. The court will answer for these. The other issue is this: this is a decision made by the ECHR, and then, you know, there's an appeal period, obviously, and there's a three-month period of appeal, and then there's a decision made by the Turkish courts. Let the speakers bring in that decision. Let them read it. I think it would be helpful if they could read it from the council bench as well, based on what reasons the court has laid out, what evidence they've laid out, for what reason, a conviction, a verdict.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0241par0487	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0242par0489	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0241par0490	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0242par0492	Mr. President, there's been a statement from the Chief of Staff about the earlier debate, specifically about the symbols used by some soldiers and police during the operations. The military signs and symbols remind us of the arrangement for the arms and the use of both police and soldiers and which symbols are subject to permission, which are strictly forbidden, and the use of symbols of some Islamic groups and symbols of Turkish nationalism is said to be forbidden; this is the legal dimension of the work. The Flag Law is very clear about that, and it is unacceptable to use the flag for its own special situation everywhere, for its own political opinion. Politically speaking, it's one thing if we don't discuss it, but just now, about our congressman's speech, Mr. Akcay...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0241par0495	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0242par0496	We thought that Mr. Akçay's words did not directly target our MP, but when we look at the transcripts, we see the exact statement, which means that showing this photograph there is provocative and despicable. Now, I think we're more responsible for keeping the level up here as group vice presidents. From time to time, our representatives have to be able to restrain, prevent, correct, and, of course, reach a mature discussion of some of their actions due to lack of experience, lack of control over anger or emotions. Therefore, this expression is absolutely unacceptable. He'll probably have an explanation for that. Just as we all pay attention to the pure language as a whole, we expect the other parties to pay the same attention to our share of it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0243par0499	Mr. Akçay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0244par0501	Thank you, Mr. President. Our statements are only against the law, I'd like to remind you. And with the level... no one can give me a reminder of the level of myself or my group. I've been in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for ten years, and I think I'm one of the best at knowing what language is being used, but I may have used such a harsh and hard-core attitude on the stand because I've seen a number of strong accusations suggest. And I think it's important for all lawmakers and groups to pay attention to that, and I don't think it's right to extend it anymore. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0245par0505	Let's finish it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0244par0506	Hopefully, this will be less tense in the coming process... with the speakers, the speakers, and all of us, we all need to be more careful and careful about this. But like I said, it's not just expected, I think it's helpful for everyone to be consistent about it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit02spe0245par0508	I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0245par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 3rd Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. We're starting speeches on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. The first speech is from Süleyman Girgin. Here you go, Mr. Girgin. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0246par0064	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear MPs and fellow citizens, what's the budget? The budget is a political text that shows where revenues are collected and distributed to. In that sense, I'd like to ask you two questions about the 2019 budget. One: What parts of society does the budget offer today protect, which parts of the society do it snore? Two: Will the current budget cover the economic crisis or not? Dear lawmakers, when we look at the 16-year practice of power, it is true that there is no intention of providing enough resources to public services, of actually implementing employment-enhancing policies, of reducing indirect taxes, of resetting VATs from basic consumer goods, of leaving minimum wage untaxed. Today, one percent of the richest income in this country has increased from 38 per cent to 56 per cent during the AKP administration. The remaining 99 per cent share the remaining 44 per cent of the national income. So the AKP has worked for the rich during its rule, protected and protected the rich; it has taken bread from the poor's table and brought it to the rich's table. The 2019 budget is in this sense a raise budget, a waste budget, and is not a budget that protects the public. It's a budget to make students, pensioners, housewives pay the bill for the crisis. When it comes to the public, when it comes to small-income citizens, I fight economic warfare, no money. As for the public, if there are prescriptions, we will take them together. When they come to, we will build a winter palace, a summer palace, and we will buy airplanes. When the Treasury and Finance Minister have a prescription, we will take it together. When he says, "Dear citizens, in fact, what he means is that we ate the pot, and we should all pay the bill together." But remember, they're gonna make citizens pay for all the kebabs and accounts. Dear MPs, as you know, there was another train accident on Wednesday, and unfortunately, nine of our citizens were killed and 47 of our citizens were injured. But what I want to say from here is that there will be no resignations in this train crash, and there will be no answer, and the dead will remain dead, just as there have been so far in the work killings. In this country, there have been killings, such as Pamukova, Kütahya, Choorian train accidents; Soma, Ermenek, Şırnak, Gavillos and other mining accidents; Aladağ, a domestic fire, and a number of other business arms, especially construction. In the mines, old mothers could not swim. Their children drowned. The soldiers froze to death. Not a single resignation from government officials has come from any of them. Dear MPs, dear ministers, it is a crime to cause an accident and death by not taking the necessary precautions, and remember, every crime left unpunished is a seed of the latter, so take your steps accordingly. On December 6th, the CIT Commission says that all of our fast train lines are controlled by cameras 24 hours a day. Dear citizens, when the palace is being built, there is no saving the reputation. If it is saved by signalling the fast train, it will be an accident, a murder. And the engine wasn't supposed to be there. And I'd like to say that you're not supposed to be Minister, and you're not supposed to be Minister. (HPP applause in turn) Because of your administration, the three of them are engineers, and nine lives have been extinguished, Mr. Secretary. You develop a system so the palm trees in the palace garden don't freeze, you don't signal for trains where thousands of people ride. Shame on you! [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, the Ministry of Labor, whose job is to monitor working life, to protect workers, workers, unfortunately, is not doing its duty, not doing inspections. The Ministry of Labor has turned into the ministry of protection and protection of adhering employers. When there is encouragement and support for employers, the government, which is constantly wrapped up in four hands to get the law passed without wasting time, does not do anything to the bosses who do not exercise the rights of workers and workers from the law. See, what happened at the third airport clearly shows that. It is important to ask what the government in the construction sector is doing to protect labor for employers who are not taking care of business health and safety measures. He doesn't check whether preventive measures are taken, he doesn't supervise, he doesn't prosecute people responsible for job killings; he only brings a gag order. Unfortunately, this view has been like this for 16 years. 36% of all deaths registered by the SGC are in construction, 14 per cent in transport, 8 per cent in metal labor, and 8 per cent in mining. In 2012, you issued the Law on Health and Safety 6331. After that law was passed, the work killings continued to increase, let alone decrease. After the law was passed, 10,500 workers lost their lives. Which tells us that this law has no effect on preventing or reducing work killings. Mr. Secretary of Labor, let's change this system while the road is close, set up an independent control system. If you put this system on the market, if you connect occupational safety experts and occupational physicians to the employer, there will be no business-axis audit. Dear MPs, Article 73 of the Constitution, the fair and balanced distribution of the tax burden is a social goal of the monetary policy. Despite this decree of our Constitution, the income of fixed-payers is increasing during the year, and the tax burden is unfairly applied to the workers. I'd like to show you two payrolls. First, it's a minimum wage payroll. From September there, the minimum wage tax is increasing. However, with the later arrangement, this has been met through minimum income reduction, but it has been met for single workers, a married family with three children, which has not been paid for by a worker. The other thing is, this is the payroll of a worker who's paid $3,500. Although its income has not increased over the year, it is taxing starting in May, and the employee's salary at the end of the year has been reduced. For the justice tax system, surely, in the first place, the minimum wage tax must be reset. For those who receive the next salary, the tax must be reset as much as the minimum wage, and the tax must start over the minimum wage, my dear citizens, dear lawmakers. Dear friends, I'd like to give you a few numbers. As of November, the hunger limit is $1,943 lira, poverty limit is $6,328, minimum wage is $1,603. The palace's one-minute spending is $5,327 as of 2019. According to the department's figures, almost 6 million employees work for minimum wage. There's no such thing anywhere in the world. Inflation is 25 percent and inflation is one of the most unfair taxes. 3.5 million people are unemployed. 846 companies have declared concordato. Bankruptcy and concordato are also affected by workers in the foreclosure process. Mr. Secretary, the severance package in the Employment Law must be made a priority. Again, who's going to pay the bill for the crisis? Either the public will pay, or the ones who cause the crisis will pay. Our people will answer them in the first place. I want to remind you of a word that goes around the Internet: not because he doesn't know how to steal the poor, but because he doesn't want what's rightfully his. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear lawmakers, our Constitution has written freedom of rights. Those who go out on the street looking for legitimate rights will also be using their constitutional rights. But threatening citizens to go out in search of rights is a constitutional offense, despotism. Dear MPs, I'd like to show a picture of you as a brother who has struggled against the privatisation of the Yatan, Milas, Kemerköy Termik Plant and coal mines, especially our Home Secretary, while we're fighting against privatisation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0247par0085	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0246par0086	I'll finish it. Madam Secretary, this is happening right next to me. This is a plastic bullet fired directly into the employee's face from a distance of 10 feet [3 m] from Ankara Liberation Park. Mr. Secretary, I especially want to stress that these people are our citizens. Don't be like that with people looking for rights. And don't say we're coming out of the trunk when you're stuck like it's the right thing to do. Democracy isn't just in the chest, it's in freedom of speech, it's in freedom of thought; it's inlerant of different voices. Democracy is the right to seek rights, the right to protest, the right to demonstration and march, the right to strike, the right to union. Mr. Secretary of Labor, have you visited workers who have been fired for being unionist for one day? Let's go to the people who are fired from work because they are unionists at many businesses in Turkey and tell the bosses that you can't break the law. Say, "You can't fire workers just because they're from the Union." [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, before I complete my words, I condemn this popular violence to all those who exercise their rights. Don't put plastic bullets in the right-seeking worker. Don't kick the right-seeking miner. Don't treat right-seeking airport workers like terrorists. Go give the rapists and child molesters the punishment they need, go worry about women's murders. The reputation of this country is not measured by palaces, its reputation is measured by the value of labour, it is measured by the value of women, I salute everyone.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0248par0093	It's time for Bilıkık MP Yasar Tuzün. Here you go, Mr. Charter. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0249par0097	Mr. President, members of parliament, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the Ministry of Public Order and Security. I salute your high council. Dear friends, we're conducting interviews of an undersecretary that doesn't exist, an undersecretary that closes down. In 2010, no doubt, this undersecretary was established with the idea of a pool to help gather information from the Anti-terrorism and, in the first place, the MIT, the gendarme, the Police Department. With the establishment of this undersecretary, the governor of Istanbul of the period -- you all know very well -- has been appointed president of this undersecretary. Of course, the AKP also tried the puzzle trial in this undersecretary, which it had done so far, which it wanted to put into practice, but it couldn't, as it always has. Of course, this well-intentioned undersecretary did not come to an end, and it was established on March 4, 2010, and it was linked to the Ministry of Interior, not many years later, and not many years later, it was reconnected with the Ministry of Interior in 2014, and it was closed in 2018. So we can't just say, like, once upon a time, like always. Again, we are faced with a government that has been in power for a hundred and eighty-seven months, changing one hundred and eighty-seven public tender laws. Again, this presidency, established under the name Telecommunication Communication Presidency, was carried out under legal regulations. In fact, he was appointed directly by the president and public staff. The sentence was put into law, but where we came from, he said, "This is a shithole." And he shut down his own TİB presidency. Dear friends, those who stray cannot guide anyone. The AKP is a government that has lost its way to power. Why am I saying this? See, especially this undersecretary, the TİB has put into practice the same story that was always, always the same in the Public Contraction Act. So you can't run Turkey with the mentality of a trade restaurant, with a tradesman's mentality of 81 million states of the Republic of Turkey. Look, the groom takes care of the treasure, the son takes care of the education, the wife takes care of the health, the daughter takes care of the communication. So you can't manage 81 million with an understanding of the management of a shopkeeper's restaurant. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, yes, that understanding is once upon a time an understanding. Please change that understanding. I know from today's presidential government system model that you are more likely to suffer than opposition party lawmakers. You know better than I do that this system can't be implemented in Turkish standards, but you can't make a sound, because you don't want to make a sound, because we need a hundred days of power, a hundred days of governance. You said, "Give me 100 days of authority." You said, you campaigned, we will fly Turkey in 100 days. You said, "We will fly Turkey in 100 days." But unfortunately, in 100 days, you have needed Turkey's dry onions. We want to express once again that this understanding is not going to go like this. Now, we have the March 31st local elections ahead of us. In these elections, our nation, our people, will give you the necessary lesson, and on the morning of April 1st, the AKP's local governments will say that once upon a time. Our citizen thinks he'll do the proper punishment in the chest, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0250par0107	Thank you, Mr. Charter.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0251par0108	Mr. President, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0250par0109	Now it's time for Heromarash MP Ali Öztunç. Here you go, Mr. Oztunç. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I'm here to announce the Republican People's Party's views on the Security Directorate budget. I salute you all with love. Police Department personnel have very serious problems. Look, personnel' rights are a serious problem, staff hours are a serious problem. You've made promises everywhere you go about the 3600 additional indicators in the polls. You've said it, Mr. Minister, you've said it, Mr. President said it, we'll take care of 3,600. You've given the police hope, but the election's over, you've got the votes, you've come to Ankara, you've sat in these seats, you've sat in the palace, you've forgotten the police; it's a pity, it's a sin. We invite you to keep your promise on 3600. The police, the police department, are not only people who control the security of the country, but also the security of the peace. If they work comfortably, we'll live our lives in peace. Police General Directorate is also fighting terrorism, while Police Headquarters is involved in terrorism. Look, I'm going to give you a number, 10 per cent of the staff of the Police Department, or rather the Ministry of Interior. It's in the brochure that was distributed today, 43,648 people were expelled from the Ministry of Interior because of Å. Mr. Secretary, who signed these 43,648 people into the Ministry? Who put these Fetullahists in this Ministry? The Justice and Development Party has been running for 16 years, has it been taken by those who have ruled the country for 16 years? Look, here's a suggestion: Friends, at the Police General Directorate, one-quarter of the police, 27.7 per cent of the official figures are being worked out of their original job, working, taking advantage of terrorism compensation, taking that money. On the one hand, the cop who puts a gun on his waist, goes and maintains security, fights terrorism, and the cop who works in the canteen gets the same salary, gets the same rights. Of the 3,589 staff in 152 social facilities, 2,064 (police officers), 689 (police officers) of the 165 canteen employees, 4 day care centers and 34 other police officers of the day care centers. These guys get the same rights as the other cops. Instead, the government would profit, and these cops would go and do their jobs, just like their other friends.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0253par0118	They can't get the same rights, they can't, Mr. Ali.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0119	They're taking it now.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0253par0120	They gave you false information.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0121	No, sir, I'll tell you right now, it's an official report from the Public Control Agency.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0253par0122	I did it, they can't take it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0123	Mr. General Manager, that's what it says. Look, my brother-in-law Mehdi Uzuk from Ekinözü district is a police officer in İstanbul; on the day he's off duty, he's involved in a theft case, interfering with a thief in the responsibility of being a police officer, getting stabbed. He's a martyr, isn't he? He's a martyr, isn't he, fellas? But the martyr's rights are not being taken advantage of. It's a shame, isn't it? What was he going to do, this police officer? Is that what he was going to say, Minister? I'm off duty today, I shouldn't interfere. Is that what he was going to say, officer? Right now, the martyr's rights are not being taken advantage of. I'd like to convey your special interest in this matter. There are two martyrs in Cataplancirit, Fatih neighbourhood. When you go to the homes of both martyrs, they are miserable; they have no roads; they have real problems. Look, Mr. Health Minister, you're very lucky today because you're in the same budget as the Home Secretary. So Mr. Home Secretary has all the arrows in Mr. Home Secretary's possession due to his personal condition, because the Minister has a political identity. Mr. Health Minister, you're very comfortable.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0254par0127	What polemics? He's telling the truth.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0128	If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say a few words.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0254par0129	You're doing the pollen. You're doing polemics right now.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0130	Mr. Minister, there is a district called Elbistan. Not Uzbekistan, not Turkmenistan, not Kazakhstan, Elbia; Elbia is a district in Anatolia, not Central Asia. There's no doctor. Minister, a hospital has been built. I don't know if Mr. Mahir Ünal is here, but with his support, God bless him, he did. Oh, it's been a year, it's been pouring out of the hospital, but still, it's been done. The technology is no longer like this, Mr. Secretary: When a patient enters the hospital, the patient will recover because he is a new hospital. There is no such thing, he must become a doctor. No obstetrics. The people who live there... they appear to have four on paper, Minister. Now you're going to say: there are four doctors. But there really isn't a doctor in the hospital, friends. Four doctors on paper, patients leaving, no. No neurosurgeons.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0255par0132	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0252par0133	There are no specialists at the Fallscirit State Hospital, no attendings at Nurhak State Hospital. We expect your special attention in these matters. People who live in these counties are citizens of this country, military, taxing, all kinds of responsibilities against the state, but unfortunately they can't find a doctor. The Minister of Energy said here two days ago: "We're also privatizing the Afshin-Elbistan Termic Plant, but none of it will be laid off, I promise, it will never happen." Look, on Friday, nearly 200 people were laid off. They were taken out and they didn't say -- the cook workers -- because the company didn't say they were taken out. Today they say: "We have put you out of business, but keep working. Look, it's a shame for the workers, it's a shame for these people, don't let these people have their bread on winter day. I'm saying keep your promise to the workers of the Afshin-Elbistan thermal plant, and please don't let these people get out of work. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0256par0137	Mr. Mush, after this group meeting is complete, let me make a promise to our members of the group. Now it's time for Nevşehir MP Faruk Sarıaslan. Here you go, Mr. Yellowaslan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0257par0142	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the General Staff budget. There are essentials to being a permanent, powerful, leading country in this land. You'll have a strong economy, a strong army. You'll have a youth who thinks, argues, analyzes, understands, and tells. He's not going to rent his mind to the religiousists and the same charlatans. You'll have scholars like Jonah, like the Lord, like the guardian of Hajji Bekstone. Instead of blaming others, you will have rulers who say, "Where did I go wrong? ' ▪ The king is the chief, not the crown. / Whatever you're looking for, look for yourself. / Not in Jerusalem, not in Mecca, not in the pilgrimage. • So if we apply it today, you will not call in America, in Europe. I created the small mountains, and the elders were left by my father. It'll be like a man, for example, don't insist on a hundred, it'll be 90. / A man can be a failure. / Don't get cocky, what have you got? Don't say I'm in. If you're not in, it's okay. It's going to be like a dolphin, like, don't tell me you don't have it, and neither do I. / I have a mole in me. He will say, "To draw near to God, he will not need a sheikh, he will trust in himself, his religion, his faith, and his faith." People will freely speak, write, argue. His opponents will not be thrown in jail using courts. The law will be enforced. Of course he'll use force. He's gonna come down on all those gunmen like a sledgehammer. You're going to have universities that are producing for the strong economy and sharing what they're producing with justice, producing their own technology, competing with world countries in knowledge. You'll have a strong army, you won't have executives who've been framed by those who feel the power of your army on their backs. There will be hundreds of generals, officers, petty officers arrested and tortured and suicides, as well as cases like Ergenekon and so on. The secret information of the state will not be served abroad through charlatans who live religiously. Congressmans, what happened at the end of the Ergenekon case? I especially recommend this to our friends in the AKP: İstanbul 1st. I want our lawyer friends to read in particular, and I'm going to give you some quotes from here. The Ergenekon plot was set up by theoretical and plan-level strategists of the congregation in 2005. This case is a conspiracy of two basic stages. Phase one is the process of producing concrete evidence through acts of terror and their agents. The second stage is the process of suppressing through the Ergenekon case based on phase one. This pressure has been mostly on the Turkish Armed Forces. One of the most important feet of the Ergenekon conspiracy is the alliance with liberals -- the AKP -- which is here, of course, the prosecutor. The reason why the Ergenekon conspiracy is so effective is because I'm stressing this -- it's not because it's well designed, it's internal conjonk. The plan was implemented in 2007. Following the operations launched against the communities of Fetullah Gülen and his organization against themselves, the conspiracy of these cases, which were launched with unprovoked, unlawful, false accusations and false evidence, was revealed years after it was a conspiracy. I'm doing the same thing from the debate on this foundation: ▪ Ergenekon, a terrorist organization called Ergenekon, has never really happened. The Istanbul Republic prosecutor says this. Law and history will surely, one day, account for the reasons for these conspiracy cases -- I'll underline them -- for sure. As a government, we must learn from what has happened, to protect our army, our justice, our public institutions and institutions. We shouldn't allow communities and cults in the government. We don't know when or whose direction they're going to be. Our intelligence agencies should focus on the real danger, not on the fictional ones.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0258par0148	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0257par0149	In the Turkish Armed Forces, we must hand over our country's future to the National Defence University, the gendarmes and Coast Guard Academy, as we organise promotions and promotions to other public institutions and institutions, while identifying those who have the right to benefit from any religion, sects, sects, sects, communities, without ideologies, with equal assessments. We must ensure that every individual in our country, our army, justice, and the functioning of public institutions and organizations, are infinitely confident. I would like to finish my words with a verse of Nazim Hikmet. This is our land, which has come to four paces and stretched from distant Asia to the Mediterranean like a mare's head. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0259par0153	Now it's time for Balıkesir MP Ensar Aytekin. Mr. Aytekin, your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0260par0156	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group regarding the budget of the current Coast Guard Command. I salute you all. Dear friends, we're discussing the Coast Guard Command budget. The Coast Guard Command, run by a commander in the former Admiralty rank, is now managed by the rank of Commodore. So a ranking commander who should be leading the brigade is in charge of the husband's command today. First, they had to call the nation, the true owner of democracy, on the evening of July 15th, who had promoted the traitors who had been arrested for four years for conspiracy and lying cases such as Ergenekon, Balyoz, and by the plots of traitors in military uniforms. Our Marine Corps and our pupil, the Coast Guard Command, have become almost the focus group of traitors who stand out against the military forces of the world. We know who put these traitors there. For example, Hakan Basem, the Coast Guard Commander. The commander who asked where Erdoğan was staying on the night of July 15th. He's a coupger, he's under arrest today; did we appoint him? Here's the document, dear friends; under the decision to appoint Abdullah Gul, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Efkan Ala. It's another case, the incubator brothers. Rear Admiral Hasan Kulaç, Chief of Gendarme Staff Colonel Omar Kulaç and the Supreme Court members Hüseyin Kulaç brothers are also under arrest. Hüseyin Kulaç was the wife's older brother, Ergenekon, Oda TV, and former İstanbul Chief Prosecutor's Attorney Jahan Kanaz. Who appoints both Kulaç and No Blood? Who promoted Hasan Kulaç to admiral? His document is here: Abdullah Gul, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, İsmet Yilmaz. Those who assign those traitors to those ranks have a responsibility in these matters. There are no soldiers left in the army, soldier! The Ergenekon case collapsed, the last court said there was no organization. Now I'm the prosecutor of this case. We're wondering if they'll apologize for what they've done to the prisoners, for what they've done to the victims. A man's back is as high as the earth's. Ali Tatar is above all of you. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Dear friends, this budget is a budget that shows how money is wasted. This is a budget for people who call their own children businessmen and say something in three or five ways. This budget is the budget of the tax on your mother's bus ticket from Hatay to Balıkesir to attend Abdullah's generous trial. This budget is a budget to reduce the sky to the children of the Kaz Mountains, who have been planted in their living spaces, who have been created like mushrooms, who have been pursued by mining companies. In the last year 195 refugees have died in our waters. Those seeking illegal passage to Europe prefer Turkish territorial waters because refugees think they will not be caught in Turkey. The result of this is death. This budget is the budget of the Aylan baby who landed on land while fleeing the war of imperialism. It is the budget of those who say, "Don't take the CHP to the martyrs' funerals." It is the budget of those who burn two soldiers in Syria, who let two soldiers freeze to death in Tunisia, and who, shamelessly, go to the scene with a 4,000-dollar scarf. (Applause from CHP rows) At a minimum wage of 1,600 lira, buy 80 thousand liras a month and thank them on TV. It is the budget of those who go to prayer with an armored Mercedes. This budget is the budget in city hospitals where patients are treated as clients, and customers are guaranteed customers to build the hospital. This budget is a budget for increased water taxes, which has been sprayed on Saturday's mothers for 35 years, searching for their children's bones. It is the budget of the people of the Prophet who did not save dignity. It is the budget of those who have sanctified the water which Hacer was seeking, which ran between Sfa Merve, and sweeten their mouth with dragon juices.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0261par0167	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0260par0168	Dear friends, this people's reputation is clear. The people's reputation is in the Revolution, where Ishmael committed suicide because he couldn't buy clothes for his child. The people's reputation is frozen and burned to death. The people's reputation was earned in Çanakkale, and the price was paid in Caucasus. The people's reputation is at Seyit Corporal, who is carrying a 300-pound bullet. This people's reputation is inadvertent to say two drunkards, and the founder of this land, which you have dared, is Mustafa Kemal, Ismet Innu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] None of this is in this budget. This budget has more construction, more tenders, more dragon fruit, more posh. This budget, dear friends, is the budget of those traveling in the palanquin in the final analysis. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0262par0173	Gaziantep MP İrfan Kaplan is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Kaplan. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0263par0177	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. For 16 years, we have seen AKP's incompetence in domestic policy as well as foreign policy, and we continue to be. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ahmet Davutoglu of the period had a political goal. What was the target? The policy of zero problems with our neighbors. Yes, you said zero problems with the neighbors, you left no neighbors. You said "Democracy," you brought the State of Emergency. You said honesty, you changed the Public Contraction Act 186 times. You said peace, you said peace, you turned the country into a martyr's grave. You said, 'Fitratt, you've reached the top of the number of work murders.' You said, "Producing." You turned everything into an import country. The fast train, you said, went off the rails; just three days ago it took nine lives. We made the roads." You said, the roads have collapsed. We built bridges." You said the bridges were destroyed. So you've made our country from west to east, south to north, gangrene, suffering from problems, and dying. My dear friends, as you know, on September 17, 2009, the agreement with Syria was signed and visas were lifted on both sides. On August 15, 2010, Recep Tayyip Erdogan's speech in Gaziantep said: "We sat down with my brother Esad, and we made Turkey and Syria two brothers and two friendly countries of the region. We signed a co-operation agreement in economics, trade, foreign policy, culture, art, transportation. Now, my Gaziantep brother puts his passport in his pocket, and goes to Aleppo, and Damascus as he pleases; and my brother there puts his passport in his pocket, and comes to Gaziantep. Who won? Gaziantep won, didn't he? Yes, as a Gaziantepian, I was glad, I was happy. At that time, tourism came to life, economics came to life, shopping came to life. And then what happened? Just five months after Erdogan's Gaziantep speech, the first protests began in Syria, quickly turning into civil war. Erdogan and Assad were broken in March 2011. Erdoğan's brother Assad became his enemy, Esed. Those who fled Syria in April 2011 arrived at the Turkish border as refugees. As many jihadist elements as there are, all of them went through Turkey to Syria. On August 24, 2012, Mr. Kilicdaroglu wrote a letter to Erdogan saying that it was not right to interfere in Syrian internal affairs, that in the long term it would put our country in distress, and they did not listen. My dear friends, we all know that Syrian policy is a waste of diplomacy and the bill he's making for our country is obvious. CHP's problem is not with refugees, but with policies that create refugees. There are about 4 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. Most of them live in Istanbul, Urbana, Hatay, Gaziantep, and Milis. $33 billion was spent on Syrian refugees. There's no explanation for where or how this amount was spent. Syrian refugees are granted as many rights as education, health, employment, and employment. As the Republican People's Party, we have no problem with Syrian refugees; on the contrary, it is our duty to help, to embrace, to embrace, to help these people who have fled the war, who have been from home, family, and homeland, but the AKP has faced Syrian refugees with false policies and unpredictable attitudes. With the Syrian workers working off the books, the Turkish citizen's unemployment level rose, while the Syrians, who used all health services for free in hospitals, and citizens who received health care for 14 pens. The rents have gone up. Syrian mafias have evolved. The snatching has increased. Every day in Gaziantep, in the Church, we witness a Syrian-Turkish dispute. You promised not to let people go to Turkey six months later, when the tent cities which had been closed in Adıyaman and Mardin will be cast from subcontractors. How will these people get by?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0264par0185	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0263par0186	In short, you took an eye out when you said you wanted to make an eyebrow. As the AKP government, you have to solve the Syrian problem. My dear friends, I'm speaking to the AKP: If you can't solve the Syrian refugee problem in this budget, if you can't solve unemployment, if you can't give free health care for the most basic rights, if you reject the legal offer of pensioners, if you don't understand the disability, student, small-income citizen, farmer, producer, worker, non-assigned teacher, non-employee, teacher who committed suicide because he couldn't buy pants for his child, you're feeding the situation of my brother Ismail, not the citizen who's in need of life, but with this budget. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0265par0190	Now, let's talk about Izmir MP Kani Beko. Here you go, Mr. Beko. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0266par0193	Mr. President, my fellow Regents, today, as you know, the minimum wage is being discussed. I'd like to start with my words about minimum wage. Our fellow laborers at minimum wage expect news of a fee that can satisfy the basic needs of human beings. But before that, I'd like to ask my ministers: We served with them for years in the International Labour Organization ILO. Almost all of the countries that are members of the ILO are based on a family of four, and in Turkey, unfortunately, one worker is based on it. When we look at it, 70 percent of our workers, our friends who work for minimum wage, have families, so they have children. So when we look at it today, folks, the minimum wage is definitely going to be $2,200, but the tax and the AGI have to stay out. Remember, at one point, we were getting a tax refund. What did they do about the tax returns? They put tax returns in the minimum wage, so the minimum wage would be seen high. And there's one thing we've always said, don't discriminate between workers and civil servants. When we get to today, employees have separate minimum wage, what kind of a thing is that? So I believe that minimum wage should be the only price, not the officers getting paid too much -- without a civil-employee distinction. Another thing, my dear friends, is that 30 billion tax dollars a year from minimum wage, unfortunately, and employers have been granted 176 billion tax exemptions. This commission is wrong for me. In order for this commission to be truly a democratic commission, I believe that within this commission, there must be workers' confederations such as DİSK, TÜRK-İSK and HAK-HIH, and, of course, our fellow workers working at minimum wage. The minimum wage is a matter of the country, it's no joke. My dear friends, if a worker doesn't get the energy he's given in the morning, noon and evening, the calories he's given you, you'll be killing those workers while they're alive. So it is our duty to all of us to really determine the minimum wage. While we're waiting for news from us, which is about 10 million minimum wage, I repeat, the minimum wage would definitely be $2,200. Another thing: Mr. President, we're assigning staff to the Tabheron workers. They took subcontractors to public, municipalities, and private administrations, but I warned them here at the time -- we passed an embarrassing law in the Constitution of 690. You know what we pulled out? There are no collective contracts for our friends who work for nearly 1 million, public, municipalities, and private administrations until 2020; no four bonuses for the staff, no bonus for the subcontractor; no social rights for the staff, no social rights for the subcontractor. This is against the principle of equality and the Constitution. The fee by 2020 is only four percent plus four percent; inflation is 25 percent, so if you think about official inflation and market inflation, we're going to have to review the injustice done to our friends. Dear friends, dear brothers and sisters, our country has a bleeding wound, child labor. During my DİSK presidency, the ministers and I started a project called "the children are at school, not at risky and dangerous businesses." But when we looked at it, we didn't get as far as a barley. Although nearly 2,000 children, physically and mentally, are not ready, they still work in dangerous businesses. Therefore, despite UN resolution, Law 4857, and the decisions of the International Labour Organization, we employ these children in dangerous, risky businesses. My dear lawmakers, in 2013, 50 children died in 2014, 54 children in 2014, 63 children in 2015, 56 children in 2016, 60 children in 2017.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0267par0203	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0266par0204	Facial employers created by the AKP government are burning their factories; they are running abroad to avoid paying taxes, insurance and workers' severance pay. According to Istanbul fire department statistics, only six months of this year, there have been 78 factories in Istanbul, and the number of burning factories in the last five years has reached 856. I've been talking here for pensioners, and I'm talking again. As the President says, it's not $750 billion a year, it's 8 or 10 billion a year, if we put a salary on our friends who live in retirement, close to 700,000. I've told you before, if we're giving $40 billion to Syrian guests, of course we think we should definitely give $8-10 billion to our country's children. The future is the work of young men and young men and teachers. Under what we call this beautiful word, nearly 500,000 teachers are unemployed, unfortunately, about 100 ▪ have committed suicide. Friends, because of this budget, because the workers, the peasants, the tradesmen, the unemployed, the public budget, we say no to this budget, we say no, we say no, we say no.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0268par0210	Now it's time for Samsun MP Neslihan Hancıoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Hancioğlu. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0269par0214	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I salute the General Assembly. For this ministry, you will set aside a budget of 103 billion, 91,801,000 euros per year, with approximately 67 billion transferred to the Social Security Institution and ISKUR. Once you subtract administrative spending from this figure, you will have roughly $20 billion to finance social policies. At this point, I would like to point out that there will be local elections in 2019, and I assume you'll be billing municipalities for the cost of coal and pasta you'll distribute. That's why I'm telling you you're gonna get $20 billion. Now, with the remaining $20 billion, your Ministry has to do its work. The first thing standing in front of you is to finance projects that will sustain the family institution, the most basic building blocks of society. The neoliberal policies that your power has implemented for 16 years today give our country economic and social trauma. The possibility of human life has largely disappeared. The citizen's buying power has dropped to the bottom. The income injustice has reached its peak. Today, our society is experiencing unspeakable corruption. The architect of this is your power. It's not a big deal to say. All policies in domestic policy, foreign policy, economics, social life are full of contradictions, wheels, zigzags. These swings brought corruption with them. This process was reflected in society's dissolution. In its budget presentation on the Commission, the Council of Ministers has provided advice on family integrity to 22,500 people since 2012. Well, do you know how many families have broken up this year alone? I'll say it: 128,411 families, which is exactly six times the amount of counseling your Ministry has provided in six years. Marriage rates are dropping, divorce rates are rising rapidly. If the family is the foundation of the institutions that have created society, it tells us that our society has been torn apart from its foundation, and the more painful work you've done, the more useful it is, the more useful it is. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, our human element is decaying while society is unraveling. Even if someone tries to conceal that fact, our future is in the darkness of addiction, especially substance abuse. In the past three years alone, the number of substance users has increased by 20 per cent and exceeded 1.5 million. Unfortunately, the most recent data is from 2016, so I can give you the numbers of that year. The exact number of people who died that year was 920 because of drugs. One of the most risky cities in the prevalence of use -- it's also in the High Council Reports Against Drugs -- is my constituency, Samsun. Families are anxious, sending their children to school in fear. The measures that have been taken, the work that has been done, do not satisfy that fear at all. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, society is in a bad mood, and so is our people. This corrupt psychology fuels violence. Violence is now in every aspect of our lives. Those who are subjected to violence, unfortunately, are the most disadvantaged groups in our society, our women and our children. Only this year, 350 women were killed by violence. Just two weeks ago today in Samsun, our daughter, Merve Özcan, was stabbed to death in 19 places by her husband, whom she was about to divorce. In the last ten years, 2,439 women like Merve have been killed. The Department of Justice data reveals that 8,000 children are sexually abused a year. It's a known fact that child abuse has increased seven times in the last ten years. The fact that these murders, these abuses, are unstoppable should destroy you as much as I do the Ministry. Mr. Secretary, the high-value lawmakers are showing us that these problems, which are directly responsible for the Ministry, which I have promised on its budget, are extremely unsuccessful.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0270par0223	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0269par0225	No matter how many resources are transferred, as long as the policy changes, I think these problems can't be solved, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0270par0227	In turn, Tekirdağ MP Candan Üşeker. Here you go, Mr. Supreme. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0271par0231	Mr. President, I have received a pledge from the Republican People's Party on the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services. I salute the General Assembly. You can appreciate that it is impossible to fit a ministry within a large number of general managerial offices into a five-minute period of the largest budget in all ministries. Are we really going to talk about the irregularities the Court has detected in such a short period of time, whether violence continues without stopping speed, or whether they can't use the rights of millions of disabled people or the distortions under the name of social aid? Are we going to talk about your young woman's insufferable unemployment, about the money being squandered in the fund that needs to be spent on the unemployed, or are we going to talk about the problems of the veterans and the relatives of the martyrs, or are we going to talk about the subcontractors you've forgotten your promise to one night, about the job killings that you've abandoned with the 3600 additional indicators, or the hundreds of thousands of public employees you've abandoned, or the ones you've failed to hear about the job killings that cost the lives of 30,000 workers? The two major ministries merged: two ministries, workers, women, poor, elderly, disabled, children, martyrs and veterans who had to protect their rights. I hope that you can solve problems that you didn't solve when you were two separate ministries, that you lay on your ears, under the single ministry roof; that's our wish. This is Tmenni, but there's one fact that's in the middle, and here's the truth: you're spending $13,154,000 on the budget of the woman's status, which is the only women's work available to the director's office. Well, there's a lot of examples, but there's no time, so I just want to make a comparison. According to the 2017 Court report, the president spent 36 million, 273,650 liras on representation and hospitality costs. That's twice as much as the National Directorate of Child Services budget, three times as much as the National Directorate of Women's Status budget. These figures show how important women and children are to power, or rather not to priority. In the budget presentation, Mr. Minister says that in the President's statement, they consider violence to women as a crime of humanity and are fighting it at the highest level with the zero tolerance principle, but the same President is not equal with the man and the woman. He does not mention the expression at all. However, Mr. Secretary knows very well that these inequalities of those who run the country continue to fuel violence. You're hearing a lot of things in our country. First of all, what country, what country, what country, what sacrificed its martyrs, makes a distinction between its veterans who shielded its country? Look, those who graduated from elementary school near the martyrs of July 15th could become officers, but this was not recognized to other families of martyrs. When compensation was paid to veterans of July 15th, it was not recognized to others. Today there's a pay difference between our veterans and the relatives of the martyrs. I'm past the inequality of it, but does it fit in morality and conscience? Can you discriminate between people who have paid the price? I suppose that's your idea of justice, that's your idea of justice. Speaking of which, I'd like to ask you, where's the help for the 15th of July martyrs? That's what we ask the relatives of the martyrs, they say: "We have not been given such money. We ask the power. We have distributed it," they say. Literally, if the cat's here, where's the liver, where's the cat if the liver's here? That's exactly what this is about, I'm afraid. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Look, we've got some unaccounted-for disabled people. Why is the number unknown? TÜİK made a statement in 2002, made a statement, said we have 8.5 million disabled people. Then he made a different definition in 2011. He said, "We have 4.8 million disabled people." The Minister doesn't even know how many disabled people he has to look after. Why am I expressing this? Because we've helped so many people in the budget, we've helped so many disabled people, he says, but he can't pronounce the number. Why am I saying this? If you don't have a healthy and realistic database, you're missing services. For example, you can't adjust the city, transportation, access to it, you can't employ it accordingly. What happens when that happens? Then there will be injustice, injustice. As a result, I have to say that those who don't believe in equality between men and women, those who boast that even the number of people who are given welfare is millions, that they are expressed...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0272par0241	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0271par0242	...instead of protecting women who are victims of domestic violence, there's no good in the public's budget for those who look out for their child support, who look out for their job killings, who prevent them from even seeking the rights of our disabled citizens, and who are driven to suicide because of unemployment. So I would like to say to this budget, this budget, which is not for the benefit of our citizens, that the budget of the palace, that as the Republican People's Party Group, we would say no, I offer respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0272par0244	In line with Zonguldak MP Ünal Demirtaş. Here you are, Mr. Demirtaş. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0273par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. I salute the General Assembly and our people. Dear lawmakers, we're discussing the 2019 budget, but this budget, unfortunately, is not the unemployment budget, my friends. This is not the budget of pensioners, shopkeepers, civil servants, farmers, peasants and workers, friends. And whose budget is this? This is the budget, the palace's budget, folks. This budget is the budget of the eaters who are bidding on dollars around the palace. It's a budget for global loan sharks, desiccats, and those who've earned the right to an undamaged orphan, my friends. Dear lawmakers, of course, work and working life are a field of problems. However, in 16 years, the EC PARTY has not solved any of the problems that have been accumulated. Because for 16 years, they played three monkeys in the face of the problems of working and working life, and they made no effort to solve them. Dear lawmakers, today Turkey is going through a major economic crisis, and the crisis continues to deepen. It is clear and clear that after the election, there will be a need for money like 60-70 billion dollars. And I'm afraid the workers are paying the bill for the big one, folks. Unregistered work, unsecured and flexible work, low salary, legal rights, unemployment, poverty and business murders. Dear MPs, here is a worker who pays the bill for the wrong policies of the EC PARTY, Sitki Aydın. Dear friends, Mr. Minister, this is Sıtki Aydın, our friend, member of the EC PARTY, member of Samsun Wednesday, and a worker who gave the vote to Erdogan. A worker who had a work accident while working as a subcontractor at the construction site, as he likes to call it, was left at the door like a dead dog, Sitki Aydın. A worker who asked Erdogan for a job, but couldn't find a job in five years, who was stuck in debt, and this worker, Aydin, is coming to parliament as a last resort, and what is he doing to make his voice heard? He's burning himself and he wants to die, Minister. Here, dear friends, how long has it been since Sitki Aydın caught himself? It's been a year, but today, Sitki Aydın is still a victim. Dear friends, this is Sıtki Aydın, a reality of Turkey and the bitter painting brought to Turkey by the EC PARTY. There's no Sitki Aydın in this budget, guys. This is the budget, not the budget of the worker, not the budget of Sıtki Aydın. That's why we call this budget the palace's budget, folks. Dear lawmakers, 43 per cent of the employees registered in Turkey work for minimum wage and the minimum wage is directly concerned with 10 million employees. Therefore, minimum wage is the largest collective contract in Turkey, friends. Today, according to TÜİK, make-up inflation is 25 per cent, but the true inflation of the people is 40 per cent. A minimum wage paid $427 a month at the beginning of 2018 is now receiving $298, friends. So the minimum wage has melted 30 percent on the dollar and is almost reduced to Chinese level, my friends. Today's minimum wage is below the age of hunger and is the price of misery, my friends. Yes, dear friends, today's cutbacks from minimum wage are 426 TL. The tax, which the minimum wage paid indirectly, is 269 euros per month, and the minimum wage is cut from the gross salary for $695 per month, and the annual total is $8,340, friends. But, my dear friends, there are also people here who have raised 15 trillion liras from a five-pound company on Man Island. So we're looking at how much tax money they've paid, yeah, $15 million, so the tax on 80 trillion is zero, guys, zero.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0274par0259	You lose those cases, you pay for the union.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0273par0260	Yes, in a minimum wage year, the Manci haven't paid the state a dime, precious MPs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0274par0261	Tell them that you lost those cases, that you lost the Man case. The President-General lost his case.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0273par0262	To your conscience, dear lawmakers, where's the justice in that? Where's the humanity in that? Where's the conscience in that? That's why we call this budget, not the worker's budget, and that's why we call this budget the budget of those who are taking advantage of the unfinished orphan. Dear lawmakers, minimum wage should be at least $2,200 net and should not be taxed on minimum wage.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0275par0265	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0273par0266	This is what we've done in CHP municipalities; the minimum wage in CHP municipalities is net 2,200 TL, friends, net.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0276par0268	Where is it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0275par0269	Guys, let's not interrupt the vet.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0277par0270	Where did you do it? Your municipalities can't pay, your municipalities can't pay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0278par0271	Best of luck to minimum wage, net $2,200 friends.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0277par0272	He can't pay, he can't pay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0279par0273	Guys, I didn't promise anyone else, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0278par0274	Dear friends, 70 per cent of 12 million pensioners today are paid under minimum wage, and the salaries are cut off from hospitals and medicine. 80% of pensioners are in debt, 4 million pensioners are either working or looking for work. Your salt is dry, you may not know it. Retired pensions melt day by day, my friends. That's why we say this budget is not the pensioner's budget, it's the salt of the dry.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0280par0275	The $190,000 severance suit, $190,000.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0278par0276	Yes, dear friends, in this budget, the President has given him a 26 per cent increase and 10,000 pensions; he is paid 25 times the minimum wage. Of course, we don't have eyes on the President's salary, but how much increase are you going to give the pensioner, the worker, the officer? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Dear friends, if you want a raise as much as your President, pensioner, worker, officer's salary should be increased by at least 26 percent, my friends. Yours truly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0281par0281	In order to speak, Adana MP Burhanettin Bulut. Here you go, Mr. Cloud. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0282par0285	Mr. President, we're talking about health in the budget, but even though it's a matter of public privilege, such as health, such as environment, law, justice, security, unfortunately, the budgetary understanding does not separate them; its health is in the general budget. Based on this planning and budget preparation, two key elements of health care, service servers and service buyers, unfortunately, are treated as stepchildren in this budget. When you look at the service servers, there's already one sadness, and there's already one violence, and although Congress has tried to solve it with the law of violence, unfortunately, it's not solved. In addition, many university-educated health technicians, dieticians, anesthesiologists, health management technicians, radiology, parametrics, physical therapists, pharmacy technicians, perfusion technicians, the image, unfortunately, offer to keep health servers unhappy within this budget, making them unhappy within this practice. The other is service buyers, patients, even though they're considered customers. When we look here, you can receive as much service as your money. The indicator of this is that the last budget has increased by 28 per cent, raised by 48 or so billion, but when you look here, especially when you subtract the number from city hospitals, there's nothing left for service servers, health appliances. About 40 percent of them go to construction. On the other hand, when you look at the rotating capital, it raises the budget higher than the general budget, bringing it to 47 billion by 36 per cent. So that leaves that this budget has already become a budget that a citizen can afford from his own pocket. There is a number in this regard. According to the TÜİK (TÜİK), the rate received by a citizen who was 17 per cent last year has risen to 22.7 per cent. So 14 pens plus, given what the citizens are paying, when you take out the patients who are lying in it, the day-to-days, the dialysis prescriptions, the citizen is already covering about half of the health-related practices. So the service buyers cover half of the services they receive, including public hospitals -- except for the main topics I just mentioned. Of course, by the way, when you look at the medicine part of the job, there are no flu vaccines like rabies vaccines -- in Adana, in Mersin, in Antwerp. As such, health economy and satisfaction have naturally fallen since the past few years. Well, if service servers and service buyers aren't happy about it, who is? In the name of the new era in health, the contractors are happy. When we look at the health budget apart from other budgets, there's one thing in common, and that's the contractor. Five of the palace's contractors are here again. It's the same guy who builds malls, builds hospitals, builds bridges, builds hospitals. In the video, this budget has been opened to the contractor, and it has become a fictional budget through the contractor. So Mr. President's dream city hospitals remain the contractor's luxury hotel. But when you do, you say: "At least these luxury hotels will improve the quality of the ministry. " After three days after the president said, "There will be no more patients dying in line." One of my namesakes in Adana was Burhan Sadik. This patient brought to Adana City Hospital was held in this hospital for six hours while having a heart condition. Later, we had no expert doctor. This patient, who will be called Maraş, was sent to Marash, a three - hour - away place. Ten days later, this patient was dead, and that's the result of the development period in health. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I'd like to ask the Minister, and I'd like to use a minute of the time there.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0283par0294	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0282par0295	In this new era, you have no political responsibility. And of course, in the previous term, whatever you call it, you can call it the undersecretary, you can call it the technical committee, whatever it is, you come with an assignment, not a political responsibility in any way. On that occasion, your most important partner should have vocational rooms, but the Union of Turkish Medical Medicines, the Union of Turkish Dentists, and the Union of Turkish Pharmaceuticals have been unable to make an appointment with you for a long time. I don't understand why you didn't make this appointment. If you are looking for a new partner in understanding, mentality, the state's genetic decorum, then it will not be different from what happened on July 15th. In that sense, I suggest that you start a new chapter in this new era and meet with these institutions as soon as possible with these institutions, which are public property. Thank you very much.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0283par0298	Ankara MP Gamze Taşcıer is in charge. Here you go, Mr. Stonemaker. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0284par0302	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health. I salute the General Assembly. What I'm about to say is not fictional, but the reality of our beautiful country, which is ruled by a government that defies human health based entirely on real numbers, institutions and places. Here's an interesting fact: the average number of respondents to emergency services in the 324 million inhabitants of America is 130 million a year. In England of 53 million, the average number is 25 million a year. Turkey has an average of 115 million per year over the population of emergency services. It is clear that protective health care has failed during your rule and will continue to fail. The health budget, which has a 4.7 per cent share in the overall budget, will destroy people in emergency services this year. The Ministry of Health will continue to focus on treatment services under the name Transformation in Health, thus giving the construction companies a large share of the cake. So with our own money, our hard-working budget will not be able to offer us a qualified and free health care right in 2019. Of course, it's not just about the budget. According to the minister's own figures, only 186 physicians in our country, despite the average of OECD countries where 351 physicians fell to 100,000 people. The number of doctors was already low, and on top of that, you exported a lot of valuable teachers, many young people, because they didn't think like you, or you forbade them from offering health care under the name of the safety investigation. So it's also a matter of politics. We've done the biggest one. There's also the matter of the city hospitals you're bragging about. Look how many people get sick in my country. Look, the people who worked at a city hospital in Elazig have prepared a report. This report also revealed what a freak project city hospitals are. Because of your obsession with greatness, you put millions of dollars of the country in someone's pocket. More than a certain size accepted all over the world is not suitable for hospitals. With the truth in the open, we did only the biggest one. You did the wrong thing to say. According to the employee report, the hospital is so far from the center that it's a problem, it's a problem to come back. The number of patients taken care of at the former state hospital has dropped by half in both clinics and emergency rooms. Dental treatments are down five floors. The number of prosthetics is down 90 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0285par0310	Tell me about Isparta. Isparta. There's 99% satisfaction.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0284par0311	But, of course, you don't put any dust on yourself here, and I'll explain for you, we've built a city hospital that's so big and so beautiful that as a citizen looks at it, it heals, it cures you. The other one, when the hospital is far away, of course, must go to the university hospital or to the private hospital. In fact, to sentence a citizen you call a revolution in health to a private hospital. If you call it a university hospital, it's already filling up, and as a result, city hospitals are not healing, they're going to bring suffering to the nation. Of course, it's just one of these examples. It was discussed in commissions for three weeks, and today we're talking about this bench, and what we're seeing is very clear; it's not a general public budget. Why are we saying this? Because the public's share of health spending has increased, but there are no reductions in the millions that have been transferred to the Ministry's patients' guaranteed hospitals. SMA patients haven't had drugs in years. No pro bono examinations. There's no increase in inflation on the staff salary. As for TITCK pharmacists who don't outnumber a thousand, there's no money, but hospitals like hotels can afford to pay extra millions. Health expenditures are half the OECD average in the budget, but those expenses are not for health, they're for tender spending. So there's no public health budget, so how do I pocket people's money? There's a budget. In short, this budget is bad for your health. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0286par0316	The last word on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group belongs to İstanbul MP Ali Şaltağ. Here you go, Mr. Sugar. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0287par0320	Mr. President, the ministers, we've been talking about taxes and money to be collected and spent here next year for a week, but what we've come up with is something called 40 mules or 40 lines? A sultan asked the person who was brought before him as a criminal. Would you like 40 mules or 40 lines? The man who thought he was going to be executed with forty lines and thought that he had been offered forty mules as an option said forty mules. Every part of his body was tied to a mule, and every part of his body went after a mule, in great pain, when the mules were whipped in different directions. So, what kind of a crime did these people commit, and what kind of freaky situation did they face? You brought in the presidential system, that's why. The budget, which was 822 billion last year, reaches 961 billion TL with an increase of 17 per cent, with the budget offer you received this year. Now, what if we refuse this budget? If we reject this budget, the resumption rate the President has announced will increase by 23.73, so if the 961 billion-billion-billion budget is rejected by the presidential system you're bringing in, 1 trillion will apply a $1 trillion budget, the President will use it. So we're surprised whether we're here to refuse or to say yes. It's a system that you bring in such a freaky system. Normally, people get budget rights. In the name of the nation, the people's deputies are entitled to that budget. From there the rights of Kastamon (Kastamonun) are also used through those MPs, and the rights of Urbana (Furfa), and the rights of the Centipede (Kırklareli). If a system loses its legitimacy, it rots and disappears. In time to come, even if the budget is rejected as he wishes in this system imposed from above, in a system that can use it to increase it, people will no longer pay taxes, people will start to say, "This is no longer my state." For him, a system that is not under the control of the nation, that has no right to rule the nation, will eventually continue to rot and oppress this nation. In 2018, physicians pay for the health care system that the AKP crashed. Doctors and paramedics paid for it... and Fikret Haciosman died last year as a result of an armed assault. Just yesterday, Dr. Ebru Kılıç was struck by a patient who had requested a decomp report and failed to give it to him. We say, "Let the law of violence in health be passed at once, and let's make a deterrent law." Otherwise, the system that has no deterrent, the current situation, is of no use to anyone. In six years, 70,000 health workers were subjected to violence. Let's get a law of violence out of this Parliament in good health. We've got a bill on the Health Commission, so let's get that bill up and running, and let's not lose any more lives. One person lost their lives during the Republican period, 11 physicians died in a state of health during the AKP period. So it's not random, it's a matter of neoliberal policies, of health problems that cost doctors their lives. We are at the end of the OECD countries, behind Mexico and Chile, in terms of health. Now, here's the issue of city hospitals that are now being paid in the budget this year, city hospitals built by the mountains. Outside Ankara, almost all of them are hospitals outside the city. Their land was given to companies for free, by power. We won't have a penny left in our pocket. Whatever you call it, it won't leave a penny in the Ministry of Health's pocket anymore. In 2021, 25 per cent of the Health Ministry budget will be paid for the rent and service costs of these city hospitals, and the roof of Surayyapaşa Hospital has recently collapsed. If this roof were to collapse in the years to come, there wouldn't be any money left in the Health Department's vault to fix that roof. In 2021, 16 billion will be paid 960 million liras to these city hospitals. Now, you love the poem of Necip Fazil. He says you're strange in a nursing home, you're a pariah in your own home. Even the Ministry of Health has become a tenant in its own homeland in the heart of Ankara. I mean, who has the right to be a tenant of Genghis Construction, Kolin Construction, Renaissance Construction in our own home? We lend money to our children here, we oppress our children.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0288par0327	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0287par0328	We leave large debts to our children, debts he cannot pay; we leave a land sold to our children, to these allies, because of capitalizations. As we can't protect our children, 22,000 children in 18 months have unfortunately dealt with child pregnancy, and they are not reported as being forced to do legal procedures unless they are forced to. Is this going to take care of our children, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, or the Department of Internal Affairs, or who's going to take care of these kids? These kids don't belong in pregnancies, they don't belong in children's mothers, they belong in schools and schools. Instead of knitting our children into education, unfortunately, we're a country that deals in child labor. Everyone needs health, everyone's health is threatened. The ministry's budget, unfortunately, will go to construction companies, so our future generations will be even more unhealthy since it will go to the Genghisgil family. I'm saying please think of our children. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0289par0332	Dear friends, this concludes the speech on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0290par0336	Mr. President, I want to make this clear. Mr. Charter just gave a speech here. He used very inappropriate statements that we really object to, that we disapprove of. Here's where your criticism of the Minister of Health sits. No, his wife runs the Ministry of Health. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then what should we do? Shall we start with the grandson of Kildaroğlu? Is that a thing? How many times have we talked about this, so there's no actual expression on this stand about people's families, their wives, their children? The Minister of Health was here, and there was a Minister of National Education here yesterday, if you'd just come out and talk. He's sitting there now, Minister of Health. Therefore, let each one use his language correctly. In other words, Mr. President, this is the claim of dismissal regarding the Afshin. Now, I want to sum up the subject: the plant was transferred here -- there's a long story of it -- all subcontractor contracts were transferred to the new firm here, so here, cleaning, security services were being bought. There's a conflict between one of the new cleaning firms, the one that's being handed over, and one of them says you're going to pay this much. The other says you can't pay one. You can't pay one. There's a conflict. And I'm not going to put this cleaning company to work for 169 employees. It's a threat. If this cleaning company doesn't work, 169 workers will resume their work under the current contract from the new firm. So let's sum it up this way: because of this era, no workers will be fired, out, out, out, out, I'd like to express it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0291par0339	It's been removed, removed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0292par0340	Mr. Mehmet, it's been removed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0293par0341	The minister will answer that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0294par0342	Wait a minute... wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0295par0343	The other thing is, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0294par0345	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0296par0346	You're the 1st party...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0297par0347	The minister will answer that, okay? Are you the minister? What's the Minister doing there?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0294par0348	What are we gonna do, cut him loose, guys? I don't know what you want. Wait a minute... let him talk.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0298par0349	Don't interrupt him, but the problem is, there'll be no subcontractors, they'll be recruited.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0294par0350	Oh, Gürer, don't... Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0298par0352	They're not on the payroll, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0299par0353	Mr. President -- another claim -- is that because he returned to our group and made these accusations, I felt the need to inform the General Assembly. If you calm down and listen, you'll know the truth of the matter, dear friends. Another issue is: Now, look, as many jihadists as there are here, they went through Turkey to Syria. It's a very serious claim. Now, let's have the speaker come forward and prove it from this bench, how many jihadists -- as he calls them -- have crossed over Turkey to Syria; let him bring it, and let him prove his claim here. What kind of a thing is that? Another matter, Mr. President, now, is this conspiracy against Ergenekon. Isn't it the same organization that does both? Now, there's no point in standing up to one and clapping for the other. Indeed, those who say that, while they are being told, are in dissension among themselves. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0300par0357	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0359	I'd like to evaluate as much as my colleague does, if you'll excuse me.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0300par0360	About a minute and a half, that's good.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0361	Two and a half...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0300par0362	No, no.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0363	Okay. Now, Mr. President, one of the things that I'm most angry about in politics is that, of course, we're all allies: let's not get politicians' wives and children involved in politics, let's not make a tool of political polemics. Let's not do this, but we shouldn't challenge it. If politicians don't, people do. I mean, if you place the family ephrasing, friends, relatives, and political relatives, regardless of an assessment at the point of driver's license and merit, if you appoint them, let alone the politicians' speech, they'll disturb and bleed public conscience. Look, if I'm not mistaken, the late Menderes has denied his son's desire and demand for trade, I am the Prime Minister, and it is not appropriate for you to trade. Now, where we've come from, where we've come from. I don't really want a politician's wife, children, to be put into politics, but I have the right to do this: for example, I don't know how moral it is to have former lawmakers become ambassadors.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0302par0367	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0368	For example, I don't know how moral it is for a party to have a lot of former lawmakers become presidents. After that, the ruler of the state comes out and says there's a brain migration. Why not a brain drain? If you fill the state with those who pledge and obey you without looking at the driver's license, without looking at the good upbringing, without looking at the merits, even with those who worship you, Turkey's well-grown brains will be gone.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0303par0369	Who prays?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0370	I do. Well, you know what, I'll tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0303par0371	Is there anyone who worships?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0372	Oh, for God's sake!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0303par0373	Not that much, but not that much.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0374	Don't you know what many AK PARTIES say when they say worship Erdogan? Don't do this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0303par0375	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0376	Now, when I told you from here yesterday, some of my AK PARTY friends were angry. I said, "You know all the good things in the land from Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the bad things from outside and from God. Fear God." No matter the state's mechanisms, no matter the driver's license or merit... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0304par0379	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0380	If you appoint all the government's staff without looking at licenses and merits, there will be murders and catastrophes under the name of the state, then you will have no right to refer them to God. In that respect, if our friends did something directly related to a first-degree member of our congressman, I'd say we should not just look at the person who did it, we should look at the person who did it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0384	Mr. President, for the record, Mr. Altay, look, read the transcripts.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0385	What did he say?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0386	Now, who is running the Ministry of Health?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0387	Who's running it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0388	He's using a statement. Look, I mean, it's not right, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0389	Mr. Yasar will answer for himself.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0390	What you're doing is not right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0391	Give your word to Mr. Yasar according to 60, and let him answer, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0306par0392	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0393	That's where the Health Minister is sitting. Ask him how he's running it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0301par0394	He's not a stammer, he's not a mute, he's not deaf, he'll answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0395	So the statements you're using here...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0307par0396	Ladies and gentlemen of the group, please do not speak among yourselves.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0305par0397	Mr. President, look, I'd like to point out that we've rejected that tone. If you're going to have a level of discussion, come out here with your data, your reviews, your reviews, the ministries have noted, and we've responded to what happened on our party. But that's what they say when you're out of your mind, they do it here. You don't have the right frost, and then you don't have the right one. Is there another person sitting next to the Minister of Health? Is someone else sitting next to the Minister of National Education? So, Mr. President, these are hurtful words. If they insist on it, we'll have something to say. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0308par0400	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0309par0401	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0310par0402	Mr. President, I'd like a word for 60.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0309par0403	Sir, he used my name to pick on me, and I'd like to give you an answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0311par0404	Yes, Mr. Yilmaz. Mr. Charter...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0312par0406	Mr. President, I stand by what I said. I, as a member of parliament, think I'm one of the most experienced lawmakers in this parliament. Who is our Secretary of the Treasury as of right now? He's the President's son-in-law. The groom is taking care of the treasure. There should be no feisty. The lady, spoken in public, has a partnership in health care companies.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0313par0408	Prove it, since you're experienced. Mr. Charter, if you're experienced, prove it! Prove it! Prove it, brother, you're making a bet. Wait a minute... let's listen to Mr. Charter, and then I'll give you a say if you want to answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0312par0410	Our Minister of Health for this is the Minister of Health who will give the answer, even though the executive friend here has the right to speak to the group's deputy president. He'll be in touch with the General Assembly in a moment. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0313par0413	Mr. President, the reference is to our President. It is Mr. Charter's duty to prove his claims here. I counted three names, and if he doesn't prove it, he's a mufter, and I want to make it clear and clear. That's what he's telling the president of our party. If you're such an experienced speaker, you've been acting as Speaker of Parliament, you can't speak without the document, without the wisdom, and you can't slander people. This can't be happening!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0314par0414	Mr. Yilmaz, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0315par0416	Thank you, Reverend President. One of the clerks said that we appointed the coupters in connection with the appointment to this Coast Guard Command, stating that the name of Ismet Yilmaz (Secretary Minister of National Defence) was mentioned at another appointment. It is normal in the state that the government appointed Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit and his cabinet as Chief of General Staff of the Kenan Universe, which has been confirmed by the court's decision that he had struck.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0316par0418	You're gonna do it because he did it? No way! Mr. Secretary, it didn't happen!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0315par0419	So what are you gonna say? When you're the one who appointed the Chief of Staff who did the coup, it's normal to say that when we were ministers, when we appointed someone, he appointed the enforcer. It's not the right word to say.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0316par0421	Mr. Secretary, it didn't happen! You're gonna do it because he did it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0422	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0423	Mr. President, according to 60, I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0424	I can't hear you guys, just a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0425	Mr. President, according to 60, I want a word because there's an explanation for what I said, and it's twisted.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0426	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0428	Mr. Vice President of the group -- my non-verbal -- that's not what I said about the Ergenekon case. I've taken this into consideration, and I'll repeat it from here. You know what he says? The Ergenekon cases, which began on the roof of a house in Istanbul, began on the charge of 12/6/2007 after a report from Tripoli. The operation against Fetullah Smiley and his organization against the community began after years of conspiracy in a case carried out by false legal errors, false evidence, without evidence, with false accusations. The prosecutor underlined it, and I read it from here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0429	It may not be enough time, it's running out.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0430	That's not my word. In reality, there is no such thing as a terrorist organization called Ergenekon. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, just a second, just a word...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0433	But I'll tell you something, I listened to the vice president of the group, and he didn't deny what you said, and he said, "Well, then what do you call it?" So that's the thing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0434	No, I'm going to say something, like I'm saying it and I'm claiming the other one.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0435	Okay, so one minute according to 60.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0436	I'll read a sentence right away, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0437	Okay, one minute is up, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0438	A terrorist organization called Ergenekon has never really happened." I'm not saying that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0439	There was no objection to what you said.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0318par0440	İstanbul 4. He is speaking in the Criminal Court's debate on the 2017/16 basis. It's not my invention, it's the law, it's the injustice, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, it's the law, I'm against it. I don't care. That's what I'm saying. If there's lawlessness, I'm against it all, no matter whose name they're made by. During September 12th, I defended myself with bags in my hand, and I did it in the time of the Kenan Universe, and I will do it now. No matter where he comes from, we have to meet everyone with the law.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0317par0443	Well, thank you, thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Dear friends, we will now begin our speeches on behalf of the National Party for Action. First, Gaziantep MP Sermet Atay will speak. Here you are, Mr. Atay. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0319par0504	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to address the budget of the Ministry of Interior, Police General Directorate, the General Command of the Gendarme and the Coast Guard Command in 2019. I salute you all. As you know, after the presidency went into the government's system, there was a restructuring at the Ministry of Interior. In this configuration, he was removed from the command of the General Command of the General Staff and the Coast Guard Command and was taken into the general law enforcement class and linked to the Ministry of Interior. This change is a positive development in terms of determining the full duty of the gendarme, who is in the military structure and is serving as a law enforcement officer. After that change, there have been some setbacks and flaws. There have been legal changes in the legislation that has come to our House in recent days to comply with the gendarme's Ministry of Interior. However, a number of social and autonomy rights are also needed. As such, it is the staff of the Police General Directorate, which serves as the Ministry of the Interior of the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command. We also feel that social rights provided to the police force, such as the police, should be brought to the General Command of the Gendarmes and Coast Guard Command, and that interagency equality should be achieved. At the same time, the age limit of a police officer working in our Police General Directorate is 45 years old, while a police officer working in the General Command and Coast Guard and a police officer is 35 years old in the promotions of police officers and specialists. This is an inequality and injustice to the police and sergeants of expertise. It's wrong to compare him to sergeants who still serve in the Armed Forces, even though he's attached to the Ministry of Internal Affairs as a law enforcement officer. We believe that veteran sergeants and veteran gendarmes working at the Gendarme and Coast Guard Command should be connected to the Ministry of Interior and then subject to the same promotion system, along with their counterparts at the Police Headquarters. Again, the training period of officers, petty officers and police officers in school is considered service, and the absence of one year of vocational training from our veteran gendarmes in school from the service and the duration of the insurance period is a major victim to our expert gendarmes. In addition, we feel that an additional 3600 indicators planned to be applied to nurses, police, religious officials in the future should be taken advantage of by veteran gendarmes and specialist sergeants. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers have been conducted as of October 2018, with a total of 524,808 personnel, including 276,064 police personnel, 190,414 police personnel, 5,935 Coast Guard, 52,935 security guards. What we want to point out here is the state of the Interior Ministry personnel involved in the coup attempt on July 15th. The leader has made it clear on several occasions that the institution, which should first be staffed within the state and in television programmes and interviews, is the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. That is because these two ministries hold the mechanism of justice, security, and government of the country. For this reason, the PKK has tried to become a member of the Ministry of Interior. A total of 38,789 people were discharged by the Ministry of Interior for their links to the terrorist organization in investigations and investigations carried out after the coup attempt on July 15th. He is the head of the estate of 428, 31,209, the Police General Directorate of Security, 4,139, the gendarme, and the employee of the Coast Guard Command of 349. Of these, 1,873 police chiefs are 1,789 officers-orgenal officers. This shows that the Ministry of Interior is the institution that has been most attacked and victimised by the terrorist organization. The Ministry of Interior continues its mission in 2018 to complete its reduced staff by taking in 17.574 to the police, 21,632 to the gendarmes, 540 to the Coast Guard, 7.010 staff to complete its work. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers, what we want to point out here is that the Ministry, which has been subjected to so many attacks by a congregation, should not be released from a new recruitment community and be under the influence of the other congregation. We feel that no religious community should play a role in hiring staff at any ministry, not become a staff. Otherwise, it is clear that a new danger will arise when one congregation is released and under the influence and pressure of the other congregation. As the congregations and cult members are cleared of our domestic security institutions, our institutions will become stronger and more effective in the fight against terrorism. We believe that there must be a fair, fair test system in hiring personnel and that those who are successful must be taken. In that sense, we're with our Home Secretary to the end. Mr. President, our esteemed deputies, our heroic police, our gendarmes and Coast Guard Command personnel, are actively and decisively engaged in the fight against terrorism, one of our country's biggest problems. By God's leave, he will be destroyed in the source of terror in a total dispute. In the fight against terrorism, the old ways have been abandoned, and now the process of the terrorist failure to dominate the city and the countryside, the cutting of logistical support, the detection of terrorism and the uninterrupted location of the terrorist has been adopted. So the terrorists' movements were restricted, their financial support was reduced, and their ability to recruit terrorism was taken from them. The PKK, which could not be organised, unable to act abroad and directed terrorists to Syria and Iraq, a war zone. As part of the anti-terrorism campaign, 101 mayors have been dismissed and replaced by trustees for their connections to 94 separatists, 94 terrorist organizations in 10 counties, 69 districts and 22 municipalities. Many of the displaced municipalities have been identified as providing financial, logistical support to the terrorist organisation and have been severely hit by these dismissals. We see it as a positive development for our government to feel its presence in the region and to cut the terror organization's ties to municipalities; as the National Movement Party, we think such interventions are appropriate and necessary. Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, the PKK, the political representatives of the KCK/TY terrorist organization have been saying things like they're constantly fighting drugs, and when we get to the bottom of it, we see that the PKK terrorist organisation is earning 1.5 billion dollars a year from drugs. The largest drug supplier in Turkey is a corrupt and dishonest PKK terrorist organization. With operations, we are happy to observe that this organization has been hit by drug revenue sources. In this sense, we celebrate our heroic Turkish police and our gendarmes, wishing for further success. One of our country's biggest problems is the Syrian refugee problem. Especially in the southeast, the Syrian problem has become a growing problem in Gaziantep, Hatay, Şanlıurfa and Milis. The infrastructure of these cities has collapsed, life has become expensive, social tissues have been corrupted. We believe that the blood flowing in Syria should be stopped and sent safely to the Syrians who live in our country. Our concern is that if these individuals are given initiative to return to their home country, many of them will not return to their country, and this will cause serious trouble for our country. According to official figures, 4 million 709, 135 foreign nationals live in our country and 3 million 549,000 of them are Syrian. We believe that these Syrians are at least 4 million with unofficial figures. Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers have been fingered on a very important issue with our President's initiative and a tragedy has been ended: the issue of the Ahýska Turks. After World War II, 66,000 Turks of Ahiska, whose men were all on the front line with the Russians, were carried out into the carriages by Stalin with an unfair and unconscionable decision and were exiled to Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzistan and Uzbekistan. 20,000 Ahiska Turks died of hunger, cold, and disease on this road. Our country has made a very good decision and has decided that 3,235 members of its lineage -- a Council of Ministers decision dated 2015 -- will be placed in the district of Erzincan Grapelı and Bitlis. While the Immigration Administration has completed the housing process of 2,763 people, 472 people remain in residence. In order for these residents to perform their professions in Ukraine, they must be given diplomas and jobs. No work has ever been done on this subject. For example, how will a Ahiska Turk, a doctor in Ukraine, a nurse, a teacher, do what in Turkey, and perform his profession? Will their diplomas be recognized? [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm finishing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0320par0524	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0319par0525	Otherwise there will be a new victimization of our relatives who we brought to Turkey to address this victim. Although nearly four years have passed since the decision of the Council of Ministers, there is still the Turk of Ahıska, who has not gained Turkish citizenship, but has been settled in Turkey. We ask our Minister of the Interior to examine this issue, specifically ask that the Ahiska Turks, who did not become citizens in the first place, be transferred to citizenship and to be equal to their current diplomas in order to carry out their professions. As I complete my statement, I wish my respects to our country and our country, the Ministry of the Interior, the Police General Directorate, the General Command of the Police, and the Coast Guard Command budgets.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0321par0529	Now it's time for Düzce MP Umit Yilmaz. Here you go, Mr. Yilmaz. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0322par0533	Mr. President, dear MPs, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs budget, to salute our great Assembly and our beloved nation. As of the region, Turkey is in a position to keep its security policies at its highest. The situation of Syria and Iraq is evident in the south of our country. On the other hand, while there has been a bumpy process in our relations with some countries on our eastern border, it threatens our national security, especially when illegal immigrants from Afghanistan have come through Iran in recent years. The tension between Russia and Ukraine, our neighbor in the north of the Black Sea, resulted in the Russia's inclusion of Crimea, a relative of ours. Although our relations with Russia have been increasing recently, it is not possible for us to accept the involvement of Crimea. The tension between Ukraine and Russia will also lead to a chance that the heat of conflict and war will return to the European Union-Russia war, which will pose a risk of spreading across the world. It is unacceptable for Greece and the Aegean Islands and the Greek Cypriots to seek natural gas and oil and gas by ignoring Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus off the coast of Cyprus, to create a region of oil and oil and gas. In this regard, we too are in the region. We find the policy very accurate and successful. In recent years, developments in Syria have threatened our national security in many ways. Terror zones are being formed on the edge of our border, and PYD-YPG regions, which are the arms of ISIS and Kurdistan Workers' Party (PKK), share attacks on our country from their locations. As a result of these developments, Operation Firat Shield, which began on August 24, 2016, was cleared of the operation of Cobanbey, Cerablus, Azez and El Bab in the ISIS region. The operation against the PKK/PYD-YPG terror organization, which then began to organize and settle in Afrin, which infiltrated our border and launched attacks, has been ordered to neutralize more than 4,500 terrorists. Afrin has also been established. We find our government's approach to counterterrorism accurate and consistent in recent years. Wherever the terror threat comes from, anyone who threatens our national ranks and security must be destroyed. To allow thousands of truckers of arms aid to form a terrorist zone by hiding under the skirts of our allies and the hypocritical United States, who appear to be our strategic partner, is to endanger Gaziantep, Uruguay, Mardini, or rather the entire Republic of Turkey. The state of the Republic of Turkey is strong. The Turkish nation is great. He's always there for his army and his police. He is strong and powerful in his territory. Our support for the Firat Shield and Operation Olive Dalli as the Nationalist Movement Party is widely known. We want you to know that we will give the same support for the security of the country in the operation to the east of Fırat. Those who opposed the Firat Shield and Operation Olive Dalli have seen the entire Turkish nation and have given the answer they deserve. While these are happening outside our borders, the recent history of their reflection has developed: Bloody terror, which reached its end in 2002, has been relaunched as a result of the errors in the fight against terrorism, and the security of our country has been compromised. The nationalist Movement Party's stance on terrorism has been wide open and precise since its past. It is understood by painful experiences that need to be fought, not to negotiate with terrorism. In the process of dissolution, called the opening process, the bloody terrorist organization, the pits in our cities and towns, have turned our country into a fire site with barricades, explosives set up, and attempts to launch, but it remains the whims of those who are waiting for the destruction of the country with a treacherous and sneaky desire. Now they're trying to build up their appetites again and try their best to lure the country back into the process of tearing it apart. Those who lay their backs on the bloody terror organization, the city vehicles, the terror pits and barricades are as pathetic as the boilers -- the fake -- the peace -- and the democracy -- were to contaminate the values of all mankind. The hunger strike against the Turkish nation as an excuse for the isolation of the leader of a bloody terrorist organization trying to control Kandil. The imperialist forces who wanted to bring the PKK and the country into disintegration, such as the other countries in its region, tried with a treacherous coup attempt on July 15th, which they had failed to solve, and could not find what they had hoped for, thank God. It is also known throughout the world that frauds who try to look cute by betting on the evil of drug use, who fake love by betting on the rights of girls, have acquired the income of the PKK for drug and trafficking, and that the girls who have been kidnapped in the mountains have been abused. It is not an attitude that we can accept as the National Movement Party, when those who do not speak to the Kandil are trumpeting the bloody terror organization as doves of peace from the people's stand. Dear lawmakers, since 2015, the process of dissolution, called the process of activation, has effectively begun with the fight against terrorism by intelligent statesmen and executives. Following the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, the members of the group were wiped out from within our security forces and state, and the results of terrorism began to be successful. I congratulate Mr. President, our Home Secretary, our Turkish Armed Forces and all our security forces who have fought with determination and conduct this struggle. Here, in addition to the determination of the state's top brass, it would be disloyal to ignore the labor and struggle of the gendarmes, the police, and the Coast Guard. It is especially admirable that, after July 15th attempted treasonous coup, the group members who have been wiped out of the institutions we count have reduced the number of employees in the institutions, but that our security forces are actively continuing the fight against terrorism by adding its night to its day. Dear lawmakers, the rights and social rights of our police and carabinieri, who have worked with their lives in the fight against terrorism, must be improved. Police members expect us to give them 3,600 additional indicators first. The main expectations of the veteran gendarmes who serve in the armed forces are improvements in their rights to staff and autonomy. The two agencies that put their lives on the line in the fight against terrorism and we can't pay for their rights are the apple of the eye of our nation and the debt of our necks as a result of our commitments to fulfill their expectations. Another institution that has been associated with Internal Affairs recently is the county population managerships. In addition to the changes in identity card, new tasks, such as passports, driver's licenses, make it very difficult for the population managers to work in a fixed and narrow area. Busy work in the district and county population managers continues at some times with work on the weekend, such as the election period. Despite the weighty responsibility of certain court decisions taken on individuals, such as immediately being carried out by the population managers, the position of the county's population manager is a sign that its staff in charge is underrated. As the National Movement Party Group, we think there should be an arrangement on these matters. Our proposal for the matter will be prepared and presented to the House. The country's recent number of refugees has reached 4,900,000, with the development of civil war and Afghanistan in Syria. Of course, it is not possible for us to turn our backs on these brothers who are deeply historically related to the Ottoman Empire as the Republic of Turkey. In the civil war, especially in Syria, the slaughter of women, children, and old people is something we cannot ignore as a nation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0323par0550	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0322par0551	However, some of the recent tribulations, and some of the incidents involving refugees, are disturbing. As the National Movement Party, our policy on refugees from Syria is clear and clear. In Syria, the security zones must be formed immediately, and our Syrian brothers and sisters in our country must be returned to their homeland and placed in these areas. Meanwhile, the assessment of male refugees between 17 and 44 years of age, with their number of 850,000, in the creation and organisation of safe zones, will encourage and prevent the disturbances. Mr. President, with this feeling and thought, I wish the Ministry of Interior's final account in 2017 and the budget of 2019 to our nation and our state.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0323par0554	Thank you. Now it's time for Eskişehir MP Metin Nurullah Sazak. Here you go, Mr. Sazak. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0324par0559	Mr. President and valued lawmakers, I have made a pledge today on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to assess budgets of the General Directorate of the Immigration Administration and the President of Afet and Emergency Management in 2019. I salute your high council. The National Movement Party, along with the presidential government system, which we support with all its institutions and organizations, has been linked to the Ministry of Interior of AFAD, as it is known publicly as the President of Disaster and Emergency Management. In this regard, temporary housing centres for AFAD have been transferred to the Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate. As a result of this, the budget of 2019 was reduced by 38 per cent to 1 billion 406 million, 671 million liras, while the Immigration Administration's budget increased by 436 per cent to 2 billion 307 million 541 million liras. Unfortunately, our country is in a geographically destructive geography, like earthquakes, floods, landslides, and storms, where all the disasters of nature have been inflicted. It has caused devastating earthquakes, such as the North Anatolian Fay Line, Marmara and Düzce earthquakes that passed through our geography. These earthquakes were felt not only in the Marmara region, but in our entire heart geography. Thousands of our citizens have died, more than 100,000 buildings have been destroyed, while millions of our people have been negatively affected. Geography is our destiny. It should be expected that our country will suffer such material and spiritual disasters in the future as it did in the past. After all the pain we've been through, we've covered our wounds as a nation, but we can't get past the memorial service. In order for these unspeakable sufferings to never happen again, as a country, we must immediately implement scientific and technological regulations against disasters. From here, as people living in this geography, the mission of AFAD (AFAD) should be in every phase of our lives. The AFAD (AFAD) system of management and decision support (AFAD) must be considered to be a major innovation and necessity for the use of technology to reach those in need faster. Sadly, in recent years, rapid and warped construction has destroyed earthquake gatherings and tent areas. However, it is a pleasure to hear that the ministry has given its promise that disaster sites will not be opened after this, and in the event of the use of these areas of public interest beyond its purpose, the deterrents must be restructured and implemented. Public opinion, for its own safety, has to take care of these areas, the media and the media have to take care of them. The mescurial areas must be inspected regularly, our citizens must be informed and strictly prohibited from zoning. Urban transformations are positive, as long as they are in accordance with the new earthquake regulations and are just. A landslide, earthquake, flood beds, and avalanche-threatening areas must be banned. The existing stone and wood structures found in rural areas, such as the village, the mezza and the plateau, should be rebuilt with materials such as concrete, steel construction, which can withstand earthquakes. In this sense, the villages and mehras built in line with culture will become the center of attraction. Clearly, this will return to the territory of our people, who are stuck in cities with a social reflection, and will also be expected to increase in agriculture and animal production. In addition to natural disasters, public awareness should be raised by public attention through the work of the AFAD on how public opinion should act against the chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats of the century, as well as against the war techniques of the century. In the event of disaster, researchers with sufficient knowledge and skill to perform any loss-reduction activities in middle education and higher education institutions should be trained as entrepreneurial civil defence experts. A conscious generation, such as survival in nature, fire, floods, and earthquake protection, should be raised from elementary school. Public awareness and training programmes should be made against disasters, and search and rescue units should be formed in cooperation with organised groups consisting of civil defence experts and volunteers -- in cooperation with local residents. There is another painful lesson that the August 17 earthquake has taught us, which is the importance of post-natural disaster communication. The transmission system that collapsed after the earthquake prevented access to the area, causing the deaths of many of our citizens. It is a positive development in which AFAD's law enforcement forces are being introduced within the units providing intelligence, communication and coordination among themselves. With these developments, the importance of earthquake mapping should not be ignored, and all the benefits of technology must be benefited. I would also like to point out that according to the 2018 Global Humanitarian Aid Report, the country, which has given the most humanitarian aid in the past year, is the Republic of Turkey with nearly $8 million. AFAD co-ordinatorial aid has been given to many countries from Palestine to Pakistan, from Myanmar to Somalia. It is my wish that our kinsmen, the oppressed and the innocent Turkmen, and the persecuted East Turkians, will also be helped. The efforts to do so will partially compensate for the damage done to our family members. This aid and effort will boost confidence in the Turkish state and its nation, and will contribute to the leadership and example of the Turkish nation, which has been on the side of the oppressed throughout history. The irregular migration movement, a result of imperialist policies, has been one of the biggest problems in the world, not only in our country. According to the United Nations, we are the country most affected by the migration wave of Syrian refugees, who, at every turn, are expected to improve human conditions, and who have closed the borders of what is supposed to be called the West. One of our country's main agendas has long been the Syrian asylum seekers in our country, and the public debates about the social and legal status of these people, the solution to problems that arise in this area through the influence of social and cultural differences in society. As a result of imperialist policies and bad governances, it stands before us as a fact that revenues and prosperity can't be divided fairly. In some parts of the world, people are condemned to live in misery, while the rest is consumed by high and insane prosperity. Many countries stand by and watch over the massacres in front of the world and the United Nations. Although 193 countries are members of the United Nations, five permanent members of the Security Council with veto authority are incompatible with the principles of justice and justice. An irrefutable truth is that this unjust and unfair order must be changed. Otherwise, as developing countries, they will maintain their lives as a classed free slave, who thinks they are an intellectually defined world member who is seeking aid from the so-called human rights and the ECHR. This is contrary to Turkish fithrat as a notice of the fact that he cannot tolerate false freedom. The Republic of Turkey is the continuation of two thousand years of state tradition, and from the day it was founded, it was tolerant of refugees who were victims and oppressed; it opened its doors to these people without segregation of religion, language and race. Since 1923, our country has hosted more than 1.5 million people by 2011, including the Balkans, Germany, the Aleppoce massacre and the First Gulf War, and, as you know, 3.6 million Syrians and more than 100,000 Afghans, as a result of internal turmoil in Syria in 2011. Our country's geographical position remains uncontrollably unrestrained migration activities as a result of 1,855km of Iraq, Syria, the Iranian border and chaos in the region. Most Syrian refugees in our country live in cities, not in camps near the border. It is obvious that the situation causes and causes some social and health problems. These people need to stay close to the borders, provide humanitarian needs with help and help to be accountable. In the Turkish health system, intensive asylum seekers must be looked into direct and indirect effects on protective health care, such as family planning, pregnancy tracking, mother baby and sound child monitoring, immunization programme. As a matter of fact, we have been told that diseases such as measles and polio, which we call a regular inoculation, have been seen in undocumented asylum seekers living in camps. There should also be a public microfluorate change due to different microfluories carried by asylum seekers, not only by known infectious diseases, but also by social microfluoria changes, and the variety of diseases that this can create, immunism and drug resistance, in terms of public health. Congressmans, there is a generation of about 1 million and 250 thousand people growing up in the population of immigrants, tired, scared, homeless, and missing property. This generation is fortunate to have taken refuge in the Turkish state. The fate of the leaf torn from its branch should not be forgotten that the plans were made a hundred years ago in this geography, but instead of vicious debates and daily magazines, long-term solutions to our history, to our identity. These guests must be prevented from creating human resources for terror, for ulterior motives. Those who are able to return to their country must be identified and sent back, as well as diplomatic contacts should be provided so that the internal turmoil in Syria will be resolved and the territorial integrity will remain intact. As long as the country's integrity is not met, the region is practically a terrorist nest and poses a threat to Turkey, despite measures taken by the migration wave. These threats to disrupt Syria's integrity have been thwarted following the Firat Shield and the olive branch military operations to the north of Syria. After Turkey's successful operations, even a small group of Syrian refugees have been brought back to their country. The successes of these operations must continue with an operation to the east of Firat, and feed and foreign-supported terrorist organizations must be cleared of the region, asylum seekers must return to their homes in safety. Before I stop speaking with the belief that our state and the great Turkish nation have the power to solve these problems and that its primary duty is to address the establishment of justice, that it will be directed towards jihad, I would like to remind you once again that the brother country of Azerbaijan, the late President of Abulfez Elçibey, said: "Even if you forget that you are a Turk, the enemy will never forget. I wish you the best of your budget, and I salute your high council.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0325par0583	Thank you, Mr. Sazak, good timing. Now it's time for Heromarash MP Sefer Aycan. Here you go, Mr. Aycan. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0326par0588	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the budgets of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and the President of State. I salute you all. Before I begin, I'd like to point out that I don't agree with the way things have been brought up and brought up in 1978 about Kahramanmarash for the past two days. Other than that, the victim of that day, we know what happened that day as a high school student. I don't suppose there's anyone else among you who might have lived that day. We're the young men who were hit by POL-DER that day, and we're the Kahramans who got their house shot and poisoned by drinking water. And I don't think it's appropriate for me not to be made a promise knowingly. I'm going to hold a press conference on this tomorrow. Due to my respect for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and my understanding of responsible politics, I will also drop the issue. Now I'm going to talk about the budget; I'm going to talk about family, work and social services. Sure, what am I supposed to talk about in seven minutes? I'll have a word with you. First of all, when it's called family problems, there's a lot to talk about, but I'm going to talk about divorces that hurt me. No matter what we do, marriages are getting smaller in Turkey. However, divorces are increasing. According to TÜİK data, marriages were reduced by 4 per cent in 2017 and divorces increased by 2 per cent. The number of divorces occurred in 2017 was 128,400. There's a fight in the street, a fight between men and women, a fight between families on the street, a woman's murder on the street. Now, divorce is a problem of its own, but more importantly, it's the divorce of families with children, and there are problems following the divorce of these children; there are custody issues, children having a child's work-up problem. We've proposed law to Congress as the National Movement Party Group. We're waiting for this to come up as soon as possible, or you make an offer, and we'll talk about your offer, but let's get this over with. And these problems are also issues from the Civil Law, some of them. In the civil law, the judge gives custody to the mother or father." he says. That is indeed unjust and unlawful. You can get a divorce, but motherhood is forever. You can't tell anyone to give up their children. That's where the world comes from. Our civil law gives the child one-sided custody. This needs to be removed. Of course, the woman is sacred; heaven is at the feet of the mothers, but fathers are not bad people, and it is not right to accept them all as bad in advance and ask her to give up her child. Other than that, no one uses the child. It is not right to use your child to perform, to do politics over the child, or to beat each other up over the child. And the other issue is custody, and this is the case with custody, and it's especially about alimony. Free, free, brave things to go through. Second issue, Department of Labor. In fact, the ministry's main job -- combined, in the middle of the carmbo -- is to do the most important work, the task of working, the constitutional duty. In Article 49 of our Constitution, work is everyone's rights and homework." he says. The state says: "You have to work, it is your duty; it is also your right." And the state says: "The state develops policies to address unemployment, it produces solutions." I mean, this is the constitutional duty of the Ministry of Labor. He needs to create jobs, but there is one fact in Turkey: unemployment. Unemployment is 11 per cent according to official figures. 3 million people are unemployed. That's the way it looks, the official number is 3 million, but I think it's more. Then we need to create a business opportunity. I'm not going to extend it, I'm saying directly to the National Movement Party: we need to create jobs, we need to implement jobs creative policies, we need to support the small entrepreneur, we need to support the business, we need to support the agriculture industry, we need to promote animalism, we need to increase initiative by giving individual loans. Other than that, there is a much more important problem: unemployment is 20 percent for young people with higher education. What does that tell us? Turkey shows that there is an error in planning. We take all these kids to colleges, but when those kids finish school, they can't get a job. We're opening up a college. Let's open it. We've had over 200 universities, we've opened a university of applied sciences to every district, and we've established a number of professions here, no definitions, no job descriptions, no returns. Here, environmental health technicians, dieticians, optimists, as many jobs as the rest of the world, they're all unemployed. Then it's a shame about these kids. It's a shame to waste time, time, and effort on these kids. The pharmacist in this country is unemployed. Is that a thing? A graduate of Ankara University School of Pharmaceuticals is unemployed. Then there are mistakes in planning, we haven't done it, we haven't done it in years. He had the State Planning Agency, he had to plan human resources, and now he doesn't have the State Planning Agency. We've established a human resources office, hopefully, that will solve the problem.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0327par0598	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0326par0599	The youth of higher education is unemployed. Well, we put them up, we put them up, they want jobs from the government, and that's the government's Chief of Staff. We did it wrong there, too. All this time we've been doing it wrong and we've been doing it right. The Constitution 128 states that the main jobs of the state are seen by government officials. Yes, there is 4/B/B in Law 657, but there is no contract and contractual work, short-term work, no contract for permanent work. It is against the Constitution to work under contract. We want every contracted staff and subcontractor staff in any form to be put on staff. That's the nationalist movement's view. There's a lot to talk about, but I'm running out of time, and you're about to cut it, so I'll tell you without interrupting. Thank you, my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0328par0604	Thank you. I'm not cutting, the system's cutting automatically. It's time for Istanbul MP Arzu Erdem. Here you go, Mr. Erdem. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0329par0610	Thank you. Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my National Movement Party Group regarding the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services. The Veteran Assembly salutes the saintly Turkish nation who watches us on their screens. Dear lawmakers, we're interviewing a very important budget right now, each of them the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and the Ministry of Health, but when we call it the Ministry of Health, we're talking about a budget that actually concerns 50 percent of the community, especially at the women's point, but it's very important in this regard, which makes 50 percent of the other percent of the people who grow, feed them, make them a good son to the nation, which we call the mothers of the gentlemen here. What's on our woman's agenda? Our woman has violence on her agenda, abuses. Yes, we're all working together on these things, and first of all, we all owe a woman, a mother, a brother, a child, especially not being abused or abused, to have the necessary solutions. I'm sure we all speak the same language on this political matter, we all wish for the same wish together. From this point of view, we all need to look at what needs to be done. Let's go over it. Yes, why is she abused, abused, why is the person we call "the crown of our head" in society, "the one we call "the brother," "the one we call "the brother," "the son"? When we make an assessment of this, the economy actually comes in at the beginning of the job, which is employment. When we say employment, we have to do our part to ensure that our woman participates more effectively in employment. According to TÜİK data, there is a 100 per cent difference once in a while, compared to the working rate of men and the working rate of women. It's important to all of us that women are involved in decision-making mechanisms, in politics, effectively have a say in society, because where there's a woman, where there's grace, where there's a woman, where there's beauty, where there's discipline, where there's a woman, there's absolute and absolute success, because whatever we're doing, we're doing with our heart first. From that point of view, there are one or two other things that need to be done based on these evaluations. While the Minister is here, ma'am, I especially want to talk about the debt of birth. For about three or four years, and before that, as our National Movement Party group, we've had our efforts to give women the right to be born before the NGO entrance, we've had legal proposals. The Constitution has a principle of equality. According to the principle of equality, men can make military loans before the entrance to the SGK. Minister, if we're looking for the principle of equality for our women, if we want to do something to those who are old and who are old and who are trying to fill the number of bonus days here, let's all start here and give our women the right to owe birth together. I tried to get into the system for the QA, but I'm afraid I'm down to 20. So, Mr. Speaker, I'd like to ask you from the stand what I'd like to ask you not to put our Acting Speaker, Sentop. In the same way, women's shelters for our women need to be taken care of, and in all the districts with more than 100,000 populations, women's shelters. We have 201 counties, especially women's shelters. And so we asked our previous minister in our motion to question them, and we said, "How many districts should we have women's shelters, according to the city's regulations, and how many are there now available?" There are now women's shelters in 135 districts against 201 districts. What does that mean? Actually, we're short on women's shelters. Is it important to open a women's shelter, or is it important to protect her, to prevent her from getting violent, or is it important to take her and try to protect her after she gets violent? Both are very important, which means we need to take protective measures, along with the legal arrangements and other arrangements. The other thing is what needs to be done about employment. If they are in a shelter to ensure that women who have been harmed, abused, or abused in this way are brought to public life, we must make sure that employment is created, employed, and that they do not return to the scene of violence after leaving the asylum, or that their disadvantaged situations do not continue. Again, our disabled... I don't really want to say that our society -- I don't really want to say that it's disadvantaged -- but we're also in this sense, we're trying to actually exist in society without a hand, leg, arm, and an arm, and we want to work. We're talking about a people who are trying to work, and we're talking about a lot. When you look at Europe, you see the disabled on the street and you say, "How many disabled are there?" In fact, the disabled population of our society, the Turkish nation, unfortunately, is sort of cut off from their homes because they are in their homes. What are we supposed to do? In fact, to get together, to get them out of that house, we have to get them jobs, first of all. In this respect, we are delighted to hear from Mr. Minister of National Education yesterday about our disabled teachers. The disabled teacher made a specific statement that the purchase would take place in January. The biggest problem with our disabled brothers is unemployment, and I think that every ministry should prioritize. Again, as I just said, since I can't ask questions from my position, now that the system's going down, I'm going to ask Mr. President for an additional minute.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0330par0624	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0329par0625	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Home Secretary a question. First of all, we really care about the work our Ministry of the Interior has done, in our country, in our nation's defense, in defense of both the Turkish Armed Forces and all the other elements of the Police Department, I want to salute from here, and I say, Lord, don't let our soldiers, our police, all the law enforcement officers, tear your eyes out. In this respect, again, Mr. Secretary, I say that the love of the country has no gender, and that I've always mentioned in police special action, and that I've promised you that our women would be special police operatives -- they're just curious about the history of the purchase. Minister, I'd like to ask you an answer on this matter. We have 3,600 additional indicators for our police, our heroic police, and I'd appreciate it if you could give us an answer on that. I wish our budgets would be a blessing to all ministries. I salute the Veterans' House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0331par0633	Thank you. Now it's time for Ankara MP Nevin Taşlıçay. Here you go, Mr. Rocky. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0332par0638	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Nationalist Action Party Group over budget proposals from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, the President of State Staff and the Occupational Authority. I salute our Veteran Assembly and all members of the great Turkish nation on screen. Governments are established by budgets, and budgets are symbolically meaning the government's manifesto of independence and sovereignty. Budgets, in fact, tell us more about the content and priorities of state policy than a metaphor of government revenue and expense pens. It is an important and valuable indicator for us that the budget of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services is the ministry with the third largest budget after the Ministry of Treasury and Finance and the Ministry of National Education. I would like to express our satisfaction in the central budget of our Ministry, which includes the family establishment, which includes, in its area, women, children, elderly and disabled, members of our society that we should be sensitively concerned about and the foundation of the sacred Turkish nation. We are aware that the burden of our ministry is heavy, that our Minister's responsibilities are vast. Violence against her continues to occupy our agenda in a way that will hurt our consciences. I think it's up to all of us to develop social awareness and contribute to the creation of social equality policies. The increase in girls' schooling, the removal of the children's work and child abuse, the increase in the months connected to the families of our martyrs, the increased in need of disabled pensions, the reevaluation of pension conditions for our veterans in working environments because of their disability, are among the issues in which we follow. I'd like to rephrase that we're going to be part of the solution, not the problem, as we always have, in the work of our Ministry's National Movement Party. Precious lawmakers, the savings and experience of public administration acquired by the Turkish state agency during the historic process are not in any of the existing world states undisputedly. Because the most important thing that separates the Turkish state agency from other world state agencies is that it has an ancient state tradition, an experienced public administration of people with justice and integrity. Mr. President of the State Garden, the motto of the State Garden, the drive, the spirit of Nizamülmülmük, and the integrity of those working together, saves the day; and the person who prioritizes his integrity leaves lasting traces in history. The word of duty is the summation of our view of public administration and understanding of governance. In this context, there must be a variety of regulations and studies in the eyes of the State Staff Presidency in order to ensure that all jobs and procedures related to public administration and personnel are referred and conducted, and public services are fast, efficient, quality and efficient. First, public workers must be paid for justice, status and employment incompatibility. Initiation, progress and ascension should not be ignored, and a staff regime with a basic principle should be implemented. In addition, the injustice of public servants' special service compensations, additional indicators and additional payments should be paid, and these additional payments should be reflected in public employees, pensions. Equal wages should not remain, but must be carried out immediately. An offer of the law on subcontracted workers, 4/B (b) members, contractual and temporary employees, should be brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey immediately. The class of auxiliary services must be removed altogether, and those in charge of the staff must be taken into the general management service class. The existence of a strong economy that will strengthen our hands in international competition has passed through the fact that work and work life have been met with the quality of work that it needs. Again, there is no doubt that this can only be achieved by an effective technique and vocational training and a consistent implementation of employment policies. In 2006, the vocational competence institution, which took its place within our bureaucracy, was designated by the Council of Europe as the Europass Centre in 2008; it also brought a innovative perspective on human resources perception in our country, with its competencies, quality workforce and employment-oriented vision. In the context of Turkey's Qualification Framework, which was adopted by the European Commission last year, it is clear that the Employment Agency has brought our country into business and working life. The standardization, education, and documentation of his own institutional identity are important, both through the institution that he authorized. However, there are steps that must be taken regarding the health and safety of workers, and our shortcomings in this matter continue to hurt and take lives. We believe that the administrative, technical, structural and legal measures necessary to address these problems should be taken and that the control and control of these measures should be tighter. We would also like to point out that we think that one of the most important issues that should be considered for the existence of a strong economy is the female issue of the Employment Agency, which is working for the procurement of qualified and qualified labor. Because we know that as in every area where the woman is not properly represented, the lack of representation in her working life will also slow progress, causing growth and growth expectations to fall short of fruitless or expected. For this reason, we believe that in vocational education presented by the Employment Agency, he should focus on issues such as mobbing, gender inequality, professional sexist language, information and awareness in these matters, as well as on increased vocational studies for women through institutions and organisations that he will authorise, and thus contribute to strengthening the woman's place and representation in working life. I'd like to conclude by thanking all public employees for their selfless work with the staff of the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I salute you all with the best wishes of our central management budget in 2019, for the good of our government and our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0333par0654	Thank you. In turn, Adana MP Ayşe Sibel Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is six minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0334par0659	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of my Millitarian Action Party Group over the budgets of the 2019-Year Centre Management Budget Law and 2017 Central Management Computing Law Bill, the General Assembly of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, the Employment Agency, the budgets of the President of State Staff. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services, as a matter of interest, deals with problems that concern every part of society in a large area, such as employees, pensioners, women, children, disabled and family, and solutions, projects. With a population increase, investments in human and social capital have become mandatory to meet the needs of our country. The strengthening of the individual in all parts of society is crucial to the potential for the development of our country. Thus, the child, young, old, has become of particular importance to be able to respond to and support the needs of every part of society. As it is known, the best response to the needs of any child, young, young, female, male, elderly, disabled individual is the family. Ziya Gökalp, a prominent figure of Turkish nationalism, Turkish culture and sociology, focused on family and homeland with the loneliness and longing of a man in exile in his letters from Limni and Malta Islands, sent by the British on January 28, 1919. In these letters, the solution to the problems of our society begins from man and from the family family, which is the smallest building blocks of society, saying that this is the foundation of this state, this nation. In his letters, the family association is the foundation of the national community. The more powerful the family is, the more powerful the nation will become. With their determination, our ministry shows how critical it really is and how heavy it is. The family, faith, culture, and civilization carry out a very important task in the transfer of our civilization to the next generation. With our economic gains, the future of our children and young ones must be ensured by maintaining family values. To this end, the Ministry's decision to strengthen our family structure, strengthen its functions, implement solution-oriented support policies in social aid and services alongside the family, improve its working life, improve its vocational education and participation in the workforce as a new vision makes us happy and supported by our side. With the detection of factors that threaten our family structure and values, while positive for the protection of family integrity and guidance of Ministry policies in our country, we think it would be more appropriate for the Turkish Family Construction Research, Turkey's Ergen Profile Research, and Turkey's Divorce Research to bring about periodic solutions in order to capture the problems of time, to present fast and in place solutions. Perhaps our ministry's most sensitive mission is to resolve the financial and spiritual problems that our disabled citizens face daily. In everyday life, they need to be actively able to survive. As a party, I would like to point out that we will contribute to all the laws we can to the problems of our disabled citizens. Precious representatives, the Association for Professional Qualification is an institution that defines and recognises national competence in technical and professional areas based on standards, and operates activities related to control, measurement and evaluation, documentation and certification. The National Qualification System is important for improving the quality of the services and work that we receive at every stage of our daily lives and making a certain standard. Increased quality in services and work and improved standards will also increase efficiency, as will adding value to the country's economy. According to March 2018 data, the State Staff Office, which is responsible for all operations of more than 3 million public personnel, including education, staff, hiring, financial and social rights and transfers, is working intensively.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0335par0669	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0334par0670	The institution, which is critical at the point of improving the quality of the service of public employees and employing our citizens in public, has problems with important issues such as the establishment of the decentralisation, transfer and promotions, the establishment of the merit system, which does not work with the employee, and the separation of those who know, and the facility of the performance system. In the fulfillment of the July 15th betrayal, it is the responsibility of the High Assembly to ensure that the integrity and performance system is healthyly established and the necessary legal arrangements are made, regardless of the impact of the abuse and deception of the existing performance and integrity system. Finally, as I finish my speech, I wish that the central management budget of 2019 was a blessing to our country, our nation, and I salute our Veteran Assembly and your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0336par0674	Now it's time for Gaziantep MP Ali Muhittin Taşdoğan. Here you go, Mr. Stoneborn. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0337par0678	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the great Turkish nation following us at the beginning of the screens, I have made a pledge on behalf of the MHP Group on the budget of the Ministry of Health. Unfortunately, not all budgetary planning, state spending -- including the money our citizens have spent -- has reached the desired level of public health. Continuous work by staff has still not provided a peaceful and secure working environment in our hospitals, expecting more work and police work at the clinics for higher patient satisfaction. The investments have provided significant improvements in basic health indicators, of course, but we are still behind developed countries. There have been significant improvements in health care, access to health care, protective health, institutional organisation, combating infectious diseases, and patient rights, but the distribution of physical infrastructure and health personnel between the city, the country and the region remains unsettled. Almost all working staffs in the presentation of health care services differ greatly in a comparative numerical analysis of Turkey and the European Union and the OECD countries. Our Ministry of Health has announced that a total of 10,000 people will be taken to the Ministry of Health by the end of this year, and has excited the graduates of health and professional education. We need to complete the appointment of all the qualified medical staff who have graduated from the public-owned schools. The victims of our young ones must also be removed. The subcontractors were recruited while performing some services within the hospital, but the personnel of information processing (HBYS) in hospitals remained out of practice. During the handover of the Ministry on July 10, 2018, the former minister said the work on HBYS employees would be announced by our new minister. Mr. Secretary, HBYS personnel are waiting for the commitments to be kept. Other than that, the subcontractors, who are not staffed with various excuses, must immediately be recruited and the subcontractor issue must be buried in history. Those of you who are called assistant-service personnel and are known as YHS personnel work at work, use computers at the desk, and work as officers in the general administrative services class. The YHS personnel are waiting to receive the title, or, according to their work, the title of control of the services. Our hospitals are still short-staffed in many technical areas. Anesthesiologists, for example, enter health and health colleges with the highest grades and receive a very high KPSS score after a difficult education, and are unfortunately unable to be assigned to the unemployed army due to a few appointments. According to the regulation, we have graduates in many technical areas, such as perfusion technicians, electronorophysiology technicians, radiology technicians and many other majors still can't find work in hospitals. The current staff, however, serves with short-term certification training, such as a week. However, in these majors, there is a well-trained medical workforce that has been trained for two or four years of technical higher education. And they're out of work, and they're waiting here under more difficult circumstances than we can explain. From another window, as a sociological situation, you have to remember that in my beautiful hometown of Gaziantep, as in every province of Anatolia, children used to marry their children, fathers and mothers would have their primary preferences as midwifes or nurses. Our boys and girls now graduates of health and professional high school who have turned into an unemployed army can't even plan their lives and build a home, as they are unemployed. Well, can't we consider raising the satisfaction of the health workers as much as we think of the satisfaction of the patients? Shouldn't those who work in stressful, difficult conditions where disease can be treated at any time, in difficult conditions, and in disease-threatening environments where they're at risk of retirement, regulate their rights to self? Why do we avoid the problems of health workers when we are sick, when we think of ourselves and go jogging? Why do we ignore the amount of return capital that can be put into salary, that it can be reflected in pensions, that additional indicators can be improved? When we lose money, we appreciate the value of money, the value of the person who dies when we lose it, and when we lose our health, we appreciate our health, but why don't we appreciate the care of the medical staff? For this, it is not enough to condemn violence in health, but we must take measures we all know. What about physical therapists, paramedics, dieticians, psychiatrists, child developers, environmental health technicians, senior care technicians, home care technicians, ATTs and so on? Some of them still don't have a clear mandate, and their work in the private sector is very limited. What health workers expect from our Parliament is that the staff be employed. There are many things we need to do for a sustainable health policy, not just for staff and staff status. The victims of pharmacists by the Turkish Institute for Medicine and Medical Devices are always averted. The increased drug consumption and unconscious use of antibiotics should also be noted in recent years. We carefully follow and support our ministry's work on health tourism. I'd also like to emphasize that we believe that health tourism will open a new door in our country, in the health sector. Congressmans, patient satisfaction was the most boasted issue, but it reached about 75 percent and stopped. One of the very, very important reasons is that the quality falls as quantity increases. Another reason is that even though health insurance workers pay premiums for health insurance, because of various differences, a new insurance requirement, such as insurance, the concept of complementary health insurance continues to become increasingly common. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0338par0695	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0337par0697	I'm gonna have to say it again. For nine years, the Health Applied Service, which is known as the price of health care services, has not been improved for nine years. So nine years ago, the appendectomy was $432, that's what the hospital paid, and that's $432 today. The Inguinal herni, the hernia operation, was $1,231, including the VAT, dropped 14 per cent five months ago with the arrangement, at $1.080. Hospitals have to take that difference from patients, citizens, due to rising costs for nine years, so differences are increasing. Although a few pens have been improved by the arrangement five months ago, X-rays, such as labs, have also been reduced by around 5%. As I finish my words, I wish you all a good day and a good day for the great Turkish nation of the Ministry of Health in 2019. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0338par0700	The last word on behalf of the National Movement Party Group belongs to İstanbul MP Hayati Arkaz. Here you go, Mr. Arkad. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is seven minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0704	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Party of Movement on the budget of the Ministry of Health in the 2019 Central Management Budget Act talks. So I salute the General Assembly and the great Turkish nation. I'm a medical doctor. I've been working as a hospital founder and administrator for 30 years on a private venture. No doubt the medical world is the fastest-growing, fast-renewing science in technology. Medical services in Turkey over the past 20 years have been performed by world standards. So it's better than Europe, it's better than America. I say this as a living human being, and I know it. Thank you. In this setting, private hospitals, research hospitals, medical schools - we live in a period of envy by Europe. I'd like to thank everyone who's worked so hard here. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Twenty years ago, in cardiovascular surgery, there was no surgery in Turkey, and those who had the means were going abroad, and those who didn't were leaving their fate to God, so God is responsible for their fate. Now we are receiving patients from both Europe, Africa, and all over Asia, especially in the developed countries of Europe. I'm telling you this from the bottom of my heart. We have a patient explosion from abroad, in line. I'll tell you about it now. And that's what makes us proud. Thank you, sir. In general surgery in particular, Da Vinci has started robotic surgery, which means closed surgeries. Whatever the latest technology in the world is, we're doing all the operations in general surgery, the general west. We're way ahead of delivery, IVF. In particular, four-dimensional ultrasound is diagnosed with the brain anomaly of a two-and-a-half-month-old child in the womb. At 4.5 months of age, other anomalies and children's genders are apparent. Hopefully there'll be better ones in the future.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0340par0709	How much are you getting?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0710	Ortho is doing closed meniscus surgeries again. In urology, all cancer surgeries are performed with robotic surgery. I'm betting -- I want to make this clear in the General Assembly -- that we're the best in Europe, believe lasers in eye surgery. (MHP and AK PARTY) Look, I have to tell the truth here -- I'm a physician. I'll tell you if there's any loose ends.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0341par0711	Our Minister will complete them. We do.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0712	I hope so. I trust the Minister, he's my friend, he's my friend, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0342par0714	I can see that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0715	KBB surgeries are like that again, ear, nose, throat... Neurosurgery has surgeries in Turkey today, where brain tissue is untouched. So whatever technology is being used in the United States is being used in Turkey. For example, brain surgery is performed without being touched by a surgery called neuronavigation. In cardiovascular surgery -- I just told you -- patients were left to their fate 20 years ago. And right now, in heart surgery, I'm telling you, we have very well-grown physicians. There are good hospitals. We're very good at stents in heart surgery. And finally, hybrid surgery. This hybrid surgery is a closed heart surgery in heart surgery. Ten years ago, 15 years ago, if you had told me that I could do such a thing, I would have said it was a miracle. It's being done right now. We do bypass surgeries in the beating heart, which is called the beating heart, without stopping the heart. We used to remove bypass surgery, stop the heart, then do it. They're doing bypass surgeries now, heart-to-heart. So it really is a great service to mankind. Let's hear it for the good, and let's say what's missing. [[A round of applause from MHP and AK PARTY]] Now, whoever is in power here... I am a Turkish nationalist, speaking on behalf of the National Movement Party. You're going to be a nationalist and you're not going to support the good stuff, that's not gonna happen. (Applause from MHP and AK PARTY) That's our nationalism. Yes, there may be 50 of us, but may Allah continue the National Movement Party in this country forever. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Especially in plastic surgery, they don't use silicone like they used to. They're doing more original surgeries and tissue from stem cells. Turkish plastic surgery is a respectable place in the world today. It's been made with the most advanced equipment in the most advanced countries in the last decade. For example, facial transplants are performed in plastic surgery, which is highly ambitious in Turkey. In transplants, especially kidneys, lungs, liver, heart transplants, we're in a really high position. Other than that, extremity, arm-and-leg transplants are very successful. When you're not having a heart transplant -- it's very difficult -- we use an artificial heart, which is like a year old. The patient is given a time period at which time he is transferred if the heart is found. [[Whistling]] If we could just stop humming a little bit, fellas. Guys, I'm sorry. I got some bad news two hours ago. I live in Istanbul, I am an Istanbul MP, but my uncle's son passed away two hours ago in Sivas.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0343par0730	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0731	Mr. President said you can leave immediately. I said, "No, I'll do my speech and I'll leave." I'm on my way.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0344par0732	God rest his soul, I'm sorry for your loss.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0339par0733	The reason is that he smokes two packs of cigarettes a day, and the young 50-year-old has passed away with no complaints.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0345par0734	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0346par0735	God rest his soul.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0347par0736	So you're saying don't smoke.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0737	I mean, let's not get out of line here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0349par0738	Sivas don't drink, Sivas don't drink.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0739	I hope so, sir. Now, there's trouble with this transplant in Turkey. No organs, no organ donation, you know. We are far behind in Europe.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0350par0742	Just give me five more minutes, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0351par0743	Let's do it, Mr. Arkad.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0744	I'm completing it. However, here we have our religious leaders, the Dianetite, the muflüs, the media, the government, our municipalities, even all of us. Mr. President, did you give me a minute? I'd like to talk about health tourism in a few words, if you'll excuse me. This is health. Let's talk, Mr. President. We don't argue, we don't argue.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0352par0747	Go ahead, Mr. Arkad, you have 30 seconds left.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0748	Okay. We're in a very serious place in health tourism, and I just told you. Hopefully, he'll be better off in the future. I want to talk about 30 seconds: hospitals are good, doctors are good, we have problems. Here's the problem: We take 85 percent of the medical equipment and the waste we use in health care from the outside. It makes us sad. Despite all the favors...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0353par0750	The ads are over.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0751	It's not advertising, sir. It's the truth. You do it, I'll say it for you 10 times.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0353par0752	No, here, now come to the truth.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0753	Yes, 85 percent of medical equipment is taken from the outside.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0354par0755	I'll add one more minute so they don't say it, Mr. Arkaz. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0758	Thank you, Mr. President, thank you. Now, ASELSAN is working on MRI. I'm looking forward to it. Hopefully, we'll be happy to have our own MRI. Mr. Ali sits across from me. He's a member of the Republican People's Party. He's a citizen. I'm sure he shares these matters because we're in the same business.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0355par0760	No, I don't share that. He speaks for himself, I speak for myself.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0348par0761	Mr. Minister, especially with the assistant staff, dieticians, psychologists, physical therapists, my friend told me, I can't repeat - unemployment is too much. I'd like to draw his attention to you now. As I end my words, Mr. Süleyman Soylu Bey, our Home Secretary, I congratulate them as a Turkish nationalist for the work he's done for our country, for our state, and you're not alone. Thank you, sir, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0356par0765	Thank you, Mr. Arkaz. Thus, the talks on behalf of the National Movement Party Group are completed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0357par0767	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0356par0768	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0357par0771	Mr. President, without further ado, I'd like to make three things brief. One of them was on the agenda here in the morning, about the images of the Konya municipality's vehicles in Rakka. I've got a statement from the city of lconia. They claim that the vehicles were sold from public to private, and later went to Rakka. We're based on the claim, the statement, but I think it's up to the city of Konya to explain why the machines were in control of Rakka ISIS at that time. Again, there are clear indications in the budget talks of how high the trade figures are in Syria's north, while here, under ISIS control. There's a statement to Nusra to ask him for the rescue of Idlib, and there's news from the Anadolu Agency that the holiday is very good in Rakka. This is all about public institutions. The second point I want to make is about a tension in Istanbul today. Mr. President, there's been a tension between the Galatasaray fans and the Tripolispor fans, and a shopping mall is allegedly attacked by Tripolispor fans. The statements shared on social media show how widespread hate crime, hate speech, especially social media -- not so few followers, but tens of thousands of known addresses -- are expressed in the expression of Greek seeds from Trabzon. Look, here's where we're supposed to look for racism, hate speech in this country, and how much we're tracking it, how much we're asking the people responsible, and I think we should care about it in an environment where a lot of people are being detained and arrested because of social media.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0358par0776	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0357par0777	And finally, Mr. President, because of its importance, I'd like to bring to everyone's attention what I said yesterday based on what was said here about drugs. Drug victims' identities, party belonging means nothing; we all have children who are these victims, but drug trafficking and market control are something else. Look, I don't want to give you detailed names again, so I'd like to make reminders that refer to different political property at different times. When you look at the statements of Deputy Chief of Police Mustafa Yiğit. - I believe he also represented Turkey in INTERPOL -- there is very concrete information on what political parties involved MPs in the drug trade. Şevket Bühnici's interview with Radikal daily on June 12, 2000: "No drug trafficking without white Toros can be done. " Shevket Bkent Jahnici, they say: "You wear down the police.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0358par0780	Our last extension, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0357par0781	Mr. President, I'm tidying up. He says there's no clean society without clean police. I don't wear out the police, but I draw attention to that fact. Without this network of relationships and sharing, it wouldn't be so common. And finally, Mr. President, there's a baron on the subject, and I'll never mention his name, but he was caught with 22 tons of marijuana -- the largest numbers in Turkey -- a name, which is now being honored by the representatives of many different political parties as a benefactor of schools of what is described in the Balkans. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0359par0785	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0360par0786	Mr. Mush, do you have a request?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0359par0787	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0360par0788	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0359par0790	Mr. President, this is a vehicle that has nothing to do with our municipality, which has been heated and heated and brought up in the matter of Iconium. But it's being brought up again, even though we explained it when it came to the agenda before taking a break. Ask DEASH, who struck them with an iron fist? The state of the Republic of Turkey is the state of Turkey. So it's really a great skill to get up with the state of the Republic of Turkey and try to build a defect through a vehicle that has nothing to do with the municipality. Another is about this drug thing. Last time, you know, he was caught in a very large amount. Now, Mr. President, I'm going to tell you a few things. Of course, drugs are one of the PKK's largest revenue markers. The police reportedly controlled about 1.5 billion dollars in revenues in the 2018 Drug Report. There was an operation here last year in lice, with 6,000 security personnel involved. In that operation, they're being planted in the fields, in these parts of the lice, under the control of this terrorist organization. Security units are interfering here, dismantling these, destroying the source. Look, the terrorists who were assigned to watch over them are trapped, the law enforcement forces are interfering, and -- they're reflected in the statements -- burn down the forest. He says, they're setting the forest on fire with the people he found there. And from this council bench, the operation is being made to the villagers, not there. They've been spoken to, they've all been recorded in the House. They're the ones who got stuck in the woods trying to escape that fire, that mayhem, members of a terrorist organization, members of a terrorist organization, they're the ones who set the fire.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0360par0793	Here you go, one minute.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0359par0794	When we look back today, the picture is much better, but Diyarbakır MPs from the parliamentary bench at the time -- there are also the recordings -- Diyarbakır MPs who criticised the issue are being intervened against the villagers. Now, friends, look, it poisons everyone, it poisons our entire youth. When a will is put against it, when it is destroyed in its source, everyone will put their conscience before it and support it, but he will stand behind it without it. Therefore, I consider this reminder to myself as a debt to make it to the General Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0798	Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0362par0800	When Mr. Mush entered the system, I entered in case I didn't, but...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0801	You can't take it, yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0362par0802	Now that I'm in, let me ask Mr. Mush, if I may.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0803	But I'm gonna go. I'm gonna take a break.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0362par0804	Taking a break?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0805	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0362par0806	Let me ask you a quick question.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0807	Not too long.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0362par0808	I'm curious about one thing: the AK PARTY councilman of the heavens said on September 23, 2014, "It's a good thing God didn't reduce the bullet." Did you expel this person from the party? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit03spe0361par0810	Dear friends, I'm taking a thirty-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0361par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 34th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of the Central Management Budget Law Proposal of 2019, and of the 2017 Central Management Accounting Bill. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 The commission is in place. Let's begin the talks on behalf of the good party. The first speech is from Mersin MP Behic Çelik. Here you go, Mr. Steel. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0363par0064	Mr. President, I have received a pledge on behalf of the well-placed PARTI Group on the proposed proposal and bill. I salute the Honorable General Assembly and our fellow citizens who follow us. The topic of my speech will be about the Ministry of Interior, the Police General Directorate and the President of the Disaster and Emergency Management. Dear MPs, the Ministry of the Interior is one of the most radical, stable, functional four ministries in our administration history. It is an important ministry that has a great contribution to stability, which has always provided the interior of the country, although it has been named after the country. At the beginning of my word, the country is a virtue. I salute and salute the fire department and the police, the police, the Coast Guard, our guards, and those given authority, the fire department and the police, who have carried out every order with great precision and care, and who are determined to protect our country at all times and everywhere. The interior ministry, which has existed for a hundred and eighty-three years, has martyred thousands of its staff for the country, the nation, the flag and the holy, as it stands in opposition to internal and external evil centers, terrorism, attacks. Four days ago, we witnessed the testimony of our police officer Turhan Kara. Altug Director and Turhan police will never be our last martyr. I hereby bless the survivors of our community with the blessings of those who return to eternal life while wishing health and pleasure to those who are still alive. Dear lawmakers, when it comes to the Ministry of Interior, it often comes to the mind of the police and the gendarmes. But let's not forget that the Ministry has administrative structures, which are the cornerstone of the general functioning of the state. It is a massive organization consisting of the Local Administration, Population and Citizenship, Property Investigation Board, Police, gendarmes, AFAD, Migration Administration, personnel, Civil Society Relations, presidential and academies. The ministry also has a very powerful rural organization other than its central body. Among other things, the administration of the government, representing the state and government, is an integral part of the Interior Ministry. Therefore, it is not difficult for the Interior Ministry to establish a network of relations in the framework of governance, executive, control throughout Turkey through the property authorities, in the framework of judicial and military issues. Dear MPs, the Ministry of Interior is obliged to maintain public order. In 16 years of power, the EC PARTY governments have also committed flaws that will come at a very high cost. In particular, between 2004 and 14, the extent of the damage done to the Turkish nation and the country is very frightening in the global power centers of the EC PARTY, and co-operation with it. Dear friends, local governments had a routine in Turkey. Since 1864 it has been classified as municipalities, municipalities, and village administrations. The municipality is designated as a private administration. The municipality is often defined as the local municipality. Villages are considered a small local government unit under Village Law 442. The AK PARTY, unfortunately, has upset this system. Special administrations have been lifted in 30 provinces. In these 30 counties, nearly 20,000 villages have been transformed into neighborhoods, which have been billed for major damage and costs to the countryside. On the other hand, the number of municipalities has been reduced to 1,397. The cost of this mess will be understood in the future, and there will be great costs. I would especially like to point out that we should be careful of the damage that globalization and localization will do to our administrative structure. The AK PARTY carried water on this plane for at least 11 years to the mill of certain focals. It took a few years for him to recover. During the unfortunate period when the country's administration was completely mankurted, opening policy, smart men, strategic depth, Oslo, Kandil, Imralı, Dolmabahçe agreement, democraticisation package, Habur scandal, ditch rebellion, the operation to discredit Turkish Armed Forces, as well as the BOP co-chair -- was the least likely -- noncommittal acts. Despite the fact that it was declared an anti-terror organization in 2004 by the MGK decision, the organisation was held as if it had never existed, and even the state was run together. In 2010, the Constitutional Amendment was also handed over to the Supreme Court under the so-called "judgment reform." On the other hand, the Interior Minister of the period admitted that 74 police chiefs of 81 districts were members. At that time, more than 30 governors of the province were found to have been members of the province, and there was a great deal of destruction in the business of managing the property. A government that runs away from careers and merits can't survive. This destruction took place until the traitors came to the door. Dear lawmakers, that's where our admin administrator, the values of the profession, the indicators of our geopolitical facts, is where we come out. The Home Office is almost like a laboratory. We expect conscious services for the state and the nation's stay from Mr. Home Secretary, his assistants, other executives and commanders. Never let them become weary, weary, and weary. As for the so-called presidential government system, it accelerated the corrosion of institutions because it is not a target for autocratic and oligarchic governance. The institutions quickly wear down, the quality of nationality in society gradually diminishes, the congregation, the tribe, the oba, the lower social layer, and the larger cities get ghettoized. A tunnel where the strong one is right, where justice is about to run out. This trend completely corrodes values, the more difficult it becomes to maintain certain order, the more democratic it becomes, the more pressure and the more violent it becomes. Religious abuse, false teachers, revoking anti-Ataturk. There are a lot of protagonists who are servants of foreign intelligence organizations. At a time like this, the Ministry of the Interior is the ministry that will have the most headaches. However, I do know that the Ministry's corporate personality still has a consciousness in its memory. Dear MPs, the General Directorate of Mahalli Administration has been suspended by the latest organisation. Equal municipalities are established within the Ministry of Urbanism. This is against Article 127 of the Constitution, and the Ministry of Interior must resurrect the General Manager of Mahalli Administrations. They're being deposed and replaced by the mayor, the vice president, the council members of the municipalities, which are considered at fault with terrorism. It was brought in with Article 38 of KHK, number 674. It's an interesting practice. In Law 1580, this was the same as the chieftainship of Mansup. We're back to square one. We now call the AK PARTY "Turkish Truths," "Don't turn the country into a puzzle board." Law 6360 has also been formed in the cities of 30 major cities, as well as the Yikobs - Co-ordinating Units of Investigation Watch. This can never be the equivalent of a private administration. That's why I'm saying that special administrations in 30 provinces must be re-established. Local governments are very complicated, and there must be a solution. Villages must be rehabilitated. Re-established municipalities must be established in towns that have reached more than 5,000 inhabitants. A law on frameworks should be passed that will regulate the relationship between all local governments. The chiefs must be re-acquainted. Dear lawmakers, the license control hygiene of drinking places must be established on solid grounds. The raises on alcoholic beverages have blown up the manufacture and sale of moonshine. That's why we know that dozens of people died of methyl alcohol. The lack of control threatens public health and general morality. It is wise to reconsider the rights of property managers. It is especially important that the governors and governors remain behind on the new salary scale, to maintain their status. The governor's title must not be taken back from the governors. Dear lawmakers, the Police General Directorate, which has reached 270,000 in total, is a real patriot and martyrs' furnace. We've always had the support of this exceptional institution, which I'm proud to have been friends with in the past. Public service is what citizens are most looking for. It must be more effective in fighting shameful crimes, clearing the streets of criminal machines. The resurrection of the guard organization has been successful. Important units, such as intelligence, SKH, KOM, TEM, must be reinforced with qualified personnel. The most important work our police department needs is discipline. It's not like we have a Police Department without discipline. For this reason, it will also contribute to the increased discipline and morale of ordered supervisors who often inspect the organization's structure after its betrayal. The agency's biggest enemy was laka. In the 52,395 security guard, it is useful to increase the number, which will give the state strength and power. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that our police department has legal, administrative, humanitarian and social problems. I'd like to make a point of that. Statistically, one police officer commits suicide every thirteen days, and many police commit suicide after shooting their relatives. Just the other day, a police commissioner committed suicide, God rest his soul. The murder of Rize Police Commissioner Altug Verdi must also be analysed well. That means we have to find a solution. Working hours should be organized in human dimensions, not to become a chore. In this regard, the decision-making content of the Public Control Agency, 2013/171, must be implemented. The Constitutional Court on the union rights of the police has a 2014 verdict. A counter-vote should be valued here, evaluated. I'm not going to say 3,600 additional indicators, we have to do this. The match must be paid for in and out of meetings such as concerts, while all those in or out must be taken full advantage of. Applications such as a record pardon and a second song application, which has been corrupted by ▪, must be rearranged. Another problem is that peace, security, and security are increasingly corrupt in the cities. In fact, international quality of life and security statistics show our country behind. One of the most important indicators is the murder of women. We've learned from statistics that 15,000 women have been murdered in the last 15 years. The Syrians and other irregular immigrant elements are potentially responsible for our country's lack of security, and the Syrians must be sent to their country in some way. AS A GOOD PARTY, we specifically want to state that we will vote positively for the agency's budget. As for AFAD, AFAD was established by Law 5902, but it does not see such services, despite the provisions of Civil Defence Law 7126. So I'm saying that our Home Office should draft a new civil defense law and present it to the High Council. The Ministry of Interior, meanwhile, also highlights many projects: Red whistles, INDES, GAMER, ILYAS; Open Door, MUHATAP, PERDIS, KADES, NUMA. We also view congratulation and appreciation of well - done work as a debt of conscience. However, management culture should not be destroyed, it must be prevented from multiculturalism or culturelessness; attacks on the nation's state, unitary state structure must be stopped, local governance complexes must be stopped, political autonomy forced. Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, Ataturk, say: "We will follow our own plan, we will subject the enemies of the Turkish nation to our plan."
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0364par0097	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0363par0099	With such feelings, I wish that the financial year budget of 2019 would be a blessing to the Ministry of Interior, the Police General Directorate, the AFAD (AFAD) and our Turkey. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0364par0102	Thank you. Now it's time for Istanbul MP Umit Özdağ. Here you are, Mr. Özdağ. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0107	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the General Staff of the Gendarme Command, are leading Turkey's most important and effective forces against PKK terrorism. In 1984, in fact, a weak force, the Carabinieri, gained great experience and activity in the fight against terrorism over the years. In other words, the Carabinieri became a perfect low-density army or hybrid army. After the coup on July 15, a large portion of the refugees who had infiltrated the gendarmes were purged. A step has been taken to strengthen the ability of the gendarme to become a hybrid army of war. The Carabinieri's drone powers grew and were effectively used. We see significant developments in the number of armored vehicles of the gendarmes. Gendarmes have increased their number of commando battalions, all of whom are veterans, up to 82. We also see an effective struggle with the PKK in the country. These are, in fact, positive and admirable developments on behalf of the gendarme and on behalf of the Interior Ministry, but not to be forgotten, the two major terror plagues in Turkey, the PKK, are largely retreated to Syria to return, and the PKK is scattered around the world to return. Selefi jihadist terrorist organizations continue to quickly knit their cocoons within Turkey. Dear lawmakers, it is clear that further threats to our country from Turkey's hybrid civil war, which is a hybrid war in the coming years, will be increased except for the one prepared to return. Therefore, the General Command of the Gendarme must continue to strengthen, but this strengthening must be built on the right identity. The General Command of the Gendarme was taken from the Turkish Armed Forces after July 15th. First, the General Staff, which suffered severe damage to the infiltration, lost full military status after July 15th, and began to experience identity problems. In Article 5 of Law 2803, the gendarme was converted from military status law enforcement to armed general law enforcement. However, whatever you name the Gendarme, the Carabinieri are an army and a part of the Turkish Army. Dear lawmakers, you're taking advantage of the armed general forces of the General Staff of the Gendarmes in cross-border operations. In cross-border operations, the Carabinieri are doing very successful operations, very effective operations, and still a lot of gendarmes continue to operate in northern Syria. In Operation Afrin, we also see that the Carabinieri gave the most martyrs. They continue to serve 60,000 Mehmetçik national services under the General Command of the Gendarmes. And this will be removed in July, but this has to go on, so that the gendarme can conduct his work in a healthy manner. Dear MPs, it is the duty of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to make arrangements in favour of our country. What needs to be done here is to strengthen the position of the military-state law enforcement force in the General Command Act, which is the actual situation, which is necessary. Dear lawmakers, it was a mistake to hand over Turkish state institutions to the UK. Sultan Mehmet the Conqueror massacred all members of a cult that had become too powerful and involved in politics in Istanbul. The state doesn't accept partners, and when it does, it's a parallel state. And there's only one time in 5,000 years of Turkish history when the parallel state has emerged, and that's when you run Turkey, there's no other period. Come on, give me a parallel state from history. No. Today, another sect is being organized in the General Command of the Gendarmes. In the army, there's no cult ties, there's no community ties, there's only one connection in the army, and that's the bond of gun friendship. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Another problem with the General Command of the Gendarme is the politicalisation of the Carabinieri. If officers start looking for mayors and deputies for transfers and promotions, it is not possible to entrust the country's security or the existence of the Turkish nation to such an officer's staff. Dear lawmakers, another regulation concerning the gendarme is to give the gendarme the state-wide intelligence authority. The police have this authority today, and the National Intelligence Agency does, and it should, but the gendarmes can only do so within their jurisdiction, and a large portion of Turkey's population is beyond the jurisdiction of the gendarmes. This prevents the police from continuing their pursuit in the countryside, especially in technical pursuit. In addition to fighting terrorism, the gendarme's capacity will be needed more during the coming period, preventing this from being used. Deliberate lawmakers are continuing and must continue operations on the construction of the ▪ within the TSK and the Gendarme. We know that part of these operations are pay phone operations, but we also see that these pay phone operations are beginning to make serious mistakes. For example, in 2010, a captain was called once from a pay phone, suspended; don't do this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0366par0118	Not once, not once.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0119	That's not true. Mr. General Manager...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0366par0120	Not once, they gave it to you wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0121	No, it's true.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0366par0122	There's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0123	Look, I don't talk about things like this without doing research, you know that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0366par0124	No, Hajji, it's wrong.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0125	He was called once and deposed. Don't let it bring out a new Ergenekon. Look, this job is getting really hot, and this job is getting really hot, and you're going to see that someone is bringing up the general pardon for this chirping. They're doing it on purpose.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0366par0126	Teacher, they gave you false information. They gave you false information.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0365par0127	Dear lawmakers, the General Command of the Gendarmes is a highly trained anti-terrorism army with a high level of professionalism. What needs to be done is to strengthen the general command of the gendarmes in the fight against terrorism by putting aside their fantasies of civilization and preventing the formation of new sects. This will also allow us to take the Turkish Armed Forces out of the fight against terrorism and turn the gendarme into the only force fighting terrorism within the border and across the border. Turkey really needs an army like this in the coming process, and we, as the GOOD PARTY, wish that such a military force would continue by developing. We also accept the budget for the gendarmes as the GOOD PARTY. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0367par0130	Thank you. Now it's time for Isparta MP Aylin Gutsy. Here you go, Mr. Brave. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0135	You'll give me the remaining two minutes, won't you, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0367par0136	Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0137	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. I'm here to talk to you about the family, the Department of Labor and Social Services budget. In my previous speech, I mentioned that the entire government that had been in office since the establishment of the Republic of Turkey had given it to our country, and because I was talking about the state waterworks budget, I naturally mentioned our 9th President, Süleyman Demirel, and his works. He also counted the Bolu Tunnel, even under Marmaray. I told him.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0369par0140	Oh, my God!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0141	The pool media resented it and reported about me as a liar or something. They didn't release the documents I sent, so we wanted to answer them here with documents. The construction of the Bolu Tunnel took place in the 49th government, where Demirel was Prime Minister. December 27, 1992, as you can see, Suleiman Demirel and Deputy Prime Minister Erdal Inönu are together at the groundbreaking ceremony. And back here is the project...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0369par0143	Let me see, that's the foundation of what?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0370par0144	Mr. Special, please... there are many orators.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0145	I'll send it to you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0369par0146	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0370par0147	Okay, I promise you later.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0148	Again, Prime Minister Demirel goes to Japan on December 1st, 1992, presents a $10 billion package with projects and talks in the Istanbul tube parade, followed by the February 15, 2000, with an agreement with the Japanese for Marmaray -- present, yes, there -- and there's President Demirel and Prime Minister Bjelt Ecevit; there's a coalition government. There are other documents here. So, for those of you who are curious, especially for those who watch it on TV, all the documents in my social media accounts have been published in detail. Congressmans, of course, we've learned a lot from him, but most of all, we've learned that in this nation's stand, on the legislature, we need to go public with documents. You know what they did when they did that? At the same time, they did the state with their nation and with each other, in accordance with the requirements of constitutional law states. All those who have laid stones on stone since the founding of the great Ataturk. May God bless them all. I wish all those who are not alive to have a healthy long life. Now, if you don't like us talking about what's been done, let's talk about what's been sold a little bit today. You've been privatizing $62.5 billion since you arrived. One by one, one by one, the most prestigious organizations ever to witness the founding of the Republic. We're not opposed to privatisation, but the reasonable and fundamental of everything is important, how it's done. In 15 years, the 10 most valuable ports available to the public, 81 power plants, 40 businesses, 3,483 non-movable, 3 ships, 36 mining sites sold to the natives and foreigners. FEMALE companies, such as TUPRAS and PETKIM, have been sold for $6.2 billion, both profitable and highly strategic for the country. Over the last three years, more than 20,000,000 dams have been sold for about $1.9 billion. Now, we're looking at the New Economic Programme, and according to the targets, you plan to sell the last public goods available in the next four years and get $48 billion in privatisation revenues. This includes hydropower plants -- I can't count -- bridges -- Bosporus, Fatih Sultan Mehmet bridges; Antwerp, Şanlıurfa, Ankara environmental roads; valuable land buildings, property buildings privatised by 51 per cent of Turkish Maritime Enterprises; Sumer Holdings' factories, businesses, including the cigarette factory in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus; sugar factories; now 12 are coming in. I mean, it's not like we actually did anything wrong if we called it an inheritance program. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Now, it's about the budget for the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. I've had a lot of talk on this stand about women's poverty and women's violence. I don't want to turn you guys into the same numbers again. We care more than anything, and we all know that women's unemployment rates are much higher than men today. The budget is the most important thing, of course, for the executive body. Now, within the central management budget of 2017, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy had 4 per cent of its share. In 2018, the rate went down to 3.5 percent. I'd like to express my regrets from here. I think the administration should have a budget so there's more work to be done. Of all the measures taken, I think it's the subject of education. Now, our children's schooling rate is dwindling according to TİK data. Our children who work without social security are victims of job killings, and nearly 2 million children are deprived of education, and 1 million of them are working, I'm afraid. In the last decade, child abuse cases have increased by 700 per cent, and more than 400,000 girls under the age of 18 have been married. Now, I'd like to ask if there's any resources in the family, Department of Labor and Social Services budget to prevent violence against women, child abuse? And in the ministry's budget, we see that the money for the unit on the woman is a thousand to one percent. Now, about that, of course, I'd like to emphasize that there should be more. Again, I'd like to talk to you about the Office of the disabled and the Senior Services. In the newly announced Second 100 Daily Plan, the first article of the Ministry of Family Affairs envisioned the declaration of the Year of 2019. I'm very supportive. Now, one of the ministries that has been merged into the presidential administration system is the Ministry of Family, Work and Social Services to me. One of our ministry's headquarters was called the "Early and Old Service." Now, our Minister is new, and he's probably not responsible, but I don't know what reason is there to try to serve both by putting the elderly and the disabled in the same category. The problems and solution proposals of these two divisions are not shared, but why were they considered together in the same office? Now this reminds me: Once upon a time in İzmir, the school of the blind and the deaf was opened. They said: "He sees deaf people, he hears blind people; let them support one another. " But the foot of the goose didn't work that way, it broke down in the 1950s, and he's been linked to the Ministry of National Education, and he's been working as separate schools ever since. Now, according to the handicapped research, the total population in Turkey is 12 per cent of the disabled, the number of the disabled is 10 million, and given that our population is getting older, I believe it is correct for the two parties to organise separately. Officers: Officers' monthlys, finally, 3.5 percent increase in July. Depending on increased inflation rates, officials and pensioners will receive 7.17 per cent. The 4th Mass Convention, which regulates the salaries of officers and pensioners, envisioned an increase of 4% for January 2019, by 5 per cent for July. But the inflation forecast for 2019 is 15.9%. What does that mean? This means that this collective contract has collapsed, needs to be renovated, needs to be revised. I think it's possible that the losses of the year 2018 will be paid by a bonus to the officers before New Year's Eve. It's not in the budget offer, but I'd like to say that we should consider it. Another issue is the assistance staff, which we now know as a Christian, whose number is around 110,000. Now, their work has been handed over to subcontractors with an NGO and the staff here are being used in other jobs according to their educational situation. They've already renewed their training over time. Now, I'm talking about a very serious number of our citizens, who have a number of 110,000, and I think it's appropriate that they actually, in terms of education, be assigned to the staff of officers in our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services. Dear lawmakers, we may not have made this famous four-lane road to the moon, but we've been wasted on the moon, and we're in space in natural gas, gas, and basic consumer goods, thank God. Our unemployment rates increase regularly every month, such as inflation. According to official figures, there are 3 million 715 thousand unemployed, which is estimated to be 10 million. Now, from 2002 to 2018, 6 million 182,363 people were paid 20 billion 657 million 493,000 liras. The money collected for unemployment allowance was lent to banks at low interest to reduce public banks' lack of capital. What are you going to do tomorrow when the money at the unemployment fund runs out, so the taps are cut? I swear to God, I'm thinking about it. God help me. We all know that you're using public resources to reduce interest, that only public banks are bidding on a show-of-the-art money debt. Our population is 55 million and 28 million executive files over the age of 18. That means one out of two is for execution. See, dear friends, for a pound of meat, the worker in Germany has to work for thirty-four minutes, and the worker in Turkey has to work five hours. So, in conclusion, what's the point? Turkey had 253,640 brain drains in 2017, so people are running from here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Two minutes...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0371par0163	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0368par0164	Especially young people running away from our country because they're desperate for the future. It's not just unemployment and money, guys. It's democracy, it's freedom, it's human rights and it's the rule of law. And another thing: according to Health Ministry data, about 9 million people in our country are applying to a doctor for mental illness, so in nine years we've broken the record with a 160 percent increase in antidepressants. The reasons for this application have been noted: poverty, unemployment, migration, traumas, social conflicts, and future anxiety. Now, saying that 3,069 people committed suicide last year, I really think it's time for us to listen to the voice of our society, the sound of this crackling sound, all of us to come up with a solution here. And dear friends, the budget of 2019 extends its foot according to its quilt. Against the word, it's not an investment, it's a spending budget. I hope not, but as long as this budget is going on and this waste is going on, let alone Turkish resources, we're going to run out of resources to borrow. With these budgets, let alone pave the way for new investments to produce, with these interest policies, the country, unfortunately, has moved away from its existing production capacity, becoming the economy that produces the country, not the economy that produces its money and finance policies. What will happen tomorrow? Industrialization cannot take place in a country under which anxiety prevails, whereas our drug is production and industrialization. Now, stability eliminates significant and stability, political stability, dissolution of forces. So first of all, it's the institution of the state of law. Governments are temporary, dear friends of the Republic of Turkey, and our state is open and our nation's good luck, and the Great God hopes to make better budgets together, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0372par0171	Thank you. Now it's time for Adana MP Ismail Konçuk. Here you go, Mr. Concubine. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0373par0176	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute your grand delegation. I have made a pledge on behalf of the good PARDI of the State Staff and the Office of Occupational Qualification. Deputies of the Member States are scheduled to eliminate State Chief of Staff in one year, under the Code of Law 703. The Minister is here. This is an extremely wrong decision. This practice, which means the removal of this institution, instead of continuing with this experience within the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, is wrong. Because the State Chief of Staff really has a lot of experience with this, and it's an institution that co-ordinates personnel rights on certain issues among institutions. Thus, maintaining this would be an extremely important condition for the healthy functioning of the state's system. Dear lawmakers, working life has been almost allocated during your rule, so the new kinds of jobs you've implemented in working life since 2002 have destroyed the public system, making public employees really unhappy. Look, 4/B, municipal employees who work under Article 5393, under Article 49, under the administrative service contract, are the forms of work invented during your time, unfortunately, by the proxy, the substitute nurse, the proxy, the imam. Actually, we asked Mr. Secretary how he felt about these matters, but there's still no answer. Mr. Secretary, hopefully, we'll warn the department that's late in giving these answers, and we'll have to at least know what the Ministry of Labor thinks about it, what it's planning, what it's doing. My dear friends, this 4/B system -- we can actually call them all 4/B -- is not an acceptable system. It's not really a system for a legal state, because the fact that people who do the same are subject to different legal norms, the fact that they have different rights in terms of equity is actually reducing both productivity in the public and the peace of work. So it's important that the whole system be reorganized to be staffed. Now, of course, the Ministry of Labor also does studies on the Union Law. We also have serious problems with unionization. For example, labor unionization is extremely weak. Imagine, there are over 13 million workers in our country, the unionization rate is 11.95. In fact, when we include off-the-books employees, it's going down to 10.3, which is a terrible number. So 13 million, 581,000 official employees have 1,633,000 employees, these are unionists; others are still out of unionization. Can you imagine -- from the improved world -- that a country has signed the ILO Convention -- on medical rights -- the proportion of a country's union of workers is 10.3. Although your authority, in terms of office unionism, has been bragging from time to time, it can't be considered to be a serious distance. For example, last time, the Public Staff Advisory Board was made. It's done twice a year. It's not a binding board, it's like friends like that get together twice a year, drink tea, eat cake. There are no decisions made there, nor are they obeyed if there are decisions made there. There are decisions made in the past, such as disciplinary pardons. There was a disciplinary pardon in 2005, and in the 13 years since then, there was no disciplinary pardon. There's no way to understand why this can't be applied. This has not been implemented. We call them college workers. These are actually officers, but they work in the position of workers, they have a university degree, and they say: "I want a model of employment that is suitable for the university degree that I have finished -- I want to be an official -- I want to have the authority to sign, I want to have the right to rise in the mission. This is the Constitution, although it is a collective contract decree, although it is a collective contract decree. Permissions are still not being used on a working day basis, this is the KPDK decision. An additional indicator to the auxiliary services class is the KPDK decision; the ear is ringing, taa is a decision made during the Faruk Çelik period, and it has not yet come to life. Dear lawmakers, I have not heard a word from our Minister of Family, Labor and Social Services about the age of pensioners, and I have heard no comment. In fact, the ministry is the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, which should give the public the most accurate information, but we're not equipped with enough information. For example, when a law like this comes out, how many people are going to be affected in the first place -- in one year, in two years, in three years -- about people who are old in retirement? What's the burden of that on the public finances? We need to know this clearly. I believe some of our fellow lawmakers have also asked for these numbers, but so far we haven't received an informative, enlightening answer from the Ministry of Labor about the age of retirement. Of course, I'm wondering how much longer you're gonna be able to run away from those old-timers in retirement. I wonder what the EC PARTY will do about it. So the Constitutional Court made a decision last year, which, in fact, states that those who live in retirement are right, but it says that there should be an adjustment to the parliament. If they were wrong, sir, they would have decided that you had no right. The Constitutional Court has decided that there must be an arrangement in parliament, and thousands of people expect us to make such a law, but you're shaking it. This, I see, looks like those of you who are old enough to be retired are going to rock you in the March 31st election. We'll see how much it rocks. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Ladies and gentlemen of the law, there are 100,000 medical secretaries -- this note was delivered to me -- instead, information is coming in on the appointment of 300 people who received the certificate. So we have 100,000 medical secretaries with four years of college graduates, but we're getting the same information that the certificate holders were assigned in the same first place, when they should be assigned primarily based on their diplomas. That's not the right approach. Of course, those who are certified must be appointed, but the priority must be to get a degree in this country, in every area. We have to do this. I'd like to bring this to your attention. The right to pension from 4/C to 4/B. We talk a lot here. When you talk about pensioners, you argue that this is early retirement. Are you opposed to early retirement? You're against it. So you have to answer: From the moment some contractors from 4/C to 4/B get their pensions, their contracts are not renewed, while the staff is working optionally until they are 65, they say: "No, sir, you will retire. He may be 48 years old, he may be 50 years old. Sir, I thought we were against retirement at an early age. We've said it over and over again, and we've told the Labour Ministers in the past tense, but it's still in the contract text of these contracts. We are against retirement at an early age. You will say, "You have earned the right to receive a pension from these contracts."
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0374par0192	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0373par0193	This is a serious logic error, a serious logic error. So if you're really opposed to retirement at an early age, you have to allow these contract employees to work on the basis of will until they are 65 years old. There's a subcontractor issue with the municipalities. You're saying you're hiring subcontractors, but the mayor's office doesn't think so. So we moved from one company to another. They say, "Well, they want a staff." So you have to give them what they want -- as you promised -- the staff. The request for the recruitment of the assistant services class has also been expressed here by our friends who spoke before me. Hopefully, we can say some other things, but I thank you for running out of time, and I wish you good luck again. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0375par0199	Anthalya MP Tuba Vural is in charge. Here you are, Mr. Vural Alkal. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 15 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0376par0203	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to discuss the budget of the Ministry of Health for Central Management Budget Law Proposals in 2019. I salute your committee. Health is a basic human right. According to the third article of our Constitution, it is also a requirement of the social state. We physicians don't agree to be killed by the people we're trying to heal at work when we leave home to go to work in the morning. Şanlıurfa Mehmet Akif İnan İnan Education and Research Hospital where my colleague Ebru Kılıç, who has been subjected to violence, has also received urgent healing from here. We're doctors, we want to practice medicine. We see once again that violence cannot be prevented in health with so-called laws of violence. We know the reasons for this process. Since the first application of the Health Transformation Program began in 2003, we have said as doctors: This program is a market-oriented program. This programme treats health care as a meta, as a customer. In this program, not quality, but quantity is essential. All of this brings the physician and the patient face-to-face. The performance-based additional payment system implements unnecessary procedures for patients and increases health expenses. It is useful to be constantly revised and reviewed. First of all, we call it health, but Turkey is at the head of countries that have at least the least resources for health among OECD countries. Turkey is a country between 35 OECD countries that splits resources from 4 per cent to 6 per cent from illegal domestic product to the health sector. Turkey, on the other hand, is among the countries that spend the most on drugs and medical supplies in OECD countries, as well as among the OECD countries in terms of the number of doctors, nurses and beds per patient. Looking at all of these rates, we've seen that we haven't achieved the success we've been asked for over the years in presentation of primary health care and increasing the level of use. One of the most important issues I'd like to address in the Ministry of Health's budget talks is city hospitals that are being built. There are 1,514 hospitals in Turkey, and 560 are private hospitals. So, why are city hospitals being built in public-special partnerships? Why is the state facing great financial costs and financial risks? There are some questions I'd like to ask while the Minister is here. What are the terms of the tender for the construction of these hospitals, and why isn't it public? What companies have been involved in the tenders? On average, how many TL are these hospitals made of? Have most hospitals asked for a CED report on the area? Is the company's operating term 25 years? What are the guarantees? What are the controls on the construction of these constructions? How much has each hospital been paid for so far, and how much more will they be paid for in the coming term? How much rent will the Health Department pay the company per year, and these payments will be made from currency? What's the total amount of foreign financing for the opened city hospitals in exchange for foreign currency? What's the reason for guaranteeing 70 percent of production companies? According to what is this hailing rate determined? What are the number of citizens who complain about transportation and service to city hospitals that have been opened? Most hospitals have not been paid much attention to city planning and have been done outside the city. How many state hospitals have been shut down and what is the status of equipment and equipment in the hospitals that have been closed? In 2021, the rent price of city hospitals, the service price, the cost of being transferred abroad, was about 2.5 million liras in 2018, which would be about $17m. Are these figures realistic? Today, 6.8 per cent of the health ministry's budget, except for return capital, constitutes these rent prices and service costs. In 2021, is it about 25 percent toward the future? There's no clear, transparent information available on these matters, and I think with great secrecy, these projects are going on. If 70 per cent is not provided, the missing part will be completed. The government has committed to the company that has made the promise. In addition, international loans are guaranteed to those companies who are exempt from VAT, Public Contraction Law, stamp tax, and all kinds of fine tuition. You look at the service; don't look at the costs, don't look at how it's done, don't dabble in their ethical dimensions." We don't think anyone has the right to say it. Thus, we feel it is necessary to inform the public properly. There's one thing the AK PARTY government doesn't think about in city hospitals. What's the state of city hospitals when one of the six holdings he's bid on goes down? According to the Ministry of Development report, $30.3 billion will be paid in 20 years as rent for city hospitals that have been completed so far. In total, over $50 billion will be paid for 32 planned city hospitals by 2050. This will bring a huge burden of debt to our government. City hospitals projects have previously been implemented in England, and are considered to be the culprits of today's health system failures. How will you account for the failure of this project, which brought ruin to the British health system despite the warnings of academic circles? Members of parliament, another important problem is public hospitals that have been thrown into the roof. Public hospitals are not invested in opening city hospitals. The biggest reason for this is the quotas given to city hospitals. Medical equipment from public hospitals has been left behind technologically, and patients are sentenced to city hospitals. People who work in public hospitals and citizens are as much victims as they complain about it. For example, when public hospital management asks for the device they need, we will send the hospital's device to be shut down. Public hospitals also have a problem with human resources management. Eighty-five general secretaries, 255 presidents, are on the payroll to serve in the ministry's new construction. With what face are you going to explain the appointment of high-paid executives who have no experience in health care, from perfusionist to pathologist, from physical therapist to medical staff army waiting for 470,000 appointments? Another issue is the number of patients applying to a physician per person. According to SGK data, 276 million health care servers were applied in 2017 and 519 million health services in 2017. Are these numbers a sign that doctors don't have enough time to get a patient's story? The distribution of total hospital beds in Turkey is not proportional to the population, it is unstable. Again, according to the official figures given, it is clear that the number of beds falling to 10,000 was 25 in 2007, while in 2017 it increased to 27 in 2017, but those increases were still at very low levels. So that's how many city hospitals we're building. The number of beds per 10,000 people we're claiming still appears to be low. The dating system is the correct system in particular, but we know that they've been thrown into the emergency room because of the glitches in their application and people complaining that they can't make an appointment. People can't make an appointment a week early to be examined, so they apply to emergency services because they can't reach qualified health care. In fact, even though it's not urgent, such concentration in emergencies also plays a vital role in violence against health workers and physicians. In fact, patients without emergency care do not go to regular examinations during the day, and then they wait for the evening and apply to emergency services. Which leads to pile-ups in emergency rooms. In 2017, the application rate for the emergency clinic reached 29 per cent at the Ministry of Health institutions. I'd like to ask 600 MPs: which one of you doesn't get a phone call every day? You're all getting phone calls every day, I think, to get a patient a doctor's appointment. I mean, I'm a new congressman, and it's been two months since I started there, and I know I get at least one phone call every day. Would you make an appointment at that hospital? Since you've built such a big, beautiful dating system, I'd like to ask the MPs to consider why calls from the counties, from the provinces, to make an appointment every day. In our country where the economic crisis took place, you evacuated the 90-year-old historical health department building, moved to a new building at an exorbitant price like $2.5 million plus VAT. Why did you do such an app? Mr. Secretary, you're talking about local and national in medicine, but who shut down the pharmaceutical factories? The AK PARTY government closed the Social Insurance Institution's Pharmaceutical Factory in Bomonti in 2005. Health Minister Recep Akdağ argued that we had no intention of having a pharmaceutical factory. After thirteen years, you're calling for local medicine to solve the drug shortage and the high price problem. You've terminated domestic pharmaceutical production in your time of power. Aren't you the one who sentenced Turkey to foreign-dependent imported medicine? Congressmans, let's remind you at this point that in the last 15 years, we have seen the balance of imported-based medicines in Turkey break down in favour of imported drugs. In 2002, the size of the local pharmaceutical market in our country was 66 per cent, while today it has declined to 42 per cent. One of the four drugs sold in the market today is imported medicine. I'd also like to talk about patient participation. The victims of our patients are continued by the power to collect patient turnouts from the pharmacy for medical fees. Pre-medicine accession from patients was taken from pension by 10% and from employee by 20%. Despite what he said, collecting costs such as drug participation, participation in examinations, and prescription participation under different names from citizens today has turned pharmacists into tellers in a sense. While the government is inflicting on its citizens the same victims in health care, unfortunately, it does not allow Syrian refugees to survive. According to Migration Administration's October data, there are now around 3,600,000 Syrian refugees in Turkey. It is our duty, of course, to protect the human rights and health of refugees, but while a citizen of the Republic of Turkey pays for participation in 14 pens, the failure of Syrian refugees to pay this share leads to reactions by a significant number of our people and health workers. In your budget presentation, you have sentences that start with the prevention of health-fed diseases. At a time when the economic crisis is so deep, how long will we listen to the question of a minimum wager or an unemployed person, what kind of money are we going to feed on? You don't think the TBMM food receipts that break the record of sharing on social media are going to turn into a different kind of complaining tool that's heavy on our consciences tomorrow? I'd also like to talk about the imported animals you took control of from the vets and gave to the engineers. We've all seen what you've done to both our flesh-eating citizen and the local animal owner, the only thing that matters to us is what you've done to our farmer. Anthrax didn't terrorize every house like a nightmare? How did you allow the privilege given to three or five wealthy dairy makers to refer to the health of our people by means of the institution of the state? Can you deny eating meat with the same fears? At the end of my words, I'd like to talk about family health centers. Family medicine, which is the first step of health care, needs to be focused on foster care. It also increases health costs for family physicians to be transformed into fillings of the health care system, to be left dysfunctional and worthless. Today, family physicians are forced to work under contract based on performance, subject to patient pressure and violence. The first step is to try to see health care in rent-free buildings and unscheduled standards. Family physicians are required to report on almost everything that comes to mind from hepatitis reports to driver's license reports to get into the pool. Family physicians, whose primary job is to practice protective medicine, which is to prevent the disease from happening, are drowning in prescription repetitions, labs, clinic services. The physicians and staff are overwhelmed by heavy labor. Think of a family physician who looks at 100 patients a day, monitors chronic diseases, school children, pregnancies, infants from kindergarten to upper secondary school; not enough, she teaches mothers to breastfeeding, dressing, taking care of blood, checking for burial licenses, monitoring the labs, monitoring the process of getting results done, helping other institutions, faculty, and hospitals to study and survey the research and surveys done by other institutions, ovaries cancer, bowel cancer screenings, bowel cancer screenings. You're gonna get a license, you're gonna get a job, you're gonna start school, you're gonna need a report, you're gonna need a family doctor. A family physician has to follow his rent, pay the staff who work with him, maintain the care, clean up the family health centre, as well as all this work. He works for the government, under the status of the other public official, but he's responsible for stopping and taxing the environment. The family doctor and our staff have no permits. There are family physicians who haven't taken a leave of absence in years. After maternity leave, he doesn't have a free leave of absence in family medicine. It's okay if he finds a doctor to replace him on his 16-week maternity leave, but if he doesn't, the Ministry sends a doctor and gets half the family physician's fee. All of this reduces the interest of health workers and the community in family physicians. Family physicians have lost their motivation for labor, lack of permission, rent pressure, performance pressure, and violence. It is only natural for us physicians and health workers to work in safe environments, without violence, to maintain professional independence, to contribute to good medical values and vocational education.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0377par0230	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0376par0231	If we intend to think and behave with quality in providing health care, we cannot ignore the fact that the satisfaction of the public service depends directly on the doctor's satisfaction, and I salute you all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0377par0234	The last word for the group belongs to Eskişehir MP Arslan Kabukcuoğlu. Here you go, Mr. Shellguy. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0378par0238	Mr. President, distinguished members, the great Turkish nation who are watching us on television screens, I salute you all. I have made a pledge on behalf of the GOOD PARTY Group regarding the budgetary budgetary budget for Turkey's Borders and Coastal Health Directorate in the 2019 Budget Law Proposal. Compared to the previous budgets of the institution, there seems to be not much difference. What I see as a positive development in the budget is that in 2019, the institution, which used to cost more than 50 per cent of its revenues, is that in 2019, its costs are up to 115 per cent more. I'd like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the Coast Guard Command. Our country has a shoreline of 8.333 kilometers. Our Coast Guard Command's responsibilities include half of our land area, about 400,000 square kilometers. The number of gendarmes and police personnel assigned to secure our territorial areas is about 400. The safety of our seas, with a measurement of half the size of a hundred, is provided by 4,500 personnel serving on the sea. We have 69 elements on our shores, approximately 120 kilometers apart. Our country is geographically on the transit route of both drug trafficking and human trafficking. These criminal organizations use our seas. There's no way the Coast Guard Command can stop smuggling or trafficking or drug trafficking with so many personnel. As a matter of fact, statistics show that the amount of drug seized on land is expressed by a ton, while the amount of drugs seized from the seas are expressed by grams. In human trafficking, it is clear that there has been no further action than collecting bodies from the shores. When we look at the 2019 budget, it seems that the government does not want to make any progress in this matter, it is as if it is silently approved. The government's priority is to increase the number of police and gendarmes in order to prevent a social response. I'd like to pass along some of my views on the overall budget. The 2019 budget, which the government submitted to parliament, is a continuation of the EC PARTI rulings, which began in 2002. When we look at the whole budget, like every year, we don't have farmers, we don't have workers, we don't have producers, we don't have technology, we don't have welfare, we don't have justice, no education, no healthcare, no development, we don't have freezing soldiers. For employees and pensioners, it's just austerity and patience. Again, nothing is being done for a budget that every advanced, advanced citizen will look forward to. We also see the implications of the policies imposed by this government in the budget. What's the government doing? As you can see from the budget, the government's priority is to follow an election-related policy. In order to stay in power, the government, which created its own wealth, its own state, its own media, continues to use all of its resources, except for the routine public service of the budget. Since 2002, the end of its domestic and external resource, which has been driven away from production by policies that have been followed since 2002, cannot be borrowed with the same resources as before, due to the end of its concrete-based growth policy, and the return of global capital to its homeland. So we had to face the crisis in 2018. Although the government tried to bill local and foreign priests for this crisis, the Turkish person now sees the truth. The crisis in 2018 showed us that without returning to production policies, without research, development support, without entering the first 20 percent of education, without implementing an impartial judicial system, unemployment, inflation and interest cannot be permanently reduced, without permanent growth. Our country is now in the middle-income trap. Obviously, we're trying to hold on to the middle income trap, and with the latest crisis, we've seen that there's a chance that he might lose him, too. As you know, the Court has the authority to oversee the government. Despite all the pressure, the picture the Court laid out on behalf of the nation reveals once again how dire the situation was. It is the most obvious sign of corruption within the state that the senior executives, whether they do not publish reports of activity or do not engage in any regulatory activities concerning the corruption that has been detected, have shown a very comfortable attitude and do not even need to answer the questions of lawmakers representing the nation. The point of our country is that, unfortunately, there is only one man who holds all kinds of power, all institutions answer only to him, whatever he says, no one can touch you, and if you make him angry, you can't seek your right anywhere. When we look at the budget presentation talks prepared by the government, we're dealing with this painting: You sold out all the profits, but your ambition wasn't enough, and you need more. When the dollar was plenty, you owed a lot of money and a lot of money. You buried that money in concrete, when you should have spent it on production, on investment. Thinking about people is not about raising consumption by creating day-to-day solutions as the administration does, but about putting it in a cradle and shaking it when you say education, but about funding people's real needs, education, reduced unemployment. Every nail that crashed into the country was either a loan or a loan guarantee or an unemployment fund you collected from the workers. In 2017 the sea ran out, foreign capital representatives asked you to mortgage the country so that you could win the upcoming elections, and you created the Entity Fund. You lowered the price of gas to lower the public's blood pressure for a while. You gave pensioners a thousand lira allowance for the holidays. With these actions, you won the June 24th election, but you had to establish a priced military and zoning peace in order to cover the budget deficit. You don't seem to be able to keep the budget anymore, but you don't want to leave. In the coming period, you will increase taxes, and the Turks will no longer have money, and you will now provide outside money with some financial instruments. You're going to make the country even more in debt. If it costs you triple what other countries pay you, you have no choice but to find money. With such thoughts, he wishes our budget to be good for our country, and I thank you all.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0379par0248	Thank you. Dear friends, this concludes the speech for the good party. I now pledge to Mr Mustafa Destici, the leader of the Grand Union Party, Ankara MP of political parties who are not in the group. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0380par0254	Thank you. Mr. President, I salute you with respect and conversation on behalf of my people and my community, representatives of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. The budgets of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Health, Family, Labour and Social Services and our organisations are being discussed today. First of all, I'd like to express my gratitude to the well-being and the hard work. Of course, I thank all of our officials and security forces, especially Mr. Süleyman Noble, for their superior efforts and achievements in the fight against terrorism, on behalf of my own people and my community, thank you to our veterans while we bless our martyrs. Lord, I always wish our security forces would be your friend and helper. Of course, in the meantime, I'd like to say that our Ministry of Internal Affairs has been particularly useful, especially in recent years, in terms of law enforcement, dealing with drugs, roads, and security practices at city entrances. I'd like to say here in particular that it's become a horror dream of those who try to commit terrorism. Of course, it is our wish that our Ministry of Health, our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, again be truly successful, because the decision of the House is a new system of approval of our nation and a newly formed government, our new ministers and their first budgets. Of course, we need to wish success and help by expressing our shortcomings, by expressing our shortcomings, by speaking the truth, because when our ministry succeeds, our nation will be healthy, happy, and safer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0381par0261	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0380par0262	Thank you. Of course, family is especially the most important asset of the Turkish community. The stronger our family is and the happier our family members are, the more prosperous our society and our nation will be. That's why I want to draw special attention to our disabled citizens here. We have over 10 million disabled citizens in Turkey, and there are important steps taken recently to facilitate the lives of our citizens, but I want to say that adding new steps to these steps is a necessity, because we are healthy, and we are both disabled candidates. Knowing this, we must also support the steps taken together to make the lives of disabled citizens easier for our brothers and sisters.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0381par0265	Let's finish, please, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0380par0266	Thank you. Again, in order for the welfare of our community, our Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, especially for our retired citizens, elderly citizens, widows and orphans to live their lives comfortably, again, yes, they have some efforts, but I would like to express that on top of that, there must be some new practices and efforts. Of course, these three ministries are important, and so are our other ministries, but we're discussing the budgets of these three ministries. I express that their services are too great and too important to measure with money, and I call upon my great Lord to bless the budget for our country, for our nation, for our country, for our country, for our country, for our state, and for all of you, with respect and conversation. I wish you all the best.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0382par0271	Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now there's a request for a statement on behalf of the individuals. On the other hand, Aksaray MP Cengiz Aydoğdu... Here you go, Mr. Moondog. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0383par0332	Mr. President, dear members of the High Council, I have taken my word on the budget we're making in the new era. I'd like to submit to the tolerance of the High Council for my profession, which I come from within and belong to. The Ministry of Internal Affairs and the administration of private property are in our administrative structure -- the tradition is not easy -- the public's legitimacy, authority sources are very ancient, but they are in recent times, and despite the destruction of modernism, they are still living in a number of values, values. These values are values that value a man in the social field, partly irrational, but also contribute to the way he needs to be a nation, which appears to be quite realistic during the government's public service presentation. Even the modern Western world is now looking for pre-modern moral values such as honor, dignity, honesty, truth, justice, clarity, loyalty, trust, neighborhood, patriotism, patriotism, sacrifice, sacrifice, cooperation. It's safe to say that humanity is looking for morality again, in the most obvious way, in the most ancient sense. Change, change, reform, or revolution are times when we should pay attention to the values and values of the unit that built nations and kept them together, in what the ancients call revelations. The famous futurologist, future scientist Drucker, says we should keep our eyes on the foundations at the time of change. It's the cornerstone of our administrative structure, dear friends, the management of property. As far as the public is concerned, it's certainly the building block of our democratisation. With the ministry, but apart from the Ministry, it comes from a journey of its own, older than the Ministry. When it comes to the management of property, sometimes the state office, sometimes the civil service, is the media drama of the Turkish administration system. The tension between government and civil service, the tension between governance and governance and service. The day we get through this tension, our administrative adventure will begin a new phase. Tanzimat (Kechcizade Fuat Pasha) of Tanzimat. No reform can replace raising a qualified officer. Believe me, ever since then, Turkey has never had a chance to think about its officer's qualifications, always in a hurry, always in a hurry to raise something. Despite modernisation, Turkey completed its modernisation by hand with the actors we never had a chance to think about. In the words of the late Mümtaz Turhan Hoxha, we have completed our forced cultural changes by the hands of government and civil servants. We said that administrative tradition is not easy. It would take years, believe me, if we tried to rebuild a new administrative actor as respectable and legitimate as the management of property in Turkey. Mr. Secretary, in the process of restructuring the property management administration, we have the right to our rights in the process of rebuilding the administration... But from here, I also address my brothers, the head of property, who will rebuild themselves in accordance with Turkey's progress, our administrative tradition, our democratisation, our presidential government system, will lead to a new phase. Besides, all over the world, every period of history, a representative of central administration is always needed in the country, always needs an actor in the central country. It's a condition of capital administrations, capital and provinces. Although the procedure and its fundamentals differ, its connection to the central and rural administration is vital. The quality of this contact is the quality of management in the country.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0384par0339	Let's finish, please, Mr. Moondog.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0383par0340	What we call democracy is the opportunity to improve this quality. Minister, I would also like to point out that we have put the Office of General Office of Mahaloli Administration in another ministry, which is an administrative obligation, but I believe that the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Interior must definitely develop it. I say I'll vote in favor of the budget, and I salute the High Council.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0385par0344	Thank you. Dear friends, now, on behalf of the administration, I'm going to make a promise to the ministers. First, Minister of Health Fahrettin Husband. Here you go, Mr. Husband. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 23 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0350	Mr. President, I stand before you today as part of the 2019 Budget Law Proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Health and its subsidiaries in 2019 and the final account of 2017. On behalf of myself and my Ministry, I salute you all. First, we thank Mr. Arife Polat Decent, Mr. Recep Candy, Mr. Mustafa Azaygöz, Mr. Selim Gültekin, Mr. Adnan Selçı Mızraklı, Mr. Semra Güzel, Mr. Habip Abak, Mr. Burhanettin Bulk, Mr. Gamze Taşcıer, Mr. Ali Şum, Mr. Muhitttin Taşdoğan, Mr. Hayati Öçal Çakükoğlu, Mr. Tuba Öçal and Arslan Kabuçukoğlu. [[AK PARTY AND GOOD PARTY APPLAUSE]] According to Article 56 of our Constitution, health is a public service where the state assumes its direct or indirect responsibility. Our final vision as the Ministry of Health is to have a Turkey, where health care is adopted as a whole society, where everyone's health rights are protected, and in need, everyone has access to quality health care in their time and time. I believe that this can be achieved by mobilising the resources of the entire country, regardless of public-university and private sectors, leading the risky groups to the most remote part of society, encouraging the whole community to be healthy, efficient, righteous, sustainable, with respect for our citizens' habits, beliefs, and expectations, and a health system that meets their needs. For such a system, we need to make sure that health is trained in the most appropriate and high quality of human strength that will successfully meet the emerging expectations of society and new situations. We need to train health professionals who are capable of using future health technologies, not the medical staff we need today. In vocational training, our goal will be quality education, not just quota. Again, we're going to introduce a model of service associated with performance management by making the human power process and technology efficiency measurable and comparable. It is a prerequisite for creating a healthy society to ensure that individuals and civilian groups, who are the building blocks of society, are not only consumers of health care, but also conscious of being a health lawyer. For a healthy future, we will prevent any addiction or abuse, including tobacco, alcohol, substance and technology. In our rapidly aging society, starting with our family physicians, we have to ensure that our people grow healthy with an effective chronic disease management system. Our goal is to reach the highest level in all basic health indicators, including the death of a mother, infant mortality, immunization, and chronic illness. We'd like to move on to a time when we've just begun to open city hospitals to an opportunity, where our universities and I, together with a model of synergy, are presented to the services of our citizens with the highest-quality human resources of the most modern technology and the most suitable locations. It's not difficult to turn our country into a health tourist base with a new model of service that we're going to add to our health care system, which has managed to keep citizens' satisfaction high at very low costs. We aim to speed up digitalization in the field of healthcare to facilitate our citizens' access to every stage of health care, to ensure that they receive the right service at the right time, and to ensure more efficient use of resources through decision-support systems. It is possible to create a significant economic opportunity, given our country's geopolitical situation and recent influence in its region, by localizing vaccine, medicine and medical equipment technology as localized as possible. Mr. President, dear MPs, our ministry's main mission will be to protect and improve the health of individuals and society with a human-centered approach. Protective and basic health care, which is part of the Ministry of Health's basic duties, is at the top of our priorities. Protective services have always been our priority, the budget for protective and basic services increased from $823m to about 14 billion Turkish liras in 2002-2018. For 2019, the budget is raised to 18 billion and 66 million Turkish liras. Every mother and child is our most precious. Our control rate for prenatal mother candidates has reached 99 percent. Now, all hospital births are made in baby-friendly hospitals. The number of monitoring per baby is at the level of the developed countries at 8.5. In order to prevent permanent injury with early detection and treatment, our scans of our babies have reached 99 percent success rate. Also, we continue to support free iron and free vitamin D. As you know, the vaccine is the most important tool to protect the health of not only the individual but the whole society and future generations. We are among the countries that have implemented the largest inoculation program for 12 different diseases under the expanded Immunization Program. We're world leaders in vaccination success compared to population size. We are determined to continue our persistent policy on vaccinating over the years. As a result of these efforts, we're at the top of the world's fastest mother and baby mortality rate. We are still trying to prevent the C-section from being done unnecessarily, putting the health of women and babies at risk. We've reached our destination in public hospitals. In order to encourage normal childbirth and prevent non-indicative C-sections, we apply the Birth Action Plan. Our family physicians are now part of the family. They're not just doctors anymore, they're doing scans, they're doing training to protect themselves from advanced age diseases. The first step is to strengthen health care, with more than 24,000 family physicians and, again, the same number of family health workers throughout the country. In addition to immunization and child health care, we now increase the effectiveness of our family physicians in chronic disease management. Our gift is always, everywhere, everywhere, in every situation, a healthy life. We aim to increase mobility with the ongoing awareness studies, public spotlights, incentive programs. As in all developed countries, obesity has become a major problem in our country. Unfortunately, our children are also experiencing an increased frequency of obesity. Studies show that one in four of our children are overweight or obese. We continue to implement the Healthy Feeding and Moving Life Programme by updating action plans for adult and childhood obesity. With school food logos, we determine foods that can be sold in schools. It is our duty to ensure our citizens' right to fresh air. We'll continue our fight against tobacco without ever letting go. The legal arrangement, which took effect on December 5th, contains practices that will strengthen our hands very much. Now the cigarette packs will be one type, and they won't have any attractive elements on them. There is also a ban on selling cigarettes in health, sports and educational services. (EA/DG) In addition, there is a ban on the presence of any image in cinema, theatre, or even the Internet that can carry the meaning of a cigarette commercial. I want to thank our great Council for supporting our struggle on this subject. Our goal is more than to meet the health demands of our elders, to ensure healthy aging. We deal with chronic diseases with academic community and NGOs with determination. We have joint action plans. By 2025, we aim to reduce the causes of early 70-year-old deaths due to heart disease, cancer, diabetes, or chronic lung disease by 25 percent. We have been awarded the United Nations special award, as you know, for the extraordinary contribution of our successful efforts to prevent chronic diseases to achieve UN Sustainable Development Goals. This award was presented to Mr. President during the UN General Assembly meeting. Mr. President, valued lawmakers, we're working to provide qualified health care in our country, including public hospitals, private hospitals, university hospitals. We aim to increase the number of qualified beds from providing the effectiveness of clinics and emergency services and improve the quality of service majors, from reducing the intensity of emergency services to increasing patient and employee satisfaction, and to getting to a better point in many areas of our country, from the localizing of the materials and equipment we use in health. In our hospitals, we move from ward-type rooms to private rooms with bathrooms and bathrooms and privacy. As of today, we have increased our qualified bed ratio to 70 per cent, which is 6 per cent at the head of the Health Transformation Programme. Our goal is that all our rooms are qualified in 2023. The increased number of intensive care beds has solved an important problem in the care and treatment of patients who require critical care. Patient stories left for dead due to critical care shortages are now off the agenda of our country. Our citizens' pocket health costs are about 16 percent. Let me remind you that the OECD average is 19 percent. We'll continue to take the necessary measures to reduce it further. We've made it mandatory by our hospitals to supply cancer medicines for bedridden patients, including day-to-day. We've prevented patients from dealing with a drug supply prior to a corrosive treatment like chemo. We got a price advantage by mass-buying from the Ministry Center. The last thing we got was a 71 percent discount on two major cancer drugs by mass purchase. This was provided during the time of the exchange. We also prevented additional fees for cancer patients in private health services. We extend our government's tender hand by providing home care to bed-ridden patients. From 2012 to today, we served 1,200,000 people with home health care. In 2019, we aim to reach 1,350,000 people. We're restructuring hospital emergency services. Off-duty police services have been initiated to reduce applications to emergency services. We're reorganizing emergency room physics in our ill-intensity research hospitals. We also assign 6,500 people in areas such as emergency medical technicians, data preparation management, ambulance drivers, in the coming months to reduce the workload of our field health workers and provide our patients with better quality health care. In 2019, we will appoint 25,000 medical staff, including practitioners, specialists, dentists, and pharmacists. One of the first legislature activities of Turkey's Grand National Assembly during the 27th term was an arrangement for the rights of self that health workers have long waited for. With the support of our lawmakers, additional payments, improvements have been made on the pensions of physicians and dentists. We've been given the actual service increase that all our health workers have been waiting for. I would also like to thank our deputies for their support for these achievements by our medical staff. Violence is a disgrace to mankind in every way. Violence is a concept that we medics, whose duty is to serve man, do not want to hear about in any way. It's not just for the medics, it's unacceptable for all people. Unfortunately, we all regret the fact that violence is on the news almost every day. Health workers, unfortunately, are heavily involved in the victims of violence. It's not just our problem, it's a major problem for many countries. For this, I believe we have to develop an attitude towards violence, not just as the Ministry of Health, but as a society. To approach the issue as a matter of security and to seek its solution at just one point will not result. In order to do that, we have to increase our measures with a more versatile approach. We're planning a nonviolent action plan in a comprehensive health. In this scope, rehabilitation of the physical environments where patient and health personnel meet, reducing the excess workload of work on health staffs, saving our doctors from the threat of malpraxis and compensation, improving our citizens' health readers, developing healthcare and service culture with a sense of social peace, implementing patient-medicine communication, and finally implementing deterrent criminal sanctions. We aim to bring together our citizens and health workers in environments where mutual trust and respect-based communication can be made healthy. As patients and medical staff, we need to create a service environment where both sides feel secure. It is the public's responsibility to ensure that our colleagues serve in a secure environment, to deter violence, and to ensure that criminals are punished in the way they deserve. According to the new legal regulation adopted by our Supreme Assembly, it is a legal obligation for those who exercise violence against health staff to be arrested directly by law enforcement, without complaint, to be released from the police station, to be transferred to the state's attorney's office to oversee judicial proceedings, to be subject to the adoption of the case under the republic's attorney generalship, to take the testimony of the subject, victim or witness at the workplace. I believe this legal arrangement will contribute substantially to the deterrent of health. Dear lawmakers, in our country, where the population has increased over the years, it is imperative that new health facilities be added to our citizens in order to be given qualified health care, to renew those who are present. The average age of our hospitals has reached forty-nine years, while new investments have narrowed it down to only thirteen years. The number of hospital beds in our country is 28, while the average OECD is 47, and the average of the European Union is 50. According to the population, we continue to work to reach the level of beds in developed countries. Between 2019-2021, we aim to complete 168 hospitals with 19,782 beds. Next year, we've launched 67 more hospitals, aiming for another 6,480-qualified bed capacity. With public-private partnership projects, we began to present future hospitals in Turkey to the services of our citizens. We plan city hospitals in Turkey, which is strong enough to reach its 2023 target, to be the final destination for healthcare and service. Our goal is that every patient who's applied to these hospitals can end their health problems in a center. We plan to open the gates of city hospitals to our universities and set up a center of excellence around here. The opening of our city hospitals to universities will allow both the quality of our services and our universities to make a new opening. Giving a qualified human resource the opportunity to serve in infrastructure-powered modern facilities, meanwhile supported by certain incentive models, will make it easier for us to establish a successful medical center for excellence, which requires advanced education and skills. In addition, one of the most important building blocks of Turkey's goal to make Turkey an important brand in health tourism will be city hospitals with 30,000 qualified beds. Until now, the hospitals of Adana, Isparta, Mersin, Yozgat, Kayseri, Elazığ, Eskişehir and Manisa have been in service. In the coming days, we aim to open the third largest hospital complex in the 3,704-bed world in Ankara. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, in the meantime, I'd like to address some groundbreaking remarks about city hospitals. In addition to the fact that our public-private construction period has been reduced from eight to ten years to two years, the public is known for its advantages, including the spread of investment loads for many years, and the removal of the risks of sustaining the public through long-term maintenance and repair costs. As it is said here and on certain platforms in public, the issue of guarantees in city hospitals is a very common topic. I'll point out, the allegations that you're guaranteed patients are unrealistic. There are no guarantees or commitments in the number of surgeries in the emergency services, or in the patient who is in the clinic examinations, or in the number of surgeries, which is full of beds.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0387par0381	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0382	The subject of purchases of services, such as labs and imaging, is also distorted. Thanks to the threshold values set for a substantial reduction according to SUT prices, labs and imaging services are afforded cheaply at a rate we can't see anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0388par0383	We'll discuss the contracts, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0384	Please listen to me, if you know what I mean. 40 per cent off by 70 per cent; 40 per cent off for more than 70 per cent, and 15 per cent off for the labs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0389par0387	Rent's too high, rent's too high.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0388	The SUT prices we're all complaining about right now, so the prices we call service can't be produced by any of them, they're being given a discount on the same prices, so with MR 62 lira, it can go down to $23, there's no such service anywhere in the world.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0390par0389	Whatever you say goes the other way, Mr. Secretary, the other way around.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0390	I'm specifically saying that this is not twenty-five years for service purchases, but I'm stressing that this is 70 percent...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0391par0392	Mr. Secretary, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0393	Mr. President, this isn't over.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0392par0394	Mr. Secretary, share the contracts, we'll discuss it together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0391par0395	It's not over, but it's running out of time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0396	My ministers will give you three or five minutes. It was kind of important.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0391par0397	Let's wrap this up in a minute, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0398	Also, these purchases are valid not for 25 years, but only for five years; please remember that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0393par0399	Mr. Secretary, share the contracts with the public.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0400	So our Yozgat and Isparta city hospitals will be given three years later, with no privileges from the existing firm, with a tender period that everyone can participate in, not 25 years. In addition, the city hospitals project is said to have been given the land to build the hospital, which is said to have been given to the contractor for free, which is never in question. At the end of the 25 years, the land and the building are left to the public, which means it's given the upper rights, so the land is not given for free, the land is ours.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0394par0404	Mr. Secretary, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0405	I'm going to tell you another very important issue: as alleged, no public-private agreement has ever been signed by the Health Department or the Ministry of Treasury or Finance for city hospitals in private. I'll say it again...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0395par0406	Treasure guarantee...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0407	I'm saying there's no way. In no way did the Treasury or the Treasury or the Health Department sign a debt-laundering agreement.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0396par0410	Why don't you explain the contract?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0397par0411	Why do you keep the contracts, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0412	In addition, these tenders are transparent.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0397par0413	Mr. Secretary, why are you hiding the contracts?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0414	The contracts are transparent.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0397par0415	Where is Heffaf?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0416	It's open now.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0398par0417	Secret, secret!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0418	I'll explain it to you, listen to me, I'll explain it to you. [[Noises from CHP rows]] You can understand how contracts are made, if you can read the official newspaper.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0399par0422	Mr. Secretary, address the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0423	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0399par0425	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0426	Look -- all phases -- it's a tender for four phases. First of all, pre-equipment tenders are being announced -- in a way that all of you can read -- the first bids are being made, the final equivalent bids are being evaluated and the open reduction is conducted transparently, and there are not three companies involved in this tender.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0400par0427	Why isn't he being audited, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0386par0428	There's been 17 of them, 17 of them.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0400par0430	Why hasn't he been audited? Why has he been subject to the Law of Contraction? Why is it not subject to the Law of Contraction, but why can't it be inspected?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0401par0431	Mr. Secretary, we're saying the final contract, we're not saying the final contracts, we're not suggesting a tender.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0402par0432	The question-answer hasn't started yet!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0403par0433	Guys, let's hear it, please. Let's hear it, Mr. Secretary is making a statement.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0401par0434	Without seeing the last contract signed, that's what you're talking about.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0403par0435	Mr. Emir...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0436	I just... The people who know about construction know that city hospitals -- I'm talking about eight hospitals that have been delivered to us -- I think you can analyze this figure well -- the square meter costs us $4,855, the current number today, $895. Where's the five times the cost?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0405par0440	How much does the rent cost at the end of the contract?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0406par0441	You've done $27 billion.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0442	There's no savings in health. The most expensive health care is the inferior one, and the most expensive health care is the unreachable because the price is paid.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0407par0444	Mr. Secretary, what are we going to do? They don't.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0408par0445	Minister, can you send one of those contracts to the political party groups?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0446	There's localization, there's health tourism, there's health market, there's that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0407par0447	I hope you'll be able to complete them in question-answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0448	All right, then I'll finish the question-answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0407par0449	Bow, let's close.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0450	Mr. President, our esteemed lawmakers, with the selfless efforts of over a million of our health workers, we've made these achievements, and we believe we're going to make many more. I give thanks to them.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0409par0452	College hospitals are in debt. How are you going to save university hospitals, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0404par0453	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers wish our budget of 2019 and the work we're going to do with this budget would be a blessing, and I thank you for your contributions, and I wish you a healthy time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0410par0455	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0411par0456	They're looking at the budget, they're clapping, what the hell!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0410par0457	Mr. Gürer, are you uncomfortable?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0411par0458	They're budgeting.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0410par0459	Dear friends, I have something to ask of you. There's a hum in the living room. We're wearing out the voice of the character on the stand, and he has to be more tired, screaming to make his voice heard. If it's important for our friends to talk here, please let them talk backstage, but don't let them raise a noise like that in the living room.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0411par0460	Look over there, this is the 1st party.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0412par0461	Mr. President, the opposition is listening, it's not listening.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0410par0462	Nobody point at anyone, everyone, anyone who's talking, they probably know themselves, so let's take precautions, please. Mr. Altay, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0413par0466	Thank you very much, Mr. President, and thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's been a commotion, as well as the citizens who have been watching us. Our friends who talked about health had claims, and the Minister said, "It's not like that, it's like that." Which one will people believe now? They're both sons of the country.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0414par0468	People will believe what's right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0413par0469	Sir, excuse me. Now we say there are five political groups in Parliament. Mr. Secretary, we're asking you. If you send a copy of these production and business contracts to groups, if our friends' claims are wrong, I'll get out of here tomorrow or the next day, and I'll apologize.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0415par0471	Mr. President, it's in the transcripts, you can pick it up there.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0413par0472	Sir, the report... we call it a contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0416par0473	What are you hiding?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0417par0474	You're hiding it from us.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0413par0475	Minister, on behalf of the great nation, we demand a copy of these contracts. I do, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0418par0477	What were they charged with?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0419par0478	We want to see it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0418par0479	They're not gonna keep it a business secret.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0420par0480	That's not true!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0421par0481	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0422par0482	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0421par0483	Are you going to answer me?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0422par0484	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0423par0485	Answer me, but give me the contracts, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0421par0486	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0422par0488	It's very clear how much money we're paying with our budget numbers on this issue right now, how much service we're paying, and what I'm saying is...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0424par0489	Contract, contract...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0422par0490	I've tried to make this very clear, very simple, very clear. And yet I don't understand if there's something that's not understood.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0424par0492	Mr. Secretary, contract, contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0422par0493	I'm saying that the Ministry has never signed a contract in terms of repayment in any way, meaning the burden of debt. What can I say if you don't believe that?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0425par0495	Thank you. Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0426par0497	We want the contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0427par0498	Yes, we're waiting for the contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0425par0499	Dear friends, now...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0428par0500	I know where I'm talking. This is the Holy Council. I stand by what I'm saying here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0429par0502	Aren't you behind the contract? I don't understand.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0425par0503	Dear friends, let's not shout...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0430par0504	If this place is sacred, you will present the contract to this holy place.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0425par0505	Dear friends... please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0431par0506	Mr. President, there is no such procedure.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0432par0507	We want the contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0433par0508	We want the contract.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0434par0509	Dear friends...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0435par0510	Present the contract to this great assembly, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0434par0511	Your Honor... friends... 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Now, for the sake of the execution, Minister of Family, Work and Social Services Zehra Emerald Selçuk. Here you go, Mr Selçuk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is twenty-four minutes, Minister. Mr. President, I salute you all to address the activities of 2018 by our Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services and the goals of 2019, as part of the Central Management Law Talks. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] During the time of our governments, we successfully performed a major transformation and transformation in the field of family, work and social services. Today there is a Turkey that is constantly increasing its national income, working and producing value. There's a Turkey that embraces a social state that sets an example for the world. The way we're on our way out with the vision of strong Turkey, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services allows for more integrity and more systemic political practices from the merger of common denominators, and we do not open our country to our goals in a faster and more efficient way. Mr. President, by protecting our family structure as the ministry, to strengthen our society, to ensure that our children, our women, our elderly, our disabled, our fallen relatives and veterans, to strengthen all the individuals that make our great family, to prioritize our protective and preventive services, to promote our solution-based support policies in social services, to increase participation in the workforce and employment, to ensure that our working life is dealt with with by all the more innovative approaches, with the incentives of professional development. Given the changing social structures of our time, we all know how important the role of the family as a protector and guide is. Because by keeping our family values alive, we can transfer our faith, culture and civilization to the next generation, secure the future of our children and young people, and build a prosperous society. In this framework, we continue to present our social services for families and all parts of society under one roof through our social services centers. In 2018, we opened 42 more centers, raising our number of social services to 316. Through our foundations, we get these services to four corners of our homeland. Our Family Social Support Programme -- ASDEP -- has started a new era of social welfare and services, not in demand, but in a supply-oriented sense of detection and resolution. So far, we've interviewed our ASDEP officials in over a million and a half million homes. By increasing our number of social centers and our ASDEP personnel, we will increase our services and increase the number of households visited by our owners in 2019. In many parts of our country, particularly the Southeast Anatolian and Eastern Anatolian regions, we have opened our family support centers (ADEM) to support our women's psychosocial, professional and personal development. In the same way, we have launched 24 social support centres, particularly in areas where our Roma citizens live more intensively. As part of the SIROMA Project, we've trained over 4,000 public officials to socialize. We continue our achievements in SIROMA, in harmony with our ministry's institutional capacity and Roman Strategy Document. Dear lawmakers, one of the important work we're doing for strengthening the family is education and awareness. In order to encourage our young ones to settle down, strengthen their sense of responsibility, we started pre-wedding education and family education programs. So far, we've given 934,000 young people pre-married education and 1.3 million of our citizens a family education. We also continue to offer counseling in order to maintain family integrity and reduce divorces. In 2019, we will expand our family education and counselling services. We also increased the amount of government contributions to the housing account and dowry accounts that we started for our newlywed youths. We also continue a number of scientific research into Turkey's family structure, Turkey's university's youth profile research, Turkey's adolescent profile research, to create healthy policies for the family, to protect family structure against threats, to take precautions. In 2019, we will also organize the Family Fair in the cooperation of all the shareholders in order to strengthen the family and eliminate the family's weaknesses. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers are also dependent on the family and therefore the society. We've opened up 15 social harmonies to ensure that drug addicts adapt to society after treatment and rehabilitation and prevent them from starting drugs again. We continue to make this struggle more active, and we continue to promote it with my social borough managers in Greeny cooperation. Our ministry also provides psychosocial support services for immigration, terrorism, natural disaster, and the removal of traumas to the family and society as a result of an emergency, and so far we have provided psychosocial support to 760,000 people. Mr. President, good lawmakers, the guarantee of our future, the best preparation for our children's lives, the care of their healthy development is our top priority. We put family-oriented services first before taking children into institutional care, allowing our children to stay close to their families. Today, with the Social and Economic Support Programme, we support 121,000 of our children with their own families. In 2019, I would also like to express that we will launch the Children's Support, Development and Education Programme (CODEP) for our children under state protection. In order for our children to grow up in a warm home, we adopted over 23,000 children and took advantage of our foster models. Our children, who cannot be cared for in the family, are being taken into institutional care. We also offer services to our 1.557 children who need rehabilitation. Dear lawmakers, as part of the National Programme for Fighting Children's Work, which is the basis of our Ministry's active struggle for child labor, we say no to child labor. The year 2018, as you know, was declared the Year of Anti-Child Work. On November 20, 2018, the 19th National Children's Forum, proposed by the declaration of the National Children's Forum, we will continue the fight against child labor under the protection of Mr. Emine Erdogan Ma'am, through the ambassadors of our 81 provinces. We've got 130 mobile teams working on the street for our kids. We interfered with our 11,760 children in field studies. In order to protect our children from the negative effects of their digital and social media environment, we have reached 44,000 children and 13,000 families by launching the Children's Growth campaign. In addition, our Ministry's Social Media Work Group is involved in preventive studies by identifying risks that could affect our children in social media and digital environments. We also support the participation of our government-protected children in their work life, and so far we've employed over 45,000 of our young people in public institutions. I'd also like to give you the good news that we'll have 3,274 more of our young ones in this month. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, we are deeply concerned about the rise of the social status of our women, the subject of our civilization, of our family structure, because we know that only if the woman is strong, the family and the community are strong. With that understanding, we have contributed to the education of our girls with conditional cash transfers, the construction and awareness of the girls' dorms. We have raised the rate of readers to 94.1 per cent in women who are 79.9% with the "Go Girls' School" campaign conducted under the protection of the Honorable Mistress Emine Erdogan. Again, we know that our women are more involved in decision-making mechanisms as their education levels grow, and they have a say in our country's future. The most beautiful reflection of this is here in this Veterans Assembly, which raised the rate of women to 17.45 per cent in 2018, with 4.4 per cent in 2002. In the wake of increasing social awareness, the response of our incentive policies, we have also made significant distances in women's participation in the labor force and employment. Today, we have 34.9% of the women's labor force and 29.7% of the women's employment rate. In the last ten years, we have reached 9.1 million by increasing our female employment by 3.4 million. We care about strengthening women's co-ops to support our women's participation in their working life. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Agriculture and Commerce have implemented the Co-operation Protocol for Enhancing Women's Cooperatives. While our women are involved in working life, we provide many facilitators such as maternity aid, maternity leave arrangements, child support, insurance benefits, part-time work opportunities, so that they do not have to worry about neglecting their children and their families. And we are successfully continuing the application of half-work grants. Here's the Mother Project, and we're channeling our women to vocational education courses and vocational training programs guaranteed for employment. We also care that our women have their own business as entrepreneurs as well as employment at any workplace. Our women make up half of the entrepreneurial training we've ever given through ISKUR. In 2019, we aim to reach out to more of our female entrepreneurs by implementing the project for e-commerce support of women's enterprises. Dear lawmakers, violence is one of the most important obstacles to her participation in social life. We view violence as a crime of humanity by the testimony of our esteemed President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, no matter who it is applied to, and we continue our struggle at the highest level with the principle of zero tolerance. With that understanding, we have implemented legal, social and economic measures aimed at fighting violence and strengthened legal infrastructure. As part of the fight against violence against the woman, we have trained 71,000 police officers, 65,000 medical staff, 48 thousand religious officials. We've also reached 32,000 of our public staff this year. As part of our collaboration with the Ministry of National Defence in September, we gave seminars on the fight against domestic and female violence to 45,000 people who served at the price. Dear lawmakers, we diversify our service units to prevent women's victims, improve our quality and standards with new practices. As part of protective, preventive services, we have served 344,000 citizens through violent prevention and monitoring centres in 79 counties. Today, with local governments, NGOs, and other public institutions, we have 144 women's guesthouses, which are boarding institutional services units in the fight against women. We've completed data integration between our Ministry and the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior to develop interagency cooperation and policies in the fight against violence. We will continue to act together in full solidarity in the fight against violence, spreading studies of education and awareness. Mr. President, good lawmakers, we've taken important steps to ensure that disabled individuals get jobs from education to equal opportunities in every aspect of life. For our disabled citizens, we see accessibility as the most basic human right, and we continue to improve their physical conditions to ensure their participation in social life. As the ministry, we have made many public buildings accessible under accessibility support projects. In the last eight years, we've completed the training of 10,000 personnel in our responsibilities. Each individual can participate in a working life. With understanding, we take special interest in the professional development and employment of disabled brothers and sisters. In the last 16 years, some 42,000 disabled brothers and sisters have taken advantage of our vocational training courses, while 382,000 disabled citizens have been employed. In 2002, 5,777 disabled officers were employed in public institutions, while today we increased that figure by up to 10 times to 55,000. And on December 24th, I hope to give you the good news that 2,500 disabled brothers and sisters will be able to make an appointment. Participate in the business on the basis of the practice model of the assisted employment method, the business coaching system. With the project, we support sustainable employment of disabled individuals. Dear lawmakers, we continue to offer boarding and day care models at our ministry's headquarters and private care centres that we have authorized. In this regard, we provide a boarding care service for 23,000 disabled individuals at our 317 day care center. We see the improvement of living conditions, the ease of access to health care, the increased awareness of active aging, extending life expectancy both in the world and in our country. The average life expectancy expected in our country is 70 years in 2000, and now an average of 78. Today, 8.7 percent of the world's population is over 65 years old. In our country, the elderly population increased by 7.5% in 2002 to 8.7 per cent in 2018. It is estimated to reach more than 10 per cent in 2023 and 16.3 per cent in 2040 and 22.6 per cent in 2060. So as a country, as our President stressed, we must increase birth rates and prevent our population from aging. At the same time, we need to develop innovative social policies and service policies so that our elderly citizens can live a healthier and happier life. It was declared the Year of the Age of 2019 to promote intergenerational solidarity and social sensitivity to our elders. We'll also announce our vision of old age at the time when we'll be under the protection of our President. We also serve our elders at a total of 396 nursing homes, elderly care and rehabilitation centres, which are owned by 250 of other institutions and institutions. We also aim to reach all the elderly who are over 65 years of age, who are in their home environments, who are making their lives easier with home care and social services. We've always been and continue to be with the pensioners we owe these days, who work and produce and value our country. Our government has implemented many social and economic supports, including pension bonuses, holiday bonuses and promotions, offering serious financial contributions to retired citizens. And as a government, we are always with our families and veterans, who have sacrificed their lives for the integrity of our country and the independence of our nation. Because we view our fallen relatives, veterans, and veterans as our own family, strengthen our ties with our visits and gatherings, and continue to cherish the saintly memory of our martyrs everywhere. As you know, we've increased the employment rights of our fallen relatives to 2, and we've given our veterans employment rights. So far, our ministry has employed 24,144 people near the martyr family, veterans and veterans. We also continue to provide social and economic support in many areas, including education support, interest-free housing loans, free travel rights, STV exemption. On this occasion, we thank our beloved martyrs once again with mercy, with gratitude, with thanks to our heroic veterans. Dear lawmakers, let the people live so that the state can live. We maintain a social state that will set an example for the world by providing social services, social benefits, and social security to benefit all segments of society. In the last 16 years, we've made a major transformation in the field of social justice and fighting poverty by transferring the resources we've achieved through economic growth to our citizens. According to Turkey's World Bank study, it has been the country that has reduced poverty rates in the world most, according to its sustainable Development Goals. Of course, we've achieved this success through human-oriented social policies that ended the relief lines over the last 16 years. During this period, we gave our citizens about 283 billion dollars in social aid. As part of the First 100 Day Performance Programme, we have upgraded the number of social aid programmes that we have implemented as of November 12th, with multiple birth benefits and electrical support programmes for our patients who are on the basis of the device. (EC PARTY and Commission rows) Again, by strengthening the social welfare and employment relationship at this time, we have enabled 223,000 of our working citizens to be forwarded to İSKUR in 2018 and to be encouraged by their employment. In 2019, we will continue to pay employer's insurance premiums for those employed while taking advantage of regular social benefits. Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers joined the labour force in 2007, while in 2018 the figure reached 33 million. When we look at the level of participation in the labour force, we see that it has risen from 44.3 per cent to 54.3 per cent. Thus, among the OECD countries, we have become the country that increases the level of participation in the labour force. In the last 16 years, we've raised employment from 20.2 million to 29.3 million. Members of lawmakers, the guarantee of our future continues to support our young people on their career choice and career journey, and we take special care of their employment. In 2018, we allowed the state to pay their premiums for the first time that young people between 18 and 29 years of age entered the area of BUG-KUR for the first time. With our First Step Project, we'll make sure that our young people in the business training program stay in employment for up to two years. We also organise vocational skills training programmes and improve public-private sector co-operation protocols. We also speed up our young people's transition from education to business. We provide salary support for students who are engaged in vocational training in businesses with apprentices and candidates, and continue to study and complete education, and strengthen the relationship between education and work. We extended our support until the end of 2021. I'd also like to give our young people the good news that we're going to start implementing the Social Work Programme, which we've prepared to help our college students meet their work life, earn study discipline and improve their social projection skills by the summer of 2019. Dear lawmakers, during the time of our governments, we expanded the scope of labour market policies, increasing the quality and quantity of the services we provide. In 2002, we increased the number of positions in the private sector, with only 24,000 people, to 1,100,000 people, with a historic record in 2018. It is necessary for us to increase the quality of our workforce in order to sustain employment, to reach the professional equipment required by the age. In this sense, we are conducting labour market research through ISKUR to identify the labor market needs of our employers and the qualities they seek in this labour force. According to the results of these studies, we organise vocational training courses for the development of our workforce, present and tomorrow's conditions. So far, over 3 million people have benefited from our courses and programs.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0436par0604	The pensioners never spoke of the subcontractor, so let him tell us for a while. In 2019, we also allow at least 500,000 people to benefit from courses and programs. Through our passive employment programmes, we support those who have lost their jobs, our employers and workers affected by conjunctural events, employees who will be paid for various reasons from employers who are unable to pay. The contractors are watching you on TV and texting you. The victims of December 4th, these drivers in the public...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0437par0607	The question didn't begin, Mr. Gürer. As we took a reformed step in the year 2018, we recruited our sub-employees. The minimum wage rose from 184 liras in 2002 to $1,603 in 2018, up to 102.6% in real terms in the last 16 years, 770 per cent nominally.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0436par0609	Let the Minister explain the questions of our people. THE FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL RESIDENTS ZEHRA ZEHRA ZEHRA ZEMURMUT SELCUT (Secondly) (We began this year on December 6th) 2019 -- and the minimum wage assessment commission will contribute positively to our work peace.)
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0438par0611	People of YIT are asking, the people of YIT. We conduct it by consultation with social parties to determine the conditions of our country, the minimum wage in accordance with the demands of our employees and employers. Mr. President, we're targeting a sustainable and accessible social security system. When we look at the cost of social security's revenues, the rise of that rate from 71.5% in 2002 to 93.6% today shows that we have met on a positive train in line with this goal. Another important indicator for us is the increases in our insured numbers. In 2009, the total number of active insurance holders rose to 15 million in 2009, to 22.5 million in 2018, while our total number of passive-insuranceds rose to 8.5 million in the file in 2009, to 11 million in 2018. In order to increase the reachability of our social security services, we also transfer our services to the e-government platform and bring them to our citizens' feet. In the year 2018, we carry out 128 of our services through the e-government.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0439par0616	Mr. Secretary, what about the minimum wage? Seventeen seconds left, tell us all about it. In addition, within the framework of our second 100-day Action Plan in 2019, we extend the easy-service electronic application to include the easy employer's practice, including the building and the business inn staff. We'll also move the military and birth debt to the E-Development. Congressmans, we have the opportunity to restructure the insurance premium debt.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0440par0620	Another half hour, and we'll only get minimum wage, Mr. President. Let's give him another half hour, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0441par0621	Let's complete it, Mr. Secretary. We also brought insurance premiums and tax incentives, primarily in manufacturing and IT sectors, with the new generation incentives we started this year. Dear lawmakers, our social security reform, led by our President, is considered one of the best practices in the world. The implementation of health assurances for all will continue, as it has been so far, followed by many countries. We're the only country that's got all of its citizens under general health insurance umbrellas and offers first-class health care to everyone. We continue to perform many services in the field of health, allowing our citizens to have equal access to health care. We estimate that our total health expenditure for 2018 will be at approximately 92 billion dollars. Mr. President, the valued lawmakers have brought important innovations in the field of occupational health and safety, in line with international norms, with the Law on Health and Safety, containment and preventive perspective. We always come up with sectoral solutions in the field of occupational health and safety, which we prioritize, to work accidents and to prevent occupational illness. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Minister, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0442par0628	Another half hour...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0443par0629	Come to minimum wage, Mr. Secretary, minimum wage.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0442par0630	Are we coming to minimum wage, Mr. Secretary, what about the minimum wage? Mr. President, I would like to point out here that in all of our ministry's activities, we care about the cooperation of public institutions and institutions, universities, business, civil society institutions, confederations and unions with local governments. Let's skip the stories, let's get to the facts, Mr. Secretary. I wish our budget of 2019 was good for our country, our country, our nation and our nation.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0444par0634	Tell me about the subcontracts, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0442par0635	What did the subcontractors do, Mr. Secretary? A lot of them are out of work, looking for the subcontractor. I thank you, our esteemed deputies, especially members of the Plan and Budget Commission, who have been working hard during the meeting of the budget bill. I give thanks and thanks to our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who, with his vision of the services we offer as governments, directs us with will and determination, and salutes our Veteran Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0445par0638	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0446par0639	EYT, 3,600 additional indicators...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0442par0640	Stories, fairy tales, fairy tales... we've heard fairy tales, we haven't come to the truth, Mr. President, we can't. The facts of Turkey are different, the facts of the Minister are different.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0447par0641	▪ Remove the work part.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0448par0642	Guys, this conversation is over, okay, let's stop gossiping, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0442par0643	I guess we'd be at minimum wage in half an hour.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0447par0644	One sentence didn't come out of his mouth to the workers' dick.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0448par0645	Mr. Gürer, there's no question-answer yet, the next question-answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0449par0646	Mr. Secretary, that's not very nice.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0448par0647	Guys, this was a presentation for the execution.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0450par0648	No minimum wage, no pensioners, no pensioners, no workers.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0448par0649	In the name of the execution now, Minister of Interior Süleyman Soylu is in charge. Here you are, Your Royal Highness. [[Applause from the AK PARTY and MHP rows]] Your time is 23 minutes, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0654	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, I present to you the 2019 budget presentation of the Ministry of the Interior, with respect and respect to your grand delegation. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] To those who left us a trust in Malazzirt, to those who held that trust in Çanakkale, to those who gave us a Salvation War by dreaming of us; to those who said that this square, with the red, green and red-green stripe of the Islamic Medal, to all their owners; to those who said, "This is our land; to those who protect Kato. To those who keep the Lamb, and to those who keep the Pülmur, and to those who keep the Fiveparmakkale Mountains; to those who claim the uniform; to those who hope for a defeat in Cyprus, Korea, on the night of July 15th; to those who say, "This is our land, this is our land; to those who protect the land, and to those who give the plague of the land; to our nation, and to those who hold our lives; to those who hold our lives; and to those who hold our souls; to those who hold our lives before us; to our great martyrs and to our souls; to those who hold our souls; to our souls; to those who hold the earth; to those who hold the earth. (AK PARTI, MHP and GOOD PARTI) And to all my friends who have held this trust today, to all our fallen families, to our veterans, to our police, to our security guards, to our soldiers, to our hero Mehmet-chik, to this day, to this day, to all our friends, to this day, to the present day, to the present day, to the present day, to the present day, to the present day, to the present day, to the present day, to all of you, to all of you, to the present, to the end of my thanks and to all of you, to God, to all of you, to all of you, to my friends, to the great struggle to bring down the terrorist in the cave. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] Mr. President, at the beginning of the 21st century, history put a photograph in front of us, and we all pictured the 21st century well together, with many improvements showing us good signs about the 21st century. But what we've come to is that, unfortunately, he's put in front of us a photograph of both Western civilization and perhaps even Eastern civilization that we never expected, and the picture that he put in front of us in the 21st century has become even more evident. We're not only witnessing our dreams, we're all witnessing things that are out of the ordinary course of life. In my speech on the commission, when you're doing this sort of evaluation, some of our friends say you're doing negative evaluations. My assessments were: From the beginning of the 21st century, the number of people displaced increased from 21.1 million to 71.4 million. The number of drug-related deaths increased from 118 to 318 thousand. The number of victims of terrorism increased from 5,000 to 25.673. This is a picture of the world. It's depressing to my assessment. While we were making some assessments of Western civilization and Europe, our friends may not have liked it when they presented some predictions, but today we see a fluctuation in France, on the one hand in Hungary, on the other in England -- new beginnings -- and on the other hand in the Netherlands, and in other countries -- that we're talking about, in fact, the Western civilization's own pattern. It's very clear that ten years ago, the European Union's public debt totalled 57.4% of its GDP; now 81.7. It's very simple, on the one hand, it's 64 percent in France, and it's 98 percent now. However, I'd like to say the number of Turkey, one part of my speech is that we need to stand stronger than the number of Turkeys that are coming. Seventy-two percent in 2002, 39 percent ten years ago, 29 percent now. As they go from 57 to 81, there is now a picture of Turkey from 72 to 29 levels. They also objected to the number of global refugees I gave them, but I didn't say that they could leave their homes, their homes, their land... which one of us could leave our own land? Which one of us can go from our homeland to another place? Which one of us can forget the house we were born in, which one of us was born in, the street we grew up in, which one of us could forget the friends we grew up with? Between 2014 and 2018, 10,771 people died in the Mediterranean, in the Aegean, some were three months old, some were six months old, some were 20 years old, some were 60 years old, and 70 years old. Today there is a government crisis in Belgium. On Monday in Morocco, we signed the Global Migration Covenant. I have to say here, all the elements of the Global Migration Covenant, I want you to know that Turkey's proposals and the philosophy that Turkey has established. (AK PARTY APPLAUSE) All articles of the Global Migration Covenant. When the Belgian Prime Minister signed those articles, his government fell for signing only those items. Britain is trying to get out of the European Union, and the decision was taken at 52 per cent, almost at a rate we can call it "fiffy-fiffy," and the Prime Minister has voted within the party, which is over 200 to 117, which means almost a third of the party was more than one-third against him. In Germany, Merkel's government was difficult to establish. The German Home Secretary is resigning because of the immigration issue, the government is falling apart. The British Home Secretary left due to the immigration issue, had to resign. All of these were involved in many countries in Europe. Anti-discrimination is one of the basic principles of the European Union, but according to the European Parliament Report of March 2018, the discrimination facing two thirds of Europe is first with 64 per cent of ethnic discrimination. And in Europe, racism and alien hostility are radicalizing through migration. There used to be only threats of war, but today there are narcotics, cyberterrorism, and on the other hand, subtitles like this. Someone's trying to hypnotize the world with science and technology and, on the other hand, lead the world through conflict. Notice that Europe is trying to panic its well-being in fear of losing its well-being and create a conflict with the values of civilization that it actually stands for, trying to declassify East (East) through destruction, migration, and poverty. They just want to keep the Eastern man in a state of panic, and they support everything that feeds the conflict, drugs, discrimination, terrorism, irregular migration as much as they can. They're trying to make Geneva and Astana fight each other. In our country, there are mothers who had to leave one of their two children's hands and leave them to die. There are three math professors in this country who have lost their children, their writing hand, some internal organs due to radiation. When I was a wealthy businessman, yes, there were some of the richest people in Syria, not too long ago, who needed a meal with our country, our nation, our government. And they just ran away in a panic. They fled their own government, armed terrorist groups they didn't know who they were, and their modern weapons donated by our ally, the United States. This is exactly the photograph that the 21st century showed us. This photo, for example, may not be of much interest to Luxembourg, at the level of $100,000 per person's income. I've already told the German Home Secretary, and I've already told the British Home Secretary, who are you on the border with? - And I said one more thing-- if you love your God, what's bothering you in our country? Give me a single example. But there's a lot of things that bother us in your country: there's the DHKP-C, there's the PKK, there's everything. And I want to say that as far as the population of Luxembourg is concerned, there's the population of our law enforcement forces in our Ministry of Interior. Why did I give you this? I've just given you an example of a mother who lost her child on the way to immigration, these mothers in our camps, but they also have mothers who have lost their children because of the PKK, who have been in this country for 40 years. We want you to know that this is not our work. I want to tell you about the game. At the moment, Deyr al-Zor has a deal with DEASH and the PID and PKK on oil transport, where the United States is secretly monitoring and trying to expect its share from here, which is very clear. Without seeing this painting, we can neither analyze Turkey nor look at the issues ahead. All the philosophy, all the policies that our government has established today, all the steps that we've taken, all the steps that we've taken, this beautiful country, this beautiful country, this country, the AK PARTI, our President and our friends, has put up a fight for the life of our friends, and the Cumhur Alliance has supported it in a life-threatening way in this matter: someone's trying to turn this country over, but we didn't let them play this game. (AK PARTI and MHP rows) Look, in the north of Iraq, we formed the game of history with Iran, Iraq, right away, against those who came to the brink of creating a new state with a so-called referendum and somehow provoked it and supported it. Let me make this very clear: no one can play against us in this geography, whether it's Germany or the United States. (EC PARTY AND MHP APPLAUSE) It's this clear and clear.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0452par0663	I thought you weren't a Kurdish enemy, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0664	Despite all these security costs, Turkey has completed its political stability, economic stability and security stability, under the pressure of migration and terrorism, and, see, from 2014, it has completed six elections with great democratic maturity and serious participation, without any security weaknesses or negativeness. This painting, no matter where you look, is a triumph of our beloved nation, of our history of democracy and our governments. Someone could make Turkey look like an insecure country photo, without thinking about the damage it would do to undermine power politically, with political expectations, jealousy, power. There are people who have suggested that Turkey should not be visited as a tourist or not be invested, that there is no safety of life here, and that there is no value to them at all. Nobody's sorry, we don't look at words; we look at outputs; what are the numbers today, we look at them. See, the number of foreign tourists arriving in Turkey today -- as of December 13th -- will only increase the number of foreign tourists 38 million 282. Thank God. We've got Anthalians among us. Today, we will see over 13 million in Antalya in 2018. We're breaking history's records. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] And hopefully, as our Minister of Tourism said, our entire number of tourists will exceed 46 million by the end of the year. At the same time, not only from the world, but from Diyarbakır, where 122,000 tourists arrived in 2016, today, here it is, at the peaceful point of Turkey, 500,000 tourists have arrived in the last 20 months.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0453par0669	It's your success when it comes, and it's our fault when it doesn't come!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0670	Mardin has also received 3 million tourists, and they are unable to find a single empty room. Last year in Turkey, women's murders were 353, not only there, but as of December 1st this year -- they're a lot of talk -- they've been 245 and 22 percent less.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0454par0672	Not even a woman should die, Mr. Secretary!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0673	In the murders of women who have fallen into a million populations...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0454par0674	Not a woman in this country should die anymore!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0675	...Turkey between 26 countries...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0454par0676	Not even a woman should die!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0677	If you'll just listen to me...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0454par0678	You raised it!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0455par0679	It's grown in your time!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0680	I don't speak by heart, I talk by number.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0455par0681	That's what the numbers say.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0456par0682	Women aren't just numbers, Mr. Secretary! Even a woman is precious!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0683	...is in the 19th place with a 3.8 rate.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0456par0685	You can't tell women by numbers!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0457par0686	Women's murders have increased during your time, increasing rapidly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0451par0687	Britain and Holland 3,9; France 4,1; Germany 5.1. I'll tell you again: 3.8 Turkey...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0456par0688	You can't tell women by numbers!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0457par0689	Women's murders have increased and increased in your time, increasing rapidly.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0458par0690	Let's not interfere, fellas.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0691	...Germany 5,1; Switzerland 5,3, they're much worse off than we are.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0460par0692	Oh, that's nice! Let's race the bad guys, oh good!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0461par0693	Women's murders have increased in your time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0694	But we're fighting it together. I think it's a safety printout. In the last two years, complaints of police abuse have decreased by 90 percent. There are other exits.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0462par0696	Tell me when you're giving 3600 to the police. When do you give 3600 ▪ to the police?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0463par0697	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0698	Turkey also made serious progress in the area of participating democracy during the EC PARTY rule.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0464par0699	Mr. Liberty, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0700	Between 2004 and 18 years, the number of members of NGOs...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0465par0701	So let's ask him.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0464par0702	But I didn't promise you anything! What happens when all friends talk? Please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0703	Ma'am...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0465par0704	Here you go, sir. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0464par0705	Mr. Secretary, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0459par0706	Ma'am, I'm not laughing. Your friends know me well. I mean, if you're gonna come in here and talk to me like that, they'll know I'm the master of those conversations. Please let me tell you about this matter.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0465par0708	We'll do it too, God willing! Don't worry, we'll be fine, don't worry.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0466par0709	Do you have that kind of language?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0467par0710	Guys, what do we do? Anyone who says they want to hear what they don't want to hear. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0468par0711	In Turkey...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0467par0713	Guys, there's a preacher on the stand. Don't talk about your position.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0469par0715	Let's hear it! Let's hear it for the women when they're dying, well done!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0470par0716	You applaud the death of women.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0469par0717	Give it up for the women's death!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0470par0718	80 women were killed in 2008, 130 women in 2009, 180 women in 2010 and 409 women in 2017. Women's murders are growing rapidly during your time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0471par0719	One of the most fundamental issues is that Turkey has also made serious progress in the area of participating democracy during the EC PARTY rule. The number of members of NGOs has increased from 7,100,000 to 11.1 million from 2004-2018 to 63.8 per cent, and has increased to 114.583.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0472par0720	You shut down all the associations, you shut down all the associations!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0471par0721	Another thing: Turkey's participation in legal demonstrations -- that's what our colleagues in the opposition are most interested in -- has been raised, especially in the State of Emergency. Participation in social events was 48.1 million in twenty-three months prior to the State of Emergency, with an increase of 46.32 in twenty-three months following the State of Emergency, 70.5 million.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0473par0722	They're your rallies, your rallies.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0471par0723	I'm saying it along with their fall. However, the number of incidents that have been interfered -- I'll tell you this -- dropped to 3 percent before the State of Emergency and after the State of Emergency to 1 percent.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0474par0725	Bravo! Fascism has settled. Fascism is settling, be proud.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0475par0726	People can't get out on the street! You don't put him out on the street before he's interfered.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0471par0727	Again, one important issue is city security. The theft of the house is reduced by the functionality of the guard. According to last year, the average number of daily thefts has dropped from 259, from 259, to 203. There's an important...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0476par0728	Because thieves are somewhere else.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0471par0729	I'll tell you who the thief is and you can sit there!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0476par0731	Of course, it's your duty, that's your duty! You'll be damned if you don't tell me! That's your job, tell me where the thieves are from!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0477par0732	Your duty, your duty! Tell me who the thief is!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0478par0733	Mr. Emir, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0479par0734	Ankara has been reduced from 30 to 11 in Ankara, from 78 to 55 in İstanbul, from 19 to 9 in İzmir. Yes, we did 53 peace practices in the year 2018 and 37,736 people wanted for various crimes have been arrested, 40,000 kilos of drugs have been seized and many criminal elements have been seized. But one important thing is that from 38 percent to 45 percent of the lighting rates for the security of our nation to live in a more peaceful way...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0480par0736	Come to the budget, to the budget!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0479par0738	In the fight against organized crime only in 2018 -- and I say this with great pride -- 275 criminal groups were destroyed, and five of them were nationally based. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I also have one more point to state: In 2016, the illegal smoking rate directed by PKK terror organization in Turkey was 211% in the total market share, 12.8% in 2017; now 6.4% in Turkey. So it's a healthy environment in Turkey that reduces illegal smoking rates from 21 per cent, 22 per cent to 6.4 per cent, which reduces the market share of the PKK and also raises a healthy environment in Turkey. With his betrayal, we were subjected to a serious digital attack. We did a great job there, too. Turkey's total capacity was to study 45,000 digital data in one year; thank God, we also put forward an effort today to study 750 thousand digital data and strengthen the hands of our courts in this regard. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I just gave you the European figures on drug-related deaths.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0481par0744	You brought him into the cosmic room!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0482par0746	Guys... Mr. Secretary, this is the first time I've seen people yell at numbers. Oh, please, really... why are you jumping up and down? Listen, there's a preacher on the stand, we promised.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0483par0749	Now I'm giving you the numbers of Turkey: 920 in 2016, 941 in 2017, and 380 in December 13th -- the official number of medicines -- in 2016.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0484par0750	What about the 3,600 additional indicators?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0483par0751	With the struggle that we put forth, indeed, our state, our government, all our ministries, all our friends, the drugs with a great struggle, I hear here occasionally around the schools. See a drug dealer around the school, who doesn't quit is a nobleman and a scoundrel. Don't talk about it here for free.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0485par0753	There's a lot of them, a lot of them. Come on, I'll show you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0483par0754	Twenty-four hours we're fighting to get our kids out of this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0485par0755	There are many of them, Mr. Secretary; come, look, and see.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0486par0756	Bonzai set a record, a record.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0483par0757	Again, now 17.5 tons of heroin. Another thing we do is traffic.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0487par0759	Will you give your officers 3,600 additional indicators, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0483par0760	Yeah, after the first six months with our audits... let me tell you, we went to the first six months minus because there were a lot of bus accidents. Now we've reduced the number of fatal accidents, fatal accidents, and injury accidents by 7.5 percent, and the number of fatalities associated with traffic accidents by 5.7%. Yes, the traffic issue is a difficult matter, but with our measures, our policies, my country will no longer be a country where 7,400 people die every year. This is the result of our government, our friends here. Thank you to our High Council. You know, thanks to your law on traffic, future generations will always remember you as self-responsive, because you've come up with a very important measure. Mr. President, I've tried to keep up my end of the line, but I'm running out of time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0488par0762	Speak, Mr. Secretary, speak.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0489par0763	Talk, talk.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0490par0764	Will you give me 3,600 additional indicators, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0491par0765	If our friends want to hear it, we can extend it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0492par0767	Let him speak, let him speak.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0493par0768	Let him talk, don't let him keep it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0494par0769	Let him speak, but let him answer, let him answer questions.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0495par0770	Mr. Emir, are you suggesting we extend it?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0494par0771	Let him talk, but he won't talk!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0496par0772	We've been listening to your idle talk all evening! Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0773	Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I have a lot on my plate, but I'd like to give you an example...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0498par0774	Let's sum it up in a few minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0775	I want to tell you where our society, where our nation has come, how we should actually evolve into the right process. Fifteen days before that, I went to Pain. My friends know that we are your brothers who go to Pain a lot, who have been there many times. When I went to Pain three years ago, I swear to God, there was no pain in the mountains of garbage, and when I went back, I had to throw away this tweet: I could not grieve if I died, but I saw Pain. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] I'm the son of this country. I'm going to talk about this Pain, and I'm going to finish it. I went down to the pain. At the airport, our governor said...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0499par0780	Wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0500par0781	Mr. Secretary, if he's going to talk about the budget, extend the deadline.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0782	Mr. President, I asked for special permission for the pain if... thank you, I will.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0499par0783	Sure, go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0501par0784	Have you ever been to the East White Sea, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0785	We found a beautiful geothermal field across the street. Now we're building a bridge there, and you'll soon see the hotels there. We're on our way. The right side of the road is greenened, and all the buildings on the left side are clean, and that is how we enter the Pain.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0502par0786	The pain is all over the...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0788	Don't worry, this country is what I'm going to tell you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0503par0789	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0790	And then...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0503par0792	Guys...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0793	...The Governor took me somewhere, we went into a gym. He had four made out of the gym. 150 women work at that gym. He said there are four of these gyms. I took Painful textiles from Bursa, İstanbul, and brought them, and provided employment for 600 women here. (APPLAUSE APPLAUSE) Not enough, but he took them from there to another place, and he built a textile city. He set up a textile centre and textile cities, which would be completed in June 2019 square feet, which would be 5500 square feet, 5,500 square meters, and a total of 52,000 square meters, which would be completed in June, and would be worked by 6,500 painful women by the end of June 2019, if I could see it, I wouldn't believe it. Everybody's in line. A painting that the textileist in one of those gyms asked me to take a seat here. It's not over. Those who know pain know pain. When we get to the pain...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0795	Will you come to the budget, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0796	This is the service of our Ministry.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0797	Budget, budget, what about the budget? What about the budget? What about the 3,600 additional indicators?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0798	After 5:00 p.m., 15-year-olds who couldn't get out of the streets after 6:00 p.m. because of the PKK terrorist organization are walking in peace and security one night today.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0800	Our agency is unclaimed, unclaimed!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0505par0801	Dear Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0802	It's our Ministry's service.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0803	What happened, 3600, what happened?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0804	It's not enough. It's just that the kids they're trying to hand him a gun against...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0806	You didn't clear the gap between veterans, Mr. Secretary, you say fighting terrorism.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0506par0807	Mr. Liberty, did I promise you too?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0808	You're a mother, listen to this.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0504par0809	Have you finished the distinction between veterans?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0810	Look, those kids over there...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0812	Mr. Secretary, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0813	Mr. President, I'm gonna finish this in a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0814	Mr. Secretary, all right, just one minute... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0497par0816	Look, they gave 47,150 kids -- I've never seen anything like this -- a year of coding training -- 47,150 -- and they gave us a special presentation of this. Some of them built a smart house, some of them robotics, some of them computerized their studies, some of them in the world, maybe even finger bites. To make my children there an engineer, to make my children there a doctor, to make my children there a nurse, to take him from the bottom of his mother's knee, to make sure that he doesn't present him to those dirty PKK people, to make an appetizers, it's your business, it's your business, it's our business, it's our business, we'll bring together an understanding that's going on. [[AK PARTY, MHP and GOOD PARTY]] I hereby ask that this budget bring peace to our country's tomorrows, and salute you all with respect and respect.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0820	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0508par0822	3600 is gone again.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0509par0823	We hit the PKK, the CHP is making noise.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0824	Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0508par0825	What is it, 3600?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0826	Let's get this yelling over with.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0510par0827	CHP will exchange places with HDP.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0507par0828	Guys, let it out, scream, we'll continue when it's over. [[Noises]] Friends, Mr. Altay has a request for a word. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0511par0834	Mr. President, thank you. I'm withdrawing my request to the Minister of Health. I'm shooting for this: I have the Court's Community Hospitals Association Control Report, I have the 2017 audit report, and unfortunately the Court, which is employed on behalf of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, has just asked for these contracts that we requested, and has not given them. I don't know what right he didn't give, and that's your responsibility. The failure of an executive body to give the Court the documents he wants would eliminate the existence of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; yes, yes.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0512par0836	And the Bank of Business won't give me the papers.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0511par0837	I'm also going to request that you follow this from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I just wanted to say this. And I'd like to remind Mr. Home Secretary of what I said in Congress eight years ago: that our very proud, very proud hero cop -- Mr. Secretary -- is not afraid to be a martyr, he is afraid to retire, waiting for 3,600. (CHP cheers) Their heroism is here, of course you can boast as their chief executive. But their heroism must have a reward, and it is your duty to do so. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0513par0841	That's it, we're asking a very simple question.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0514par0842	Thank you, Mr. Altay. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0515par0845	Mr. President, first, of course, after a constitutional amendment and after a amendment, what kind of communication between ministers and Parliament, according to the new system in the General Assembly, should be, we try this together. Of course, in the previous system, the ministers are also elected MPs, so, of course, communication with lawmakers is equivalent to the rights of an MP.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0516par0846	Mr. Suleyman was also chosen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0515par0847	As lawmakers, we can say the harshest words to each other, but in the new system, the ministers are the ones appointed by the elected President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0516par0848	Süleyman is a nobleman, with extras.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0515par0849	Mr. Noble, as a member of the Democratic Party tradition, he knows very well that the relationship between the appointed and the elected is the history of democracy. Since 1876, the parliaments of this tradition, the parliaments of this historic memory have been closed by the king. The British occupied, closed; coups have happened; MPs have been assassinated; MPs have been executed, but they have been appointed, they have not reported to lawmakers under the roof of parliament. Thus, I think it would suit the spirit of the system if the next ministers, like the ministers before them, prefer a way of communicating in this matter, as they did in the first day, just as the Vice President did in the first day, as the minister and other ministers did in the budget. Mr. President, I'd like to point out two more things: Mr. Secretary, when I say pain, I thought that the Court report we brought up would give an example of Pain, because it claims to be the most corrupt, because the reports are obvious.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0517par0853	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0515par0854	Look, Mr. President, I'll just tell you the numbers, the Court reports can already be examined: we're talking about a period of 13 million and 621 thousand lira -- the last year alone -- $675,430, 27 million, $25,560 lira, 2 million, 560,000 lira, concrete, different accounts, including embezzlement charges. One last thing I want to say: Mr. Minister, we'll take the pain. But now there's a candidate for mayor in Ağar, and today on TV, the mayor's candidate has made a speech. I think he's lost himself to the air there, and he's read the social demand very well, so it's a Kurdish mandatory lesson, Mr. Prosecutor Sayan said. I hope the Minister will stand behind him. Thank you, thank you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0518par0913	Dear friends, on behalf of himself now, Ankara MP Flitz Kerestecioğlu. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0519par0917	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I'd like to say good luck to your candidate for Pain. You know what the most interesting thing about this budget is, dear friends? In fact, the statistics of loan sharking, the statistics of the rise in loan sharking. You can clearly see the increase in loan-sharking in the interior ministry budget, which is not surprising in this unfair scheme that you've set up. Again, I'd like to give you some other statistics: the number of people who died in wars and conflicts between 2002 and 18 in this country -- in particular, because everyone is human -- 6,456. Between 2002-2018, 6,456 people lost their lives, and it's a really big drama, and, you know, the migration that you're talking about, 355,000 to 500,000 people have left their homes and migrated. So, between January 2013 and June 2015, how many people died in this country during the solution process that you didn't like? Only 40 people died. Yeah, it's a policy that doesn't prevent it, and the ministry gets the biggest budget, because it's enough of the word "supervice," "threatening" and "touching" for everything. More security policies are needed, more security personnel are needed. And you can see the increase here in the budget. Anyway, you understand the size of this security paranoia, step-by-step barrier in the Capitol Garden. But no one dies in this House, but no one dies here. Yes, 6,456 people who lost their lives, and I'm talking about preventing it. Here, Leyla Güven is on a hunger strike because of these deaths. And I don't want to lose Leyla Güven, like all the people we've lost, and I'm seriously worried about that. Friends, we're all responsible for these losses, especially the power, because we've come to this Parliament to build a solution, to talk, but in their name, you're welcome to call them "narcoterrorism, divorce terror, traffic terrorism, interest lobby terrorism, onion lobby terrorism." I'd really like to say, what are you thinking? This is not the solution, friends, this is not the solution, there is no solution to anything. Dear lawmakers, we also see in this budget that the social state has left its place entirely to market mechanisms and understanding of aid. Let's make it clear by numbers: in 2018, social benefits were spent $43.4 billion. That's 4 percent of the total national income. So there's a lot going on with social aid. You know, there's no such thing. So, where does it fill the void from the social state? Here, the gap in that state's shrinking is filled with religious foundations that are passed millions from the Diet and the budget. The diet budget of 2018 is 7 billion 774 million. 8 times the budget in 2004. Children who are not with Kuran are with the devil in the morning prayer sermon at Mardin. An institution that speaks at the altar is also made responsible for education with a president who can use the words of the child and the words of the devil in the same sentence. We're handing the kids over to him? [[Applause from HDP rows]] Yes, and when you really don't aim for equality between men and women, you see this inequality all the way from women's murders to discrimination at work. A young woman named Shule Chet is killed, and after five months, every period, in fact, during the actual military coup, civil coup, and civilian dictatorships, an institution that has not changed its role five months later... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I need a minute and a half.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0520par0928	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0519par0929	In the report, he ignores the court's questions and says: "It is not medically possible to determine how death happened and whether there was rape. You do business with such trials, such institutions. Over the years, thousands of women have received support from the women's organisations that you have closed down with the KHK. You don't hear Flormar's workers, you don't hear the Red Village women going up against the geothermal plant; you don't mind dragging their mothers and peace mothers on Saturdays. For thirteen years, we have been walking on Istiklal Street on the Day of International Fight Against Violence Against Women for the 25th November. And this year, we're facing police roadblocks. This is the photo from that day on, folks. This photo will stop you. These women will stop you. On March 31st, they'll stop it, and in the next future, they'll stop it. Don't doubt it. In the same way... Mr. President, I'm completing it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0521par0933	You're the last speaker. Okay, I'll give you one more minute. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0519par0935	Yes, this hand, the hand of women, will be able to free this country and bring it to justice. I believe that. Both the women of Flormar and the mayors you have taken hostage, the mayors you have taken hostage, and the Mothers of Saturday will be able to do so, as will my feminist friend Ayşe Düzkan, who was on duty as editor-in-chief one day in solidarity with Özgür Gündem daily and was sentenced to a year and a half for his great crime.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0522par0937	Tell me about your kidnapped girls. Tell me about the women who were abused, raped.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0519par0938	You know what Gloria Steinem says, fellas? Women become radical as they get older.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0522par0939	You never talk about them.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0519par0940	Women with white hair may one day quietly take over the world. Yes, be afraid of women with white hair. Teenage politicians, teenage ministers, watch your step, one day the world will change.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0522par0942	Watch your step, you two!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0523par0943	Yes, members of the law...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0944	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0523par0945	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0946	Mr. President, I have a brief request for 60.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0523par0947	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0950	Mr. President, it is not acceptable to accept testimony from those who always recommend using a clean language from this bench, to our ministers here, to our incoming ministers.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0525par0951	The minister's tongue is so clean!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0952	He is the minister of the Republic of Turkey. Relax.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0526par0953	The Minister himself has a foul mouth.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0954	Murat Bey, relax. You take it easy, Murat Bey.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0527par0955	Guys, wait a minute, this is the vice president of the group.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0526par0956	That's a minister who says, "It's ugly!"
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0524par0957	We've always waited for Parliament to use a language worthy of the weight of the Veteran Assembly, but it's always expected that we'll never be able to accept phrases, phrases, phrases that will be used in a condescending, condescending, superior manner. First of all, it's not fair to the people's bench. Like this, we never accept the use of teenage testimony from the council bench, we expect mature statements.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0527par0958	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0528par0959	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0527par0960	Mr. Kerestecioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0528par0961	For the record, I'm guessing that I've used a very kind statement about a person who's used what statements he's been cleared of. [[Applause from HDP rows]] 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0529par1018	Congressmans, this concludes the talks in the sixth round. Now we're going to question-answer. You know, we're gonna do ten minutes of questions, ten minutes of answers. When I opened the session this morning, our friends were in the system, and I have that list. We'll start with that list. Mr. Gaytancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0530par1022	Thank you, Mr. President. 1) Is Turkey self-sufficient in pharmaceutical production? What's the self-satisfactory rate? What drugs are heavily imported? 2) In public hospitals and university hospitals, nurses, midwifes and assistants are known to be short-staffed. How many assignments do you plan to make in 2019, to close this gap? 3) For years, we have told the Republican People's Party that we will give 3600 additional indicators to our police. Now I ask the Home Secretary, when will you fulfill that promise? So when are the cops going to get 3600 additional indicators? 4) There are model police vehicles on the highways and roads. Once they discover these tools, the drivers pass by those models, reducing their speed. How much did these model vehicles cost? Most of these model vehicles are broken, too. Is there any indication that these model vehicles reduce traffic accidents?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0531par1027	They're models, they're models.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0530par1028	Yeah, yeah, most of it's broken. I travel most places.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0532par1029	Mr. Tiger Liberty...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0533par1030	Mr. President, instead of me, Aydın Özer...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0532par1031	Here you go, Mr. Özer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0534par1032	Mr. President, thank you. There has been a lack of rabies vaccine in Antalya for some time. When we ask the City Health Department, they say the vaccine will come within the week. The vital importance of this matter is enormous. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health: Why is there no rabies vaccine found in Antalya? How many patients haven't been vaccinated in the process? Is there a shortage of rabies vaccines in any of our other cities? If so, what's the reason? How many cases of rabies have occurred across the country in the last year? Has anyone ever ended up dead? Why can't they make vaccines in Turkey? How many doses of rabies a year are imported? What's the cost? What's the budget for importing total vaccines in 2019? On the other hand, you know, it's winter. And those who want a flu shot say they can't find a vaccine in family medicine, right? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0535par1037	Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0536par1038	Mr. Home Secretary, Hatay has been sharing his bread, vaccin, water, road, hospital with 600,000 guests for seven years. He does the tradition without a hitch, without a hitch, with the deep tolerance of his ancestors. He does this because he looks at him as a guest of God, and he does so because peace will be restored to them, and they will return to their country. Recently, however, Hatay has been filled with Syrian citizens seeking citizenship from the Turkish Republic outside the county's population managerships. Mr. Secretary, what's with the fever work? How many Syrians have you given citizenship to in Hatay? What criteria did you use when giving citizenship? How many more Syrians will you give citizenship to? What will be the number of Syrians who will vote in the local elections in Hatay? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0537par1041	Dear Sugar...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0538par1042	Thank you, Mr. President. My question to our Minister of Health: What kind of work does the Ministry of SMA patients do? Again, can you tell me about the health market work? Also, Mr. President, in 2002, when the EC PARTY was in power, the number of intensive care beds was 869. Today, 37,498, so there is an increase of 4.315 per cent. In my constituency, Hosheli was 26, and today it was 874. And the increase here is 3.362%. The number of palatial maintenance beds was 35 ▪ in 2002, and today it was 4,500. While home care was not available in 2002, 1,200,000 people took advantage of the EC PARTY power. In my constituency, there was no palliative care in 2002; there are now 78 beds; there were 14,212 people who took advantage of the home care service; they were not present before. I'd like to thank our ministers, especially our President, who does these services.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0539par1046	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0540par1047	Thank you, Mr. President. My question will be to Mr. Health Minister. Looking at the reflections of the beautiful improvements in our health investments since 2003 in my constituency of Mersin, in 16 years, our citizens are serving in our modern hospitals, with a total capacity of 2.050 beds, especially 1,300 beds at Mersin City Hospital. The number of qualified beds in our province will be 2,800 with the completion of our 750-bed hospital-access investments -- including 600-beded State Hospital and 150-bed Anamur State Hospital. It is also served for our citizens in 110 units of oral dental hospitals. I thank our President, our health ministers, for these investments in Mersin. Minister, you said in your speech that Turkey will become a health base and that city hospitals are an opportunity for this. Can you describe your activities in health tourism and the activities of the USHASH? What's your target? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0541par1051	Mr. Kaboglu...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0542par1052	Thank you. In the 280-page budget presentation, the word "judicial" is four, four, four, four, and one time "justice" is one, and the constitution is none. Although the Constitution is the common denominator of the oath of loyalty to the Constitution, it is the only constant reference of the AK PARTI MPs. According to this, the person who suppressed the July 15 traitorous coup attempt has dominated the country in 16 years. The amendment was designed as a person project. Now it's a person and a leader fetishism for the future. Mr. Secretary, I'm asking: 1) What is part of the constitutional violations on the road to July 15th? 2) Is it true that on the evening of July 15th, the Undersecretary of MIT went to dinner with the President of Religious Affairs and the Syrian opposition instead of informing the Minister of Interior, Prime Minister and President? 3) Can Turkey be managed by one person with two centuries of institutionalization experience?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0543par1058	Mr. Yilmaz...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0544par1059	I'd like to ask our Minister of Health. The shortage of attending doctors at Düzce Ataturk State Hospital is extreme. We don't have specialists in cardiology, internality, gastroenterology and nephrology, especially when there should be 10 obstetricians. We are now ashamed to address the health problems of Düzce. Akça husband is a county that has a population of 150,000 in the summer. The state hospital was ruled to be destroyed in 2015, and three and a half years later, it still hasn't started at the state hospital. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0545par1062	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0546par1063	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Minister of Health. Mr. Secretary, why do you make medical secretary for those who get certified in two months when our medical secretary-graduate brothers are desperately looking for work, which is over 100,000? How many medical secretaries do you plan to get in 2019? Again, about 80,000 anesthesiologists are idle in our country. How much purchase do you plan to make as a ministry? One of the most important problems in the world and Turkey is obesity. Today we have 16,000 dieticians out of work. In 2019, how many dieticians do you intend to receive? Again, the number of non-assigned physical therapists is increasing rapidly. In 2019, how many physical therapists do you plan to receive? Again, why did you buy thousands of subcontractors when there were thousands of ATTs and paramedics waiting for the appointment? What number of ATTs and paramedics are planned in 2019? Will you have good news in 2019 for thousands of radiology technicians and technicians waiting for the appointment? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0547par1071	Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0548par1072	Thank you, Mr. President. At the time, Kahramanmarash, the Ministry of Family, Labor and Social Services, provided 1 billion,643 million TL. At the same time, $3361 million has been spent on 93 investments completed by the Ministry of Health in our province, as well as on 25 projects. The new modern-day service building of our City Security Directorate has been established and is being completed by 30 per cent of the physical fulfillment of the construction work. In our city of peace and brotherhood, Kahramanmarash is the result of an international conspiracy, and all the Maras have suffered a great deal of suffering, and we have hardly healed our wounds in many years. Now it saddens us that he's repainting this wound by reading gashes from someone who's dry. He condemns them, and take your hand off us, and do not deal with the heromarash. It is shameful, and it is shameful, and it is sinful.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0549par1076	Mr. Oztunç...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0550par1077	Yes, I ask Mr. Noble, Mr. Minister, you spoke of foreign policy in your speech, you spoke of Antalya's tourism, you spoke of Ağrı's economy, but you seem to have forgotten about the IA staff. What about the 3,600 additional indicators, what about the rights of equity? Do you or do you not have an assessment of your hours? Mr. Secretary, when you talk about all this, you say, "What's the matter?" Don't you think they're cutting it off? Don't I.A. cut you up anymore, and you're thinking of looking at it all in bulk? That's how your presidential process at the Right Path Party began. You want to run for president of the Justice and Development Party? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0549par1079	Mr. Özalan...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0551par1080	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Health Minister, is that in the countries where I live abroad, health care is both very expensive and very difficult. What is the number of tourists from abroad who come to our country in terms of health tourism, and do you have any special work to do? Thank you?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0552par1083	Mr. Hancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0553par1084	Thank you, Mr. President. My question, Mr. Minister of Health, is once again to your attention the problem of our young people who have not been deployed for months, even though their appointment has occurred. It's our youth's job to save lives, heal people. In the prime of their lives, these young children of ours have worked, worked, worked, crossed all obstacles, earned a position in the government, and now they've got one procedure left: security investigations. But these investigations haven't been completed in months. We have young people who have been waiting to be embezzled since May. Come, speed up this process, complete the investigations, and do not play with the hopes and futures of these young people. Will you now deliver the good news to our young ones, or will you serve the growth of despair?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0554par1087	Mr. Enginyurt.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0555par1088	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Home Secretary. He also had a saying in the Plan Budget Commission on the 3,600 additional indicators, and while reminding again, the veterans want to take advantage of the 3,600 additional indicators. Again, our fellow specialists, the gendarmes, demand that the hours they study in schools be considered service, and our fellow veterans request that they be given 45 as safe as they are when they take the Petty Officer's exam again. And Mr. Minister, when I told you about Pain, I was so moved, my eyes burst. I'll see you to the Army as soon as I can. Military women expect you to serve such beautiful textile factories, I hope. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0556par1092	Dear friends, we're getting to the answer part. Which one of our ministers is starting? Minister of Health. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0557par1095	We'll update the time, won't we, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0558par1096	There's seven minutes left, so...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0559par1097	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I'd like to answer about the vaccine. We don't have any problems with rabies vaccines, although today is a market, 70 thousand doses are being distributed throughout the country in the morning. Other than that, next year, the localization of 2019 will be handed over to us as a local vaccine for diphtheria-tetanus vaccine. In addition, localisation continues for hepatitis A, chicken pox, measles, measles, constipation, and hepatitis B. The flu vaccine was released on November 6th at 170,000 doses and at the end of November at 160,000 doses, no problem. We care about health tourism, especially health tourism. In this period, we will have closed the 2018 at an average of about 1.5 billion dollars, but in the coming year of 2023, we aim to increase it as at least five times medical tourism and raise 550,000 health tourists in 2023 and make our country a brand. You know, we've had a company called USHAS that's been in Congress for this. In a professional sense, not just the public, but our universities, private sectors, city hospitals, and public public, began to organise a structure with active offices in a country we specifically opened up our savings abroad and targeted. It's also about the Health Market... and the Health Market has started buying from the State Supplies Office at this time. Through this Health Market, the supply of important medicines and materials that we consider critical, not just public, but private sectors and universities. We created the first sample in the bionic ear. In this framework, you know, with a fluctuation in dollars, the media and politics were also on the agenda, and in particular, foreign companies had a high price demand for four companies, and it was made through a collective purchase health market after the time of the high price demand, and it was distributed to all our universities and hospitals at half the price of one top model. We want to do this in many areas, including many other important, critical, and early pacemakers. SMA is a very distorted subject. SMA is a substitute friend of ours who hasn't been given...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0560par1103	Mr. Secretary, you can't answer all of them anyway, you give them in writing, and our other ministers will answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0559par1104	I'm ending with an SMA, Mr. President. They talked about a situation that hasn't been given in years. The SMA drug was released around the world in December 2016, so it didn't come out years ago, we're talking about two years ago. Turkey started giving all Type 1 patients in July, a new drug in the world, which was released in December 2016, in the United States. For Type 2 and Type 3, clinical studies were completed in April 2018, and I stress that in particular. It ended in April for Type 2 and Type 3, so I'm talking about five or six months ago. And in this period, the pharmaceutical company didn't specifically apply for a license, because it was the only company.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0560par1107	It was SMA, and we got into something else.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0559par1108	And even when we were negotiating to make a price arrangement, we gave this drug to all our patients without waiting for the outcome of the bargain. Therefore, we have no problem with that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0560par1109	Thank you, Minister of Health.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0561par1110	Mr. Secretary, you haven't responded to the appointments?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0560par1111	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1112	Thank you. In answer to questions, I'd like to begin with the 3600 additional indicators of our police. Our Minister of National Education said that, and so did our President; police, teachers, nurses, if I'm not mistaken, the imams will be given 3600, two more four.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0563par1115	When, Mr. Secretary?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1116	As soon as possible.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0563par1117	When? A very clear question is, when do you need, how many hundred days?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1118	As soon as possible. As soon as the House can make it happen. Again, Mr. Okan asked me a question about model vehicles. They're model cars, wood, so I don't know what's gonna break.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0564par1120	The lights aren't on.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1121	Now, it doesn't cost anything, guys, and we don't have a budget for that. Look, it reduced fatal accidents by 7.5 percent, model vehicles. It's a very important... it supports this policy of ours: it supports our policy to be visible and we benefit from it. They're constantly moving our carabinieri and our police. ▪ How many Syrians have we made citizens of? Do you have a criteria? 380,000 children were born in my country. God willing, even if Congress helps us, I wish we could make these 380,000 children citizens of the Republic of Turkey as soon as they are born. Look, I'll tell you something: making these kids -- their parents may not be their father, but they're citizens of the Republic of Turkey -- is the biggest fraternity investment we can do in hundreds of years, and that's a very important thing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0565par1124	There is a possibility that the person born in Turkey with a change of law is considered a Turkish citizen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1125	I wish we could.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0565par1126	You can make the law.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1127	But, of course, it's a matter of law, it's the will of the House; I'm just speaking my heart out. Who do we do? We do teachers, engineers, doctors, judges, lawyers, senior executives, architects, academics, businessmen; we do this. So far, we've made 36,000 minors citizens of the Republic of Turkey, 36,000 children; 72,000; that's one. Two: 28,000 of them had the right to vote in the last election. If you count from adults in this election, 36,000 people have the right to vote, and there's no covert business. I mean, there's been a lot of complaints at one point, you know, when the most skilled ones go abroad, they go abroad, they live in other countries. So we took it down from the top and did a very serious study. I'd like to thank the Immigration Administration and the Population and Citizenship Administration in your presence. Again, there was a saying that there was a cult bond in Jandarma that... look, friends, zinhar is something that we have to reject. We shouldn't even be saying that around here. Something like this is absolutely, absolutely out of the question. From morning to evening... now our 11,500 gendarmes are operating in the mountains, and we're standing here. It's not fair to label them. And then, let me tell you something else, unknown. The gendarmes have intelligence clearance, but the Republic of Turkey has provided the most important coordination of its time. Gendarme Intelligence, Security Intelligence, National Intelligence and General Intelligence are working like a punch today against any threat to Turkey.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0566par1131	They've been given that authority under a court order, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1132	There's no such thing. Again, beyond that, I'd like to tell you about the paymen in the gendarmes and the Turkish Armed Forces. Look, my friends, our esteemed deputies, we may have solved a very important matter. If my speech had continued, I would have been able to explain it. We've solved a very important issue, and we've solved it with Turkish intelligence, and our police intelligence has solved it, and it's worked out for a long time, and it's seen how this bond is formed, and it's made these connections in both the Turkish Armed Forces and the Gendarmes very clear, and our decontamination process continues in the same way. I mean, we've come a long way in the fight with ▪ but that doesn't mean it's all over. I'm telling you again, if we open up, we'll be miserable, no one will be sorry. Again, we've got something here in particular about the population managers. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0567par1137	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1138	We've got about 1,170 new employees in the population. Actually, we got a 500-600 last year. At the same time, we're increasing their technical capabilities. We gave him about 30.5 million new identity cards in two years. It's a record, and the more we give it, the more demand for population management. 20 million people a year go into population management. So far, from April 2nd to today, after the three of them had gathered, we gave 2.5 million licenses; 1.2 million passports; 15.5 million IDs. So the population administrations are really run and run by our friends, who we've brought to a very, very high capacity, but they're really good modernization. I guess I'll write to the others...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0567par1140	You'll answer in writing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0562par1141	Oh, sorry. One sentence... Something was said, and this is: I believe the spokeswoman of the HDP has spoken. Well, for one thing, it's hard to deny. No matter what period it is, it's a sin to put the police and the drugs together. Two, the PKK meets with drugs, gets 1.5 billion dollars from here, and right now the whole world is standing there applauding Turkey's struggle with drugs, our police, and our gendarmes' fight against drugs. Turkey is setting records on record. And, again, 27 million debts regarding Ağar, Mr. Bilgen, if you look into it -- the debt we removed from Ağrı is accounting from our side that your very dear friend didn't pay for electricity management. Let me tell you something else: how many foreclosures does a car have? One, three, five. Every vehicle in the City of Pain had 300, 400, 450 foreclosures. 12.5 million paid off the debt left to us in Pain, or to our friends. Please, you're elected MP from that region, the roads to the playgrounds, the youth centers, the women's centers, the aesthetics... and I'll say this as a son of this country, that the difference between us -- my last sentence -- east and west -- is from that, I swear to God -- there is no difference between east and west in this country, depending on its scale. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0568par1148	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0569par1149	Can you answer about Hatay? I asked about Hatay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0568par1150	Mr. Nicemansur will give it to you in writing. Okay.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0570par1151	I said it all, I gave them all the frames, we don't have any special work to do.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0569par1152	Hatay, it's about the Syrians.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0570par1153	Oh, sorry. In Hatay, you know better...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0571par1154	Wait a minute, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Noble, okay, you'll give it to me in writing, so it's too long. Please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0570par1155	I'll say one sentence.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0571par1156	Well, one sentence...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0570par1157	I've been to Hatay, and I think you'll be happy without it - about 1,500-2. There were around 000 Afghan Uzbeki.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0572par1158	Thank you, Minister.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0570par1159	Have they lived there for 40 years? We've lived here for a long time, and we want to be citizens of this country. They said, "Thank God we've done all their research, they've come out clean -- they've become citizens of the Republic of Turkey, that's what we're doing."
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1161	Mr. Secretary, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0574par1162	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1163	Mr. Kaboglu, please, we're in the process of answering. I mean, when we think of something, we just... Here you go, Mr. Secretary. I didn't get a direct question, but I didn't...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1166	That's not very nice of you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1167	Who's he? Who's he?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1168	Me, me.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1169	Dear God, why are you shouting?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1170	You're not nice, you're not nice. Just a moment ago, you were shouting, shouting, to the great assembly. Now you can call our teacher a little nicer. You're not polite, you're not polite.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1171	You're so kind! If you look in the mirror, you'll scare people at this time of night, look at this type, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1172	Is that your answer?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1173	Look at this place. What is this?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1174	Shame, shame!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1175	Don't worry, Hodja and I have more law than you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1176	A little courtesy, a little courtesy!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1177	It's not your place to defend the teacher.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1178	It's up to me, it's up to me.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1179	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1180	A bit of kindness, a little bit of kindness.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0573par1181	I think you've had too much to drink tonight.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0575par1182	It's the kindness of Parliament.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0576par1183	Aah!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0577par1184	Mr. President, it's not happening.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0578par1185	I mean, no.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1186	Here you go, Mr. Secretary. Now, before...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0580par1188	President, does it suit you to say that to a deputy at this hour?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1189	What happened? What happened?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0581par1190	You didn't turn on the minister's microphone.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0580par1191	What do you mean, you missed too much?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1192	What, I don't understand, what happened?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1193	You're shameless!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1194	Mr. Kaboglu wants a word, there's something coming out of it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1195	Shameless, shameless!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1196	Please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1197	Let's go to the alcohol test together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0579par1198	Come on, don't make any promises, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1199	Shame! Family, work, and social authorities are looking for a ZEHRA ZEHRA ZEMUT SELCUT, Mr. Lawmakers... You're a shameless man, shameless!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1202	The procedure is clear, according to the Civil Code...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1203	I'm telling you, it's embarrassing.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1204	Don't push me, Mr. Godkulu, please...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1205	I'm telling you, let's go for a physical together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1206	Please, don't speak without a word!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1207	Let's go for an exam together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1208	I don't know what he's talking about.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1209	You're shameless!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1210	What's he saying?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1211	Let's go together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1212	What does he say?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0584par1213	You can't say that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0582par1214	Come, we'll go together, come, we'll go to the exam together.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1215	We'll go, we'll go. [[A group of MPs from the AK PARTY and CHP rows walking on each other, the noise.]] Guys, wait a minute...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0585par1218	Mr. President, you should apologize. It's not right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1219	Mr. Successor, how?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0585par1220	You need to apologize, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0583par1221	But he's up there insulting me. I'll be damned!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0586par1222	Fix it, fix it!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0587par1223	That's no way to be president!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0586par1224	President, apologize!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0588par1225	Mr. Secretary, let's finish this question-answer process, and I'll meet your commitment demands. I didn't get a direct question, but I'll answer a few of the previous reviews, and we'll give you the rest in writing. For one thing, in 2018, 43.4 billion were earmarked for welfare. This number is actually very few. It says, "But again, we have another deputy from the same party. People are poor because you are there, poverty is because of your policies." So, conflicting statements to each other, but I'll answer: In 2002, social expenditures, which were only three in a thousand, went up to 1,16 in 2018. Again, Turkey's welfare spending, which was $36 billion in 2016, increased by 21.1% in 2018 to 43.4. Again, as I said in my speech, we are one of the countries in the world that reduce poverty rates in the Atlas of Sustainable Development Goals. Thus, our understanding of welfare is not because poverty increases, but because we receive more benefits. You will be billing the city for coal, pasta money we will distribute in elections; it is indexed to the elections. • None of the help we do is indexed to the election calendar, not independent of the election calendar, but very specific to the schedule. So I can't say that it's rational to make a connection between aid and elections. We also need to get rid of the accusations of the macarna, the government that distributes coal, because we're doing 90 percent of the benefits as cash right now, not delivering pasta, coal, not billing the distribution of coals to the municipalities. The TYPs are not indicative of the election. Again, a review of the unemployment benefit fund. It's under regulations concerning the assessment of unemployment benefit funds, and the general notification of public hospitals. We now have a $127 billion fund in the fund. Tomorrow morning... I think it's being distributed today, as you can see in the brochure that we've passed on to you, as you can see in our budget manual, our trend is going on in a very positive way. We are doing all of these investments through our ISKUR Board of Directors, in a very transparent environment where we have TESK, TİSK, TÜRK-İSK and Ministry representatives of our Treasury and Finance Ministry. At the same time, the funds are not independent of the Court's supervision, but are also supervised by independent control agencies in three months. We don't protect the pensioners. It's been said. We're always protecting our pensioners. We pay two pensions a year, and we pay promotions. As you have followed, the proposal was passed by the Plan and Budget Commission to ensure that there will be no more than 1,000 euro pensions. Therefore, we will no longer have a pensioner who receives less than 1,000 TL. Again, if we don't protect our pensioners... in 2002, the GDP is 4.6 per cent, while the pension rate is now 6.97 per cent. So how come we don't protect our pensioners? Those who live in retirement don't talk about it at all. It's called, our president has already stated that it's not on our agenda, but in the interest of speaking, to answer your question, I'd like to say that there's a misunderstanding here, there's a wrong conceptualization of retirement because it's one of the basic conditions of retirement, and it's essential to complete a certain age. There's an age limit for retirement all over the world. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish this, Mr. President. Let's complete it, Mr. Secretary. For the first time in Turkey, in 1992, the age requirement was lifted, but the system also reached the point of collapse and the age requirement was restored in 1999. I'm saying 1999, so the AK PARTI government is not the one that brings this age condition.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0589par1237	It's you, you; 2006, Mr. Secretary, you're 65 years old. As for the additional indicator... we have stood by every promise our president made, and every promise our President made has been kept. Thus, the EC PARTY has fulfilled every promise it has ever made. I don't know if you're following me, but just three days ago, on December 13, 2018, the second 100 Daily Action Plan, announced by our President, contains a clause in which teachers' additional indicators will be raised to 3,600. I hope I'll answer the other questions in writing. Other than that, in my speech just now, when I had to finish my 46-minute speech this year, I quickly forgot to thank all the employees of our Ministry of Family, Work and Social Services. I want to thank all my colleagues -- my colleagues -- very much here -- and hopefully we'll continue to do some very good work with them. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0590par1243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0591par1244	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0590par1245	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0591par1248	Mr. President, this is Parliament, of course we have different opinions, different understandings; from time to time, lawmakers in Parliament have statements that exceed the intent. I hope, and I hope, as chairman of this session, you have no right to do so, but the words you just made to our Istanbul MP, Mr. Sezgin Godkulu, are out of context, or we've misunderstood. Look at the mirror. Look at the pattern. Mr. President, this is not acceptable. I don't think it's possible that not only the Republican People's Party Group, but any member of parliament would agree to this. It's perfectly normal for Mr. Godkulu to be more angry and angry with your statements, and he has an offer for you. Let's both go to an alcohol test together. You shouldn't be in this situation, you shouldn't have put the House in this position. Apologizing is a virtue. That's what happens in groups from time to time. As chairman of the session, I'd like you to apologize, sir, by betting that there's a statement at this time of night that exceeds the intent of your fatigue.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0592par1253	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0593par1255	Mr. President, in my speech, I didn't specifically give names about drugs, I didn't give names, I didn't give names, I didn't give names, I didn't give names, I didn't give them names because they weren't here, but I told them their sources; I told them a source from the police, and I told them the interview of Sevket Bkent Jahnici. The sources are clear, but Mr. Secretary will look at them, three news reports, and I'll tell you right now: 2013, the Indian Keneviri Field with a Police View in Lice. This is the title of the News. Internet news, I'll tell you the sources. The daily Hurriyet reported on 27/8/2012 that the roof of the Karakol had been arrested with marijuana. Haberturk is much newer, 16/4/2018, 98 kilos in Erzincan, police... Again, the same way. I also told them that we are not targeting an institution here. He's already saying, "If the police are clean, society will be clean, but to expose those involved in this kind of work within the police is not just to wear out the institution, but rather to uphold the law." The only thing I can tell you about the pain is that we just met with our mayor, who was relieved of duty, who was appointed trustee. The mayor before him is known as Haso Dizo, a.k.a. the thief Hassan. It looks like 150 trillion in debt, but our mayor says there's 20 trillion in the safe when Sýrý Sakk was removed.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0594par1261	It's not like that.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0593par1262	If we're making a false statement...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0594par1263	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0593par1264	...we'll set up a research commission, you'll inform them, we'll share the facts with the public. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0594par1266	We'll see.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0595par1269	Dear friends, I will express my words on the statement of Mr. Altay. For one thing, Mr. Godkulu and I have a law that is older than most of our friends here. When I said look at the mirror, I meant to express his anger. That's one. Secondly, the matter of too many abductions is about oversimplification. There's no point in me saying anything about the condition of a friend here.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0596par1272	They get scared at night. You said it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0595par1273	Even if I meant something like that, I'd stand by it, no matter how much it costs. No one can doubt that. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0597par1277	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, we have to state here that Mr. Bilgen has gone after a nickname. It is related to the name of the mayor of our municipality until 2014, and it has stated that the public is called the thief Hassan. I'm sorry, I mean, you're going to call anyone what you want, and that's what they say in public, and they say in public... it's not your place to bring it in and make it sound right on the council bench. Look, I'll tell you what...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0598par1278	I said, let's investigate, let's set up a commission. Let the truth come out.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0597par1279	One moment, Mr. Bilgen, one moment... Now, why was there an intervention here? It's obvious, we've discussed it. It's in the council records. The government has appointed these trustees here because of a necessity. Look, look at the speeches. Constant conflict, war, war, war. In a systematic way, he was now a thief about the mayor, they called him a thief, something else related to the lcony, a goal to achieve a goal with no accuracy but a continuous repeat. Now, Mr. President, let's make these corrections, one: in 2014, our mayor, right, lost the election, but he's not a thief, he's your metaphor. I'm returning those words to you, Your Honor. Second: war, conflict... dear friends, war between two states. What the state of the Republic of Turkey does is fight terrorism, go after terrorism, ensure the safety of citizens' lives and property. (EC PARTY APPLAUSE) So we benefit from the right use of concepts. If there's going to be a debate in Parliament on the level and the right concepts, we'll respond the same way, but I want you to know that if we see a different approach, it's going to be reciprocally reciprocalized by us.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0599par1283	Mr. President, this is the last time.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0600par1284	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0599par1286	I said the exact numbers. You have more resources than we do. You know, in the March 2014 elections, how much does the municipality owe, how much do you put the numbers out, how much the trustee gets when he's in charge, and the truth comes out. We'd like this to be investigated. But I'll tell you a more concrete story, very briefly. When I was a congressman here, two Vans came in with a note, and they said, "We have a collection business. We can't do this. Would you intercede for the mayor? I was surprised, I said: What is it? They finally took it off. The fake bonds the Van Metropolitan Mayor gave to the company he founded before us are dear friends. So we have a lot on how you hand over the municipalities. I'm reading the figures in the Court reports. You're calling me Laila. Instead of telling me to return, do what is required of the Court's reports.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0601par1289	Mr. President, if there's any evidence, Turkey is a state of law, it does the law.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0602par1290	Be honest, honest!
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0601par1291	The one I returned to you... and you are entitled to a right, Your Honor. It's about a mayor, it's called Hassan the Thief. You guys don't have that right.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0602par1292	You don't have that right, you don't have the right to cover up the theft.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0601par1293	Would you like it if someone else used that expression on you the day after tomorrow? He won't. So don't use anything you don't like.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0603par1294	I'll give you the numbers.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0601par1295	You might say that you can criticize it for its mismanagement. What kind of nickname do you call him? Do you have that right?
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0604par1296	People wear people, people wear people.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0605par1297	The living wear it, the living wear it.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0601par1298	Can I tell you something else? Do a public study, and the mayors you call elected are called the men of the Kandil, the trustees. Do a search, go after him.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0606par1299	Thank you. Friends, members of the group, let's not talk mutually. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Dear friends, I'll make a promise to Mr. Gürer in question and answer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0607par1357	We also demand a word to Mr. Godkulu, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0606par1358	Okay, I promise Mr. Gürer, I'll promise him after that. Here you go, Mr. Gürer.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0608par1360	Thank you, Mr. President. We don't agree with the Minister's information about pensioners, it's unrealistic. Will the staff of subcontractors, waiting staff, hired car drivers in public, hospital IT processing workers, social facility workers, Highways, PTT, Railways, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Transport staff be given staff? Is the Ministry of National Education going to give the staff to people who work for the community? Will those who wait to receive insurance from pre-insurance women, those who start working as interns and apprentices, those who expect to be given old-age insurance, provide solutions for those who expect to be granted pension insurance laws? Will the victims of December 4th be given a staff of municipal employees, waiting for the seasonal and temporary staff? Will those who work five months and twenty-nine days in the city and the municipality's private administration be entitled to nine months and twenty-nine days? How do you feel about raising minimum wage to $2,200? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0609par1368	Dear Godkulu...
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0610par1371	Mr. President, thank you. Mr. President, of course, our law is old, we have a law like that, but this Parliament has a law. I mean, I don't think you're acting in accordance with our personal law and the law of this Parliament today. You've just tried to correct your words, but I'm guessing that the whole Parliament has an idea of what this correction means, but let me put it this way: I think it would be wise for you to review your manner in terms of personal law and the law of this Parliament, as well as against me, which is your former law, and against Ibrahim Kaboglu, our teacher, and before that, to the whole Parliament -- which I was the backmost -- in a way that scorned and reprimanded the law of all Parliament -- in terms of the future, I think, in terms of personal law, and in the absence of the law of this Parliament. Of course, I'll make a self-obsessed statement from this, but you're in charge of Parliament, and you need to be 10 times more attentive than we are. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-16sit04spe0611par1375	[[Applause from CHP rows]] Thank you. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 IMAGINATION OF IMAGINATION [[Continue]] 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget STUDENT WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION [[Continue]] 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 EVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT [[Continue]] 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Dear friends, we're going to vote now. I will have the budgets of public administrations in the 6th round transferred to their precise accounts and their budgets read separately, and I will submit them to your votes. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Interior will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Interior Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 GENEL TOPLAM 8.572.166,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Interior's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the internal ministry's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The Interior Ministry's Central Management Account for 2017 Total allowance 7.434.922.302.14 Budget Expenses 6.950.628.252.58 Compensation Expenses 11.389.86 Canceled Fund 484.305.439.42 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 314,076,637,66 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Ministry of Interior's Central Administration's final account of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Security Directorate be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.82) EMERGENCY GOVERNMENT 1) Police General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 33.676.247,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Security Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the Security General Directorate of 2017 be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Police General Directorate 2017 Central Administration Term Account Total allowance 17.942.943,564,27 Budget Expenses 23.421,927,672.89 Compensation Expenses 7.721.011.453.67 Canceled Fund 2.239.669.934.10 2.149.505.626,72 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the Central Government's final account of 2017 of the Security Directorate have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the General Command of the Gendarme shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:81) JANDARMA GENIAL COMMUNITY 1) Gendarme General Command 2019 Central Management Budget GENEL TOPLAM 19,604,133,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Gendarme General Command was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Executive Account of the General Command of the Gendarmes be transferred into the chapters of 2017: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Gendarme General Command Central Management Account for 2017 Total allowance 11.874.908.703.39 Budget Expenses 11.270.118.914.47 Canceled Payment 604.481.336.52 Transferred to the following year: 603,23,801,73 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the General Command of the Gendarme were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Coast Guard Command be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:83 A.M.S.I.C.O.D. 1) Coast Guard Command 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 869,313.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Coast Guard Command's central management budget of 2019 has been approved I submit to your votes that the central management account of the Coast Guard Command in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Coast Guard Command Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 747.801.592.33 Budget Expenses 580.724.828.73 Cancelled Fund 167,076,763,60 Transferred to the following year 153,128,717,21 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the Coast Guard Command were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Department of Immigration be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 10:85) GOVERNMENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) Migration Administration General Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 2,307,541.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Administration budget of the Finnish Immigration Administration was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of the Finnish Immigration Administration's General Directorate in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Migration Administration General Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 519.156.436.10 Budget Expenses 446.302.930.51 Canceled Fund 72,853,505,59 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Finnish Immigration Administration General Directorate's final account of central management in 2017 has been accepted. I submit to your votes that the President of Disaster and Emergency Management shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 10.86) AFET AND EMERGENCY PRESIDENT 1) Afert and Emergency Management Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 1,406,671.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. I submit to your votes that the president of the disaster and emergency administration shall be transferred to the section of the final account of the central administration in 2017: those who accept... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Afet and Emergency Management Chairman 2017 Central Management Budget Total allowance 3.333.599.451.20 Budget Expenses 3,185,728,670,26 Cancelled Fund 147,870,780,94 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 1,494,862,12 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the central management account of the President of Disaster and Emergency Management were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security shall be transferred to the chapters of the Central Management account in 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 10:84.) KAMU SECURITY AND SAFENESS 1) Undersecretary of Public Order and Security Total allowance 18,748,500,00 Budget Expenses 11.354.507.67 Canceled Fund 7.393.992.33 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Administration account of the Undersecretary of Public Order and Security has been approved in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: Those who don't... Sustained. 24) FAMILY, WORKING AND SOCIAL INFORMATION 1) Family, Ministry of Labor and Social Services 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 103,091,801.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Services was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security shall be transferred into the chapters of 2017: Those who don't... Sustained. 18) WORKING AND SOCIAL PROTECTION 1) The Ministry of Labor and Social Security 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 57,208,921,942.00 Budget Expenses 57.172.290.138.01 Canceled Fund 32,597,525,28 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 21,447,270,20 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Employment and Social Security Ministry's final account of central management in 2017 has been approved. I submit to your votes that the Central Administration account of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: Those who don't... Sustained. 24) THE FAMILY AND SOCIAL POLICY 1) The Ministry of Family and Social Policy 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 24.679.144.090.87 Budget Expenses 24.395.988.087.50 Canceled Fund 279.605.156.00 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 164,352,964,75 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Central Administration account of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy was approved in 2017. I would like to submit to your votes that the President of the Office of Occupational Qualification shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 40.50) THE PRESIDENT OF GOVERNMENT 1) The Executive Budget for Central Management in 2019 General TOPLAM 29.372,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 38.634,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the President of the Association for Professional Qualification was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Association for Professional Qualification shall be transferred to the chapters of the central management account in 2017: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted. 2) The President of the Occupational Compulsory Board of Directors' Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 29.867.650.00 Budget Expenses 24.565.808.60 Canceled Fund 5.301.841.40 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the sum of the income ruler: Budget Profits estimated 1773,000.00 Collection 28.782.047,36 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of the institution of vocational competence were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the state staff office will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 18.75) DEVLET PERSONEL PRESIDENT 1) President of State Staff 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 36.020,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The budget for central management of the State Chief of Staff was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the state staff president's central management account of 2017 will be transferred into the chapters: those in favor of... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) The State Staff President's Final Account for Central Management in 2017 Total allowance 30,287,000.00 Budget Expenses 27.350.102.55 The grant goes to 1,003,450,60 Canceled Fund 3.940.348.05 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Parts of the state staff's central management account of 2017 have been adopted. I submit to your votes that the Ministry of Health will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019, and those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 1) Health Ministry Central Management Budget 2019 General TOPLAM 48,437,276,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Health Ministry's central management budget was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Department of Health's Central Management account of 2017 will be transferred to the chapters of its final account: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Health Ministry Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 13.037.529.022.08 Budget Expenses 12.717.057.140.83 Compensation Expenses 8,621,254,16 Canceled Grant 328,214,508,01 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 15,048,524,86 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The Ministry of Health of Health has been accepted into parts of the fixed account of central management in 2017. I submit to your votes that Turkey's General Health Directorate of Borders and Coasts will be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.19) TECHNICAN HUDUT AND AGREEMENT 1) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 138.755,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 298.442,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Borders and Coasts Health Directorate will be transferred to the chapters of its final account in 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate 2017 Central Management Final Account Total allowance 583.536.280.00 Budget Expenses 304.535.968.21 Canceled Fund 279.311.79 The Fund Transferred to the Next Year 152.553.191.00 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget Profits estimated 219.274,000.00 Collection 285,733,933,16 Ret and Returns 276,933,01 Net Collection 285.457,000.15 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Border and Coastal Health Directorate in 2017 were adopted. I submit to your votes that Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred to the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.59) TÜRKEY MEDICINE AND TİBBI TERRIBLE PRODUCTION 1) Turkey Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 157,221.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 154.221.000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the Central Management Account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Devices shall be transferred into the chapters of 2017: those who accept... those who don't... are accepted. 2) Turkey Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total Payment 134,943,401,36 Budget Expenses 131,752.447.29 Savings Go 0.01 Canceled Fund 3.190.954.08 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 130.496,000.00 Collection 155,722,936,92 Ret and Returns 1,031.292.02 Net Collection 154.691.644.90 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Medicine and Medical Device Agency were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the chairmanship of the Turkish Institutes of Health shall be adopted into the central management budget of 2019: those who agree... those who don't... are accepted. 40.62) THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY INSTITIONS 1) Turkish Health Institutes Chairman 2019 Central Management Budget General TOPLAM 50.136,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. TOPLAM 50.136,000 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. The central management budget of the Turkish Health Institutes presidency was adopted in 2019. I submit to your votes that the President of the Turkish Health Institutes' final account for central management in 2017 be transferred to the chapters: Those who don't... Sustained. 2) Turkey's Health Institutes Chairman's Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 54,652.600.00 Budget Expenses 16,455,429,13 Cancelled Grant 38,197,170,87 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. (B) I'm reading the general sums of the ruler: Budget revenue estimate 51,080.000.00 Collection 18,039,792,50 All those in favor... those who don't... are accepted. Parts of the central management account of Turkey's Health Institutes presidency were adopted in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Hospitals Institution's central management final account for 2017 be transferred to its sections: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 15.75) THE BUILDING OF TURKEY CAMU HOSTELS 1) Turkey's Public Hospitals Agency for Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 12.328.860.446.39 Budget Expenses 12.339.399.489.49 Emancipation Expenses 109,012.208,64 Canceled Fund 98,473,165,54 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Public Hospitals Institution has been approved for the final account of central management in 2017. I submit to your votes that the Turkish Public Health Institution's central management account of 2017 will be transferred to its final accounts: those who agree... Those who don't... Sustained. 15.76) BUILDING OF THE PEOPLE OF TURKEY 1) Turkey's Public Health Institution Central Management Final Account for 2017 Total allowance 7.463.063.707.85 Budget Expenses 7.463.048.183.63 Canceled Fund 15,524.22 All in favor... Those who don't... Sustained. Turkey's Public Health Association's final account of central management in 2017 has been approved. Dear friends, the budgets and precise accounts of public administrations in the sixth round have been accepted. I wish them well. This concludes the sixth round of talks. According to the programme, it is 11 p.m. Monday (December 17th 2018) to discuss budgets and precise accounts of public administrations, respectively. I'm closing the merger to meet at 00.
