tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0001par0001	I am opening the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's plenty of meetings, we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first word outside the agenda belongs to Hatay MP Mehmet Necmettin Ahrazoglu, who wants to talk about the problems of Syrian Turkmen. Mr. Ahrazoglu, come in. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0002par0011	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've been promised off-the-tops about the problems of the Syrian Turkmen. I salute you all. Syrian Turkmen have lived as residents in Syria for a thousand years. The Syrian Turkmen, located in every square inch of Syria, are located in Aleppo, Bayır Bucak, Hama, Humus, Golan, Damascus, Idlip and Rakka. Turkmen, whose country is the second largest community in Syria, are an integral part of the soylic ties, as well as historically and culturally. Precious lawmakers have been the center of Turkey's efforts, for reasons such as its geographical position, relative ties, the long-standing diaspora of Syrian Turks in Turkey and Turkey's support for opposition. Its first political formation was the Syrian Democratic Turkmen Movement, founded in 2011 and the Syrian Turkmen Mass. Today, the Syrian Turkmen Assembly has been established and is still in office with the participation of 400 Turkishmen delegates starting on 30 March 2014. During the Syrian Turkmen's Baas regime, they were under serious pressure, their language was forbidden, their villages' names were changed, socioeconomic, administrative and political rights were restricted. As of the French manda administration, they were accused of being an agent of Turkey by all governments in Syria, especially the Baas administration. In this framework, many Turks were arrested, tortured and executed, while the lucky ones had to defect to Turkey. In short, the Syrian Turkmen have paid more than a hundred years for being Turkish, and unfortunately, they continue to pay. Precious lawmakers are already exposed to the pressure, attacks and arrests of Turkishmen in the south countryside of Damascus in Syria, in the regions of Golan, Penre, Hama and Hummus. The Turkmen present face domestic migration, surrender or death options. The demographic structure of the Turkmen region is being tried to change. In addition, houses in the Turkish border line of Rakka, Tel Abyad, Haseke and Menbic villages in northern Syria are confiscated by TYD/YPG, and confiscated houses are used as military logistical hubs by PYD/YPG. The property of the region is kadastro and population records destroyed, burned, destroyed. The demographic structure and sociological structure of the region is being tried to change. Returns to Turkmen villages in the areas that have been cleared of Operation Fırat Shield and DAEŞ have not been expected. Non-Turkmen elements are placed in villages where Turks cannot return. Finally, 50,000 people from the Arab population, who were evacuated from eastern Guta and Damascus, were brought to the El Bab and Cerablus regions in the River Shield area. As it is known, there are 142 Turkmen villages in Azez and Cerablus, within the site of the Firat Shield. Demographics of the region, which is a 1,000-year-old Turkishmen's home, have changed against Turkmen. It is a matter to be focused on, as Turkishmen threaten to present a security threat to Turkey in the near future, as well as to its presence in Syria. Syria cannot be without Turkmen, it must be. Bayır Bucak, Aleppo and Rakka Türkmen, who have been subjected to forced migration, live heavily in Turkey. It is estimated that about 200,000 Turks live in Lebanon. Damascus, the Golan Turkmen have migrated to Lebanon, Jordan and Egypt, except Turkey. It is known that some 500,000-600,000 Turksmen live in areas occupied by the PYD/YPG terrorist organization. The vast majority of our descendants are subject to migration. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, could you give me a minute?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0003par0022	Please finish your sentences, Mr. Ahrazoglu.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0002par0023	Dear lawmakers, we believe that we, as Turkey, should do our best to resolve the problems of Syrian Turkmen. The Syrian Turkmen must have a say in Syria's future, and their status in Syria must be guaranteed constitutionally. Political representatives of the Syrian Turkmen must be given the opportunity and help to open diplomatic missions in the security areas in Syria. After the Turkish land in Syria was relocated to the Suleiman Shah Temple and Respect Station, it is important for the Turks to provide protection and protection of the region. The problems of the Syrian Turkmen are to be claimed by Turkey and to produce solutions, I salute your grand delegation.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0003par0025	Thank you, Mr. Ahrazoglu. The second non-responsive statement belongs to Army MP Seyit Torun, who wants to talk about the problems of nut producers and the nut industry. Mr. Grandson, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0004par0030	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I've taken a stand off the agenda. First of all, I salute your high council and our esteemed viewers with love and respect. I'm going to start using the same phrases from this platform: we've said the problem of the nut maker over and over again, but now I'm looking at Mr. Secretary not here, and there's no one from the government, but I think they're coming when they're needed. (Applause) I'd like to remind you, Mr. Minister of Agriculture, that I'd asked him to put together the ingredients of the nuts before New Year's Eve, and that we'd put together the problems from the manufacturer to the supplier, and that we'd find solutions. When August comes, when the harvest comes, let's not throw the ball again. Let's not victimize the nut maker and let them face expectations. Now, look, right now, the maintenance period, the fertilizers, the yard maintenance, people still don't know what they're going to do, how much they're going to sell it for. We've already been importing all the agricultural products, importing the hay, importing the meat, but we'll have to import the nuts in the future. Maybe you'll laugh if I say so, but at this rate, maybe we'll be importing the nuts. We left a product of Turkey's most important foreign currency entry, delivered to a buyer in Europe. Ya, the entire state of the Republic of Turkey can't handle a buyer, can't compete with a buyer and unfortunately attracts a product that concerns 8 million people. We can't possibly accept that. I'm calling again to the Minister of Agriculture: Let's discuss the problems of the nut, find solutions; when August comes, there's no more office, whether it's FISKOBIRTY or the merchant? Mr. Secretary, you promised, and we follow that promise to the end. (HPP) Believe me right now, will there be a decision for nuts? You have the manufacturer's ear. These people voted for you, these people supported you. You're getting the highest vote in the Black Sea District. What do you want from these people? Do you want him to emigrate, or do you want him to leave that land? I mean, why would you leave a product with so much export income to its fate? Look, our loss this year alone is $300 million. Our loss this year alone is $300 million. This is all of our money, this country's money, the money that's supposed to come to this country, but because of your inconsistency, your indifference, and your indifference, we're both losing as manufacturers and exporters and countries. Sure, it's not just nuts, it's our problem. Look, it's not just the nuts. We're going to build a city hospital. You said there's nothing there. Every year you make promises for the freeway, every year, since 2014, you give calendars, and they still can't be finished. Unfortunately, there's an organized industrial area that turns into a snake story. You said, you gave people confidence, they still didn't get their money, you still haven't been able to nationalize it. There's not one facility you've already opened. Please, I'm calling again. Look, you bring up the election, and tomorrow you will go back to the people, and they will not question you. Where you go, they're going to ask you to pay for the unappreciated nut, the unmade way, the non-explored facilities, but of course, you're not paying for it, you're somehow taking our people by fear, by pressure, by various methods, by tricking them into a game, but it's over, the lake's dried up, the sea's dried up, and that's not going to happen anymore; the Black Sea producer and farmer will surely ask for the same injustice you've done to them this time. I'm calling again to the Minister of Agriculture, please take care of the issues of the nut and meet the requirements. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0005par0040	Thank you, Mr. Grandson. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Kahramanmarash MP İmran Kılıç, who wants to talk about the concept and values of Mirac. Mr. Sword, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0006par0045	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the law, these are the moments in which we experience the glory of the sacred mirac climate. The Mirac journey is a blessed journey, setting a precedent for those who want to see the way to attain the great virtues, as well as in the layers of reality at a time of existence. In this sense, the Mirac refers to man's journey of virtue, his rise from man to man. In today's world, why should we be surprised to understand that God, who gave this mind to man in addition to our admiration for the power of man, who is rapidly moving through science and technology and opening the gates of space, has greater power and power than that? Miraç is a gate that has been opened for centuries before today's reign. It also shows that mankind's rise horizon is infinite when it is equipped with what I'm about to present to you. Our faith in the unity and unity of the Miracin, the contribution and contribution to the destruction of rights violations throughout the world, especially the sacred land of our close environment and the miracle of Israel and the miracle of Mirach, the place of pain and tears, violence and terror, and lasting peace and peace. Dear lawmakers, the principles on the altar are the mausoleum of our civilization. These are the verses of Israel, which are written in verses 22 through 39: The world of existence is not coincidental, calculated, organized, organized, consonant, and possessed. This masterpiece has a great artist, get to know him. Be dutiful to your parents, and guard them, and do not hurt them. It's an adoption debt. And give to relatives their dues, and to the needy and the needy, and to travellers, and to those who have left their homes. Give them material and spiritual help. Do not be wasteful, wasteful, and do not be niggardly. Be thrifty between these two. Remember that economics, thrifty, is half the livelihood. Do not kill your children for fear of poverty. Allah guarantees the provision. Your production. Share with justice. Don't be wasteful. Stop the colony. He won't have a problem making a living. And do not approach fornication; indeed it is a clear immorality and an evil way. Adultery shakes families from their foundations, destroys communities. Don't kill people, don't shed blood. That's the worst sin and monster of all. It is as if he has killed a man, killed all mankind, and brought all mankind to life. Be kind to the orphans, and guard them, and do not extend your hands to them. Keep the promise and show loyalty in the covenant. So be steadfast in your word and your heart. And be upright in measure and weight. And give not short measure and short weight. Do not follow what you do not know. Stop being such a bigot. Work with evidence, for you are responsible for everything you say. Do not walk proudly in the land, but be humble, and do not be humble. Know yourselves. He who knows himself knows his Lord. We need to look at the Miracan from the light of faith and wisdom. With these feelings, I salute you with respect, with love.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0007par0064	Thank you, Mr. Sword. Congressmans, this is the 25th anniversary of the death of our 8th President, the late Turkut Özal. The deceased, Turgut Ozal, was a political leader who signed many political, economic and social changes in a difficult period in our recent history. He was an important figure in a time when we, as a country, came out of the nation and managed to understand his people. In Turkey, Turgut Özal has made political and legal moves of the late nation's will to strengthen the democracy and the economy of Turkey in his steps to a free and civil change. In addition to being a political man loved by his nation, we welcome our 8th President, Turgut Özal, who is also an example to all of us, with a respected political and state personality, on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of his death. May his place be in heaven. Now, I'm going to make a commitment to the 15 members of parliament who entered the system for one minute, respectively, according to the Civil Code 60. Mr. Gürer, I'll start with you. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0008par0073	Thank you, Mr. President. April 17th is the International Farmer's Fight Day. Farmers in our country are in great trouble. With the wrong policies of the AKP governments, our self-sufficient country in agriculture, unfortunately, its seed was imported, imported, medicine imported, product imported, and its input increased daily. Farming in our country is losing blood every day. Farmers' debt increased 17 times during the AKP administrations. In the first four months of this year, the farmer's situation has become even more difficult with the increase in gas and electricity. Farmers and our people pay the price for unplanned agricultural policies. Our country is wanted to become the market for the GDO-based products of international food rulers. The sale of sugar factories is the final blow to the beet farmer. The consumer has to buy expensive products when the manufacturer can't sell them for what they're worth. While the government condones the decay of potato products in the warehouse this year, farmers are pushed into debt. It has become a necessity for all our farmers and merchants to be delayed and their interest is expunged. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0009par0076	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0010par0078	Mr. President, precious MPs, yesterday, April 16th, was the anniversary of the adoption of the presidential government system by our nation. For a stronger democracy and a more prosperous Turkey, a 40-year-old dream that would strengthen the national will to survive a democracy that was often interrupted by parliamentary system crises and coups after multi-party life, our dear nation said, "Yes to the government system of the presidency, which is a 40-year-old dream." Once again, we thank our beloved nation, Turkey is the winner. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the anniversary of the death of our late President, Turgut Ozal. No one can take away his life except by His permission. We have surrendered ourselves to him. He says that serving the people is a service to the right. I remember Turkut Özal, a man of state, a man of understanding and visionary opinion, with gratitude, prayer, mercy, and gratitude for the service of an externally competitive Turkish man who has given life to the private sector. May his place be in heaven.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0009par0080	Thank you. Mr. Division, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0011par0083	Mr. President, as it is known, a hole about five metres deep in the Bayburt-Silverhane road to Aydıntepe for construction of vents has caused eight people to lose their lives and four others to be injured. On March 30, 2018, two vehicles with one Iranian license plate number have lost their lives due to the lack of necessary measures by the General Directorate of Highways of five foreigners. On the other hand, Turkey's largest console viaductulum bridge, the Bridge of Sevizdiz in Pervari district of Siirt, collapsed on December 18, 2017 as its construction was about to be completed. The reason why 200 people worked on construction and collapsed is unknown to the public, the 410-metre-long Bridge that was built in 2013 in a 500-foot-high viaduct. Have there been investigations and investigations taken into account of the government's negligence that caused people to lose their lives? What are the facts behind the recent embarrassing events? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0012par0086	Mr. Kayishoglu...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0013par0088	Thank you. These photos taken yesterday at Bursa Kestel show that Mandras Creek flows red. For years, the agricultural areas of Burma have been watered by the wastes and dyes of unsupervised, unsupervised industry. Our citizen is eating the products that are watered by chemical water, and cancers are increasing every day. I would like to address the authorities who do not prevent this brutal capitalist understanding, which, by the way, is the blood of our children, who are going to have cancer in the future, either stop or resign.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0012par0090	Mr. Durmusoglu...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0014par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. The deceased, Turgut Ozal, a respected political and statesman who had won the love of each and every part of our people, had named him among the most trusted figures in our political history, as a result of Turkey's important values and actions that led to the capture of the age. The deceased Ozal, who is not afraid to take the highest level of responsibility in our recent history, who led the nation at the point of overcoming our country's obstacles, and in the great change that he has made, has allowed us to rely on ourselves as the country and the nation, while signing new horizons to Turkey, no reform coming down from the mountain can motivate a nation's spirit. On the occasion of the 25th anniversary of his death, I ask for God's mercy, honor and thanks to the 8th President, Turgut Ozal.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0015par0095	Mr. Pitcher...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0016par0097	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers have brutally discharged members of the AKP's government, the DİSK, the KESK, or other trade union and NGOs against the AKP without any justification. These people are receiving a report from Mersin Public Prosecutor's Office: "As of today, no investigation has been carried out concerning membership, discrimination, or association with the terrorist organization of the Party (PDY) and other terrorist organizations. Look, the reports are all here, so I can give them to anyone who wants them. Despite these reports, you don't return people to their jobs, you have no right. These innocent people must be returned to their jobs immediately. You run the government with hatred and hatred. If you think you can discipline these brave people by leaving them out of work, you're wrong, they'll answer to you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0017par0100	Dear Nurlu...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0018par0102	Mr. President, there's a very interesting appointment in today's official newspaper. At the opening, Recep Tayyip Erdogan was appointed as the former Deputy General Manager of Asia, President of the Capital Market Board. Under the appointment order are the signatures of the President and the entire Council of Ministers. When you even fired those who passed past Asia, the appointment of Ali Fuat Taşkesenlioğlu, a longtime manager at the bank of the Bank, to head an institution such as the SPK, caused suspicion that the AKP/AKP alliance had been re-established. Since the July 15 bloody coup attempt, the absence of the political foot of the ا, the return of the ex-profits to important tasks, the fight against everyone outside the اs, unfortunately, raises doubts about the re-establishment of the AKP/AKP alliance. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0017par0107	Members of parliament, Mali Parliament President Maharamdou Lamine Djiguine, President of the Fiscal Parliament, who is visiting our country as an invitation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the delegation with him, Mr. Emine Yavuz Surkın, head of the Turkish-Mali Parliament. On behalf of our coven, I welcome them. [[Applause]] It's time for Mr. Constant. Here you go, Mr. Constant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0019par0113	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 25th anniversary of his death, I remember the 8th President, Turgut Özal, with mercy, gratitude, and gratitude. The practice of state of emergency continues in the interest of our country and against terrorist organizations trying to refer to our integrity. When we look at groups that are uncomfortable with the extension of the State of Emergency, it seems clear that the path we are on is correct. In Turkey, the State of Emergency is an important part of the fight against traitors, not the constraint of civil rights, as opposed to its example in the world. This practice for the peace and well-being of the Turkish nation, I stress, is a national decision. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0020par0117	Mr. Zeybek...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0021par0119	In our country, agriculture is in decline. Fifteen or twenty years ago, the self-sufficient country now imports all kinds of products from outside. The high-release nut is controlled by the monopoly capital. Potatoes are rotting in Nevşehir warehouses; onions, Amasya, Çorum, Eskişehir, Polythian warehouses; garlic, Kastamu, Tasköpru are rotting in their warehouses; barley, wheat is sold at the prices of ten years ago. Animal feed, dandruff, over the price of wheat. We demand that the producer's debt to banks, to agricultural loan co-ops be expunged and their loans delayed, and our farmer, our producer, our village, be taken care of, and that is how we want the production to be supported. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0020par0121	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0022par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. My request is to Mr. Minister of Labour and Social Security: The Butler, who was originally my hometown and many citizens in all the provinces of Turkey, the tradesman, the worker, are sadly waiting for his age to retire, so he has completed his bonus days, but he is waiting for an age to retire. We demand that these citizens retire as soon as possible, on one occasion, because the economy, the citizen's condition is clear. We demand immediate retirement of all of our victims.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0020par0125	Mr. Dedeoğlu instead of Mr. Sword...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0023par0127	Thank you, Mr. President. The people's vote held on April 16, 2017, and our nation claimed its future. Our nation, in great maturity, has gone to the polls and implemented the most important management reform in history. A constitutional amendment of 18 articles is a radical reform. Together with the presidential government system, relations between the administration, legislation and jurisprudence are completely separate. These three organs will serve the same common goal, one nation, one country, one flag, one state. Our nation, who fought inland and abroad without compromise from democracy, was the architect of the presidential government system with this victory at the polls. On the 25th anniversary of the death of President Turgut Özal, who spent sixty-six years of his life seeking a free and civil change, whose understanding of the state's existence for the individual is in the hearts of the nation. May his soul rest in peace and his place be in heaven. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0024par0131	Mr. Wellercuoğlu...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0025par0133	Thank you, Mr. President. Several victims continue to occur after July 20th in Turkey. Several officers, workers, teachers, academics were removed from their duties, either expelled or suspended. Some of these people were acquitted in court, and some of them were ruled untraceable by the state's attorney's office. Some of them have received documents from the prosecutors that no prosecution has been sanctioned. When are you going to start returning their reputations and returning their jobs so these people won't be more victims? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0026par0136	Mr. Tanal...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0027par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm asking the Foreign Ministry through you: the official Twitter account of the Republic of Turkey's consulate of Cologne is shared by UETD, which is the political organisation of the EC PARTY abroad, and its messages are shared, and its messages are shared. Under Article 7 of the Law of State Officers No. 657, officers must be neutral. While carrying out their duties, officers cannot act in the interest of one political party or at the loss of another. In the official account of our consulate, what will the Foreign Minister do about the Consul of Cologne, who shares the messages of the EC PARTY abroad? Because it is subject to 657. It is a crime for officers to share messages in favour of a party in accordance with Article 7 (7) of State Officers' Law 657. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0028par0141	Dear Arik...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0029par0143	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker won't back down from expressing his quarrel with the republic at every turn. At a final ceremony, he takes the early years of the republic as a reminder of the 1930s. Mr. Kahraman, the Kayseri Plane Factory, the Bünyan Carpet Factory, the Sumerian Diaper Factory are just some of the factories that were opened in Kayseri. That's when thousands of factories were opened that you couldn't sell like bad boys today. Mr. Hero, what's with the head? What is your problem with Mustafa Kemal Ataturk? Who are you trying to rematch? We know who's in the account of what, who's in charge, who's in charge of the game, who's in the lead. There's a writer, and there's a spoiler, and I swear we'll break this game in 2019. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0030par0146	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0031par0148	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 25th anniversary of the death of our late President, Turgut Ozal, our 8th President, who has an exceptional place in the heart of our beloved nation, I ask God's mercy, and I remember him with respect. In addition, yesterday (April 16th) was the 1st anniversary of the adoption of a public vote against the presidential government system, an important turning point for Turkey. Under the conditions of the Cold War years, our administrative and political system, created by coupgers, for the first time by the April 16th referendum, has been changed democratically by civilians, leading to a transition into the presidential government system. With the April 16th referendum, a vital step has been taken to achieve permanent political stability, fast and effective action, strong Parliament, strong representation, strong governance and strong Turkey's goal. The new system says it's an undisputed, non-conservative nation's ruling system, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0032par0151	Dear Cora...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0033par0153	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Turgut Ozal, our 8th President, who has made our country ready to compete with the civilized world by reading very well the qualities of the era, both with both his ideas and practices, continues to live in the heart of the Turkish nation, where he has come out of his heart as a great leader and statesman, with his goals, with his love and loyalty to his nation. On the 25th anniversary of the eternity of the 8th President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Turgut Özal, who is deeply devoted to the Turkish nation and who is troubled by the suffering of his nation, I humbly and gratefully offer my condolences to his family and to the great Turkish nation.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0032par0155	Mr. Lightning...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0034par0157	Thank you, Mr. President. Repressive practices against the press and press in Turkey are now applied not only to the press, but also to their families. A opposition journalist in Adıyaman (Hadji Bulutakin's daughter Zozan Bulutkin) works at the third airport in İstanbul (İGA) while working as a food technician for three years). What happened when Zozan was constantly appreciated for his performance during his work, when suddenly his job was terminated, because he was called "Zozan" or because he was the daughter of Hajji Bullekin? Recently, the pressures on Kurdish language have been reduced to individual names. In subcontractors, this Kurdish name issue has become a part of the so-called security investigations. I call the Zozans, the Dilans, not the Agits, sirs. On the grounds of the State of Emergency, I would like to invite the authority that has the right to do everything to everyone to be reasonable.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0035par0160	Finally, Mr. Goody, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0036par0162	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. President. As you know, the day before yesterday, the PKK terrorists attacked the base in Şırnak's Well Tepe, and three of our soldiers were killed. Our 21-year-old soldier Baki Afsar, who was killed a week before his discharge, was buried today at the mosque of Çorum Aksemsettin, with the participation of tens of thousands of Compounders. On this occasion, I ask for God's mercy, I ask for mercy to all our martyrs, and I offer my condolences to his family. In the meantime, I would like to point out in particular that all political parties are in need of unity and solidarity in terrorism. Political parties should take a civil stance as a basis for civilian politics, distance themselves from terrorism and violence and politics with much thicker lines and openly reject terrorism. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Everyone should know that those who feed on terror must know that evil is bad in the world, and that there is no end in the land of Oğuz. On this occasion, I wish mercy to the late Ozal. At the same time, Ibrahim Ozdish Bey's nephew died at the age of 37, and I offer him my condolences.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0037par0168	Thank you. We wish God's mercy to all of us who lost their lives on Monday (April 16th) in the province of Shenoba, and also to the wounded Private Bestami Horseman, again registered to the population of Adıyaman Kahta, Corporal Mehmet Volcana, Muğdat Çelike, Baki Afshar. May the Lord protect our country, our nation, from all terror, from disaster. I'm going to make a two-minute commitment to the members of the group who entered the system. The first word belongs to Mr. Master. Here you go, Mr. Master.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0038par0177	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, on the 25th anniversary of his death, our 8th President, the late Turtle Ozal, is blessed and grateful. He was a great man of state and politics who had been extremely useful to our country. I wish you mercy again. Yesterday, a sad news came from Şırnak. Three of our heroes have been killed and one of our soldiers has been injured in a low attack on the Bestler Creeks well base area. I pray to our martyrs for the mercy of God, and to our wounded soldier for immediate healing. Mr. President, many of our citizens have died in recent traffic accidents in different parts of the country. In Çanakkale, Çanakkale, Çanakkale, in Çanın Basza, Nevşehir, Kartal E5, Kara Road, Erzurum, in the area of Kokeleli Dilova, our citizens have lost their lives in traffic accidents. I would like to take this opportunity to point out that once again, traffic needs to be more careful and that measures need to be increased. Recently, Mr. President, we've been receiving serious messages from our police. This is said to be the April of terrorism, which has been being handed over for some time, which is being given twice a year, although this year is still a month of April, in which terrorism compensation should be paid in January. Whatever the problem is with this, it's best to get rid of it and give our heroic police the compensation they deserve as soon as possible. Mr. President, as it is known, on 16 April 2017, a constitutional amendment was made in Turkey as a result of a public vote, and the Constitutional amendment was envisioned in the first election of the presidential government system. Today, Mr. President at the State Garden group meeting, expressing that Turkey's internal and external risks should not be considered and that the presidential system, adopted by our people on April 16th, should be passed as soon as possible...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0039par0184	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0038par0185	... In expressing this necessity, he called for an early election. The call for early elections is based on very solid grounds. Predicting regional risks and dangers, preventing it, preventing it, has become increasingly chaotic and complex. In particular, Turkey is living in an environment where the Syrian-based third world war scenarios are spoken, or rather, our geography is living. The terrorist attacks continue uninterrupted and uninterrupted. Dark scenarios for our national security, new attack plans are in effect, watching for our weak moment, our regression. Political and economic operations against our country, which have been set up against this one, and not to be left with it, are gaining depth day by day, and are gaining momentum. Turkey therefore wants to be overwhelmed by system debates, and under the current conditions, Turkey has called for this early election, saying that waiting until November 3rd, 2019 is a great risk to Turkey. Turkey is also in an economic embargo; foreign currency, interest, and hot money are being taken into a Turkish nation's embargo.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0039par0188	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0038par0189	The presidential government system is under constant trial, slander, simultaneous activities against the will of the people, and a campaign against the will of the people is being carried out. For Turkey's sake, it is imperative that the national agreement, which is associated with the Cumhur Alliance, be maintained carefully and achieve its goal. Thus, on Sunday (August 26, 2018) Turkey called for its general election of parliament and the presidential election to cut the risks at its source. This is a very meaningful and reasonable history, a time when the victory of Malazgirt was taken, when the Great Attack began. With a new spirit of victory, Turkey will be able to make a new election. In this period of time, when domestic and external threats are heavy, Turkey must pass through the new government system very quickly, put the stones into place, and the shallow arguments must be cut like knives. Five hundred and sixty-five days of uncertainty will be reduced to one hundred and thirty-one days if this decision is made. Of course, it would be with Parliament's approval, but if Parliament makes this decision, the risks in front of Turkey will be reduced, and Turkey will move on strongly with the new government system. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0039par0191	Thank you. Mr. Kerestecioğlu, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0040par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. It's been a year since the April 16th referendum, and there's been a lot of promises on April 16th, but today the public has an empty stomach, credit cards, debt, foreclosures, a lot of envy and war. If it does, there will be no martyr's funeral. It was said that 518 soldiers who were able to identify had lost their lives. If yes, unemployment will end. There are 5m 384,000 unemployed in Turkey today. The economy will fly. It was said, let the tradesmen shut down, the debts grew, the raises came every day, and taxes increased every day. Within just a year, the dollar went from $3.65 to $4.08 and the gasoline went from 5.38 to $6.09. Now, the teachers that this country raises, the teachers that we have to add to our day and night to keep alive, commit suicide out of desperation. In 2014, 25-year-old Merve rye graduated as a teacher of social sciences, although he received a good score from KPSS, he was not appointed for four years. Last resort found a job at a school in Istanbul, but was soon removed from here due to unsecured work conditions. I'm looking for work. I'm afraid he never came back to the house where he came from, teacher Merve. Now there's no rule against his death that every college graduate will still get a job. We're wondering if some politicians will be able to say it. Today, a decision was made about the divine writer Ihsan Eliaç. Six years and three months in prison, ban on leaving abroad and out of Istanbul and signing at the police station two days a week.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0041par0199	Let's wrap it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0040par0201	No discounts, no delays. İhsan Eliaç says you should hear this very well: I was tried for 35 separate cases on September 12th and February 28th, and I have never received such punishment. They didn't take one word into account of my lawyers and my defenses. It seems too much for those who forget what justice is, that Ihsan Eliubeh's understanding of religion is for justice and equality, that he opens his honor not in palaces, but in the streets with everyone else. Also today, investigative journalist and historian Ayşe Hür was sentenced to one year and three months in prison for a tweet. The announcement of the verdict has been postponed, and if he commits a crime within five years, the punishment will be imposed, which is the most common way to silence people. It's a country where the good people, the justice people, are in prison, the criminals are out there. I am not saying to Ihsan Eliğeğa and Ayşe Hür. I am saying that we will all leave these days behind.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0041par0204	Please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0040par0205	Yes, as the dollar went up, the Cumhur Alliance had to make an early election decision. We already knew that this decision would be made, and we, the People's Democratic Party, are prepared to make all kinds of choices, but as we've expressed it over and over again, I'd like to say here that going to elections in the State of Emergency is an expression of weakness. You go to elections on equal terms, you go to everyone's freedom of propaganda. If all this is going to an election before it's done, then it's really a choice because it's going to land in that business. I wish you all the best. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0041par0207	Thank you. Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0042par0210	Thank you, Mr. President. As you've just said, we're in mourning as a nation again. We've learned that we have three martyrs with the sad news from Şırnak. There's one thing I've been saying in my defense, the Great National Assembly of Turkey is a condolence tent, not a condolence. In order not to get this news, I think the Grand National Assembly of Turkey needs to apply pressure at the point of the government taking radical measures on this issue. We must, of course, say good things behind our martyrs, but fire falls on the families, and the martyrdom of our children when there is a chance for us to lose their children, who they raise for 20 years or more, who they feed, who they feed, who they don't drink, who they don't wear, who they dress, who they may lose. Of course, unity and integrity are important. For the establishment of peace on this country's land, for the safety of lives and goods, our Mehmetchik, our soldier, our police will undoubtedly perform their duty, but this problem has to end. Now I'm sad to hear that the news of the martyrs from Turkey's East and Southeast Anatolian news is upsetting me, and I hope it upsets my party, as well as the other parties in Parliament. It's time for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to take over. Mr. President, on the other hand, you mentioned that today is the anniversary of the death of the deceased, Turgut Özal. It was a colorful personality. After one blow to Turkey, after a fascist coup, the coup d'état, the other party that received custody...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0043par0214	Please come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0042par0215	By defeating the coup d'état on the terms of that day, he was government, Prime Minister, President of the United States. Turgut Ozal had significant contributions and services to this country, and we are grateful and grateful for its precious service to our country. On this occasion, we would like to express that we share the pain of his family, his relatives. Mr. President, today is also the anniversary of our enlightenment revolution, our modernization project, the hundred-white, modeled educational system and project of the village institutes. The foundation law... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0044par0219	Pack it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0042par0220	I'll clean it up right away. On April 17, 1940, the Law on Village Institutes was adopted. We bow before our teachers, sir, who are living village institute graduates, while the Republican People's Party, which has been raised in village institutions, has contributed to the modernisation and development of this country, while many of them are not among us now. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0045par0223	Thank you. Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0046par0226	Mr. President, I'd like to start with the mercy and gratitude of our fallen soldiers in Şırnak. He will accept their testimony and admit them into Paradise. I'm sorry for our nation's loss. Today, I would like to say that on the 25th anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the death of our 8th President, Turgut Özal. We give thanks and thanks for his great service to our country. Likewise, as it is known, April 14th, 20th, Martyrs Week. I pray for the mercy of the Lord God, who gave his life for his country and its people without blinking. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0047par0230	Thank you. Let's move on to the agenda. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 17/4/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 17 April 2018, the group was awarded 7512 groups no. The motion for parliamentary research submitted to the Turkish Parliament to contribute to democratic political life and to discuss the results of the controversial referendum, to bring the extraordinary political developments from 16 April 2017 to the present day has been suggested to be met on Tuesday (17/4/2018). Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak on behalf of the People's Democratic Party's group proposal. Here you are, Mr. Öz Gökçe Ertan. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0048par0248	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. Yes, as it is known, a full year ago, there was a referendum on completely inequality conditions. Like us, the ruling party, which was subject to the Law of Political Parties, did its own propaganda process in those days, using not only its own power, but public resources, state resources, and state opportunities. This campaign process was a process where trustee governors and trustees and even all government officials worked as AKP members. We've all witnessed situations where the people who led the charity campaign were easily declared terrorists, targeted and arrested by the government. There was an environment that was not even allowed to discuss the meaning of the constitutional amendment, where the media put embargoes on opposition, democratic fans in every way. Despite all of this, the constitutional amendment was accepted in a suspicious way and with a very small difference, but the difference was that while the election process was going on, it was brought to the "yes" front by the unsealed envelopes, which was against the law by the YSK. We all remember, Mr. President, on the evening of the referendum, the man who took the post passed by the station. He used his statement. It was actually a statement that revealed and accepted the deception, but let's just say that the struggle that was won or won that day, according to us, according to the pro-democracyists, Turkey is not finished and is not even beginning yet, according to those who believe in the bright future of Turkey. Members of parliament, those in power want to rule this country by themselves, not by the basic principles of democracy, because it is clear that for over a year and a half, the entire country will be dominated by the State of Emergency and all the legal arrangements needed by the KHK. Of course, the Constitutional Court, at the top of the judicial pyramid, has played a major role not only in ruling the country with the KHK, but also in the Constitutional Court. Yes, Turkey III. Like the early years of Reich's Nazi Germany, it is now wanted to be governed by constitutional decrees. On the other hand, the arrangements after the April 16th referendum, which took place under the State of Emergency, in a way, have institutionalised the State of Emergency. For example, the regulation to make the unsealed envelopes used in the referendum valid has been enforced in accordance with the election alliance law issued under the conditions of the State of Emergency. Members of parliament, along with the referendum, have caused massive damage to the balance control mechanisms, seen as an obstacle to democracy and human rights. As a matter of fact, the European Union's progress report on Turkey, which will soon be announced, says that this is the biggest criticism. After the results of the referendum, anyone who opposes the country by the hands of those who are at the top of the run personally has been cross-contacted, hostile. The political institution has been made an instrument of social polarization. After the referendum, democratic politics has suffered a major injury, along with tension politics due to unstable policies in domestic and international relations. In particular, efforts are being made in domestic politics to ensure that our party is targeted directly and unable to make policy. At this point, the President can insult us as leader of a political party as he wishes, he can target us as he pleases, but our slightest criticism of him has been ruled on contempt for the President, and for that reason, our MP's parliament has been demoted. Congressmans, the results of the April 16th referendum were not the result of a process, but the beginning. As a result, on April 16th, Turkey's society was pushed into a one-and-a-half-year uncertainty, which affected the economy because of the continuation of the OHAL. As a matter of fact, every month, unemployment rates are rising, interest rates are rising, and dollars, euros, and gas prices are running against each other to set a record. Just before the government's referendum as a major revolution, according to official figures, the dollar is $3.5 and today the gas is over $6. Even these indicators clearly show economic developments following today's referendum. From the referendum to today... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me for a moment.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0049par0258	All right, put me through. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0048par0259	Thank you. Yes, lawmakers, even these indicators show the level of economic improvements. Unfortunately, the situation of the country, which has already been bad in law, justice, and political arena, as it has been in the economy over the past year from the referendum, has been much worse. No one trusts the judiciary, or even three of the four people living in Turkey long for the past, according to a study released today. For months, we've been calling on every environment we can find, especially this bench, and what this country needs is conflict politics, not hate language, peace and democracy. Therefore, it is a great need not only for us, but for the entire Turkish community to contribute to democratic political life, for all these discussions to be discussed with the results of the controversial referendum, to be under the scope of extraordinary political developments from April 16, 2017. We expect you to respond to this need and support our motion. My respects to all of you. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Thank you. On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Osmaniye MP Ruhi Ersoy. Here you go, Mr. Ersoy. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0050par0268	Mr. President, the high-profile lawmakers, the motion has been made to refer to the referendum. So let's ignore the referendum that took place on April 16, 2017, a year after the referendum, let's bring things to light today, and let's study the necessity of the parliamentary system again after the referendum. As the National Movement Party Group, we will never be able to accept such an offer. We argue that the state of the Republic of Turkey and the Turkish nation and Turkish democracy have taken on a new phase, and that this phase is the governing system of the presidency, and that the government system of the President should now enter the port, along with the elections. Today, Mr. President has explained his motives with extraordinary coasters. We live in the history of democracy in the Republic of Turkey. In these days, we are a party that cares deeply about the attitude and behavior and balance control of democracy and security relations. Without national security, national support and the existence of the state, we are opposed to our country being led to a different adventure by hiding behind basic rights and freedoms around the set of positive values, individual freedoms and democratic republics and so on. And because we are against it, we think it would require a strong understanding of governance so that a Turkish state, a capital based in Ankara, a Turkish-Islam-based civilization, can be created as a great country, to be led by the Turkish Republic of Turkey in an environment where we are quickly surrounded by a strong understanding of government. We believe that global barons do not stand idle, but run different programs and projects on their native extensions, taking into account the risks of infection, and taking into account the risk of infection. For that reason, we deeply believe that as the political party standing next to the national nation of red apples, the national state of the Republic of Turkey, and the nation of Turkey, the great Turkish nation is closely monitoring these developments. As a member of a party that has proposed the government system and transformed the government system into a government system, and has been monitoring its developments step by step, we respectfully welcome the future of the Republic of Turkey's state, the support of the Turkish nation, and the uninterrupted vehicle of the Turkish nation -- the days are coming -- to see the days when the PKK -- cleans up its system, especially the government's government's government.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0051par0272	Thank you, Mr. Ersoy. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Gaziantep MP Mehmet Gökdağ will speak. Mr. Gökdağ, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0052par0276	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, first of all, I ask for God's mercy on our martyrs, my condolences on our relatives and our nation. I'm here to talk to you about a motion for the results of the questionable referendum. First, I must say, dear friends, valued lawmakers: Since the power of the AKP 2002, you have been very good at making all institutions in this country controversial, making all institutions questionable. You've made all institutions debatable, all institutions questionable. No one trusts any institution. There's no trust in judgment, there's no trust in foreign policy. Today you say, "O America! You stand by America; and the next day you say, 'O Russia!' and you stand by Russia; and you say to Israel, 'O Israel!' and then you are at the bottom of the knee of Israel. Education... you've confused, you've made it suspicious, people are confused, teachers, parents, students, principals, everyone is confused. Economics... no one sees tomorrow in the economy, everything is questionable. Elections... dear friends, look, despite our lack of democracy, despite its failure, one of the best things to do in this country was to choose. Elections happen, people reflect the will of the people, people reflect the will of the nation, and everyone respects those results, and no one would have thought of a doubt in the election? But today, you've infected the election. What did you do? In the April 16th referendum, you have made the unsealed ballots valid, despite the law, and despite the law, unconcerned votes will be invalidated. Against the law, you have made unsealed ballots valid. Then these elections -- especially our Mr. President -- are questionable. These results are not legitimate. When we cried out, you all sat up from where you were. But today, with the alliance law you passed, you yourself declared that the election results on April 16 were illegal, so on April 16th, you accepted that these elections were illegal, that the Supreme Election Board's decision was illegal, that you changed the rule of choice by making it legal. Why? If unsealed votes are already valid on April 16th, if this is legal infrastructure, why did you arrange for unsealed votes to be valid in this election bill you've changed? Because you know that on April 16th, the Supreme Election Board's decision is not legal, it's not legal. Dear friends, you're trying to save yourself. No matter what you do, there's no use in fear. In the first elections, no matter when it's done, tomorrow, three days later, 15 days later, August 26th, whenever the first elections are held... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish my sentence.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0053par0285	Finish your sentence, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0052par0286	Yes, no matter what you do, dear friends, make legal arrangements, illegal regulations, illegal arrangements, in the first elections, people will answer for these dark days and turn the darkness over the country into sunny days. We have faith in that. No matter what arrangements you make in the elections, election security will be taken, and not a single game will be wasted, I would like to announce from here to my fellow citizens, citizens, and salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0053par0288	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the last word on the group's proposal belongs to Istanbul MP Markar Eseyan. Here you are, Mr. Eseyan.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0054par0292	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the AK PARTY Group against the investigation motion submitted by the HDP Group. I salute you all with love and respect. Today, of course, is also the anniversary of the death of our late President, Turgut Ozal. He is the symbol of one of the major jumps in democracy that Turkey has experienced, and he has really contributed seriously to the point of opening Turkey to the world and to the strengthening of civilian politics. That's why our people never forget themselves. As of yesterday, we again understood the 1st year of the April 16 referendum, the Constitutional Amendment. Despite what the other opposition here, the CHP and HDP, has said, the April 16 referendum, like the democratic leap in the autonomous era, also refers to Turkey's very important leap of democracy. Of course, this constitutional amendment, which the EC PARTI and the MHP carried as political carriers, was not a conjunctural situation; it was a key milestone in the journey of 150 years of democracy, to strengthen the will of the nation. In this sense, I also congratulate all our citizens, who have used their vote to go to the polls, to turn this referendum into a democracy festival. A democratic, efficient, powerful, and fast government system that has closed the door to the custody centers, inefficiency, the power union, the democracy fugitives; the nation's will has been imposed by a large reform nation in accordance with our age. Basically, politics has become difficult, but the nation has gained will and democracy. It's perfectly normal for actors to have the courage to stand up to such change, not to give it up. By relying on a small group, a narrow ideological camp, or sectarianism, ethnicism, nervousness, economic interest groups, it will no longer be possible to show a small vote in politics; all parts of our nation will have to be embraced; politics will be normalised, formed around real agendas. Perhaps the attitude of the opposition parties campaigning for no, and the reason for this motion is that the nation's will will will will take a central role. Therefore, after 16 April, CHP and HDP continued their rhetoric on the same side of the election, while on the other hand, they became a couple of adjoined characters aimed at impressing all voters. We think that's one of the early harvests of April 16 reform. From now on, the people will say the last word, and behind closed doors, political design will not be possible. As of election day, the government will be established, Parliament will be formed, the voters will not be surprised. And so, long before the election, the alliances began to become apparent, and the nation would decide its preference by looking at these alliances. I'm saying it's not a democracy, and I'm stopping talking by thanking you all for listening to me.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0055par0297	Thank you, Mr. Eseyan. People's Democratic Party...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0056par0299	Mr. Orator has made a mockery of us.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0057par0300	He picked on us, too.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0056par0301	In the same way, using CHP's name and the HDP's name, the lines will be established after this, as if we would no longer take part, not represent the will of the people, and then the actual representation will take place.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0057par0302	We also have a request for a statement from the taunt, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0058par0303	Actually, he spoke very naively, the speaker, I don't know, did I miss it?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0059par0304	Sir, he speaks so naively and says such heavy things.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0058par0305	Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0060par0308	That's just the tone of his voice. Sometimes it's thought that way in my voice, but it's not always naive. Now, really confident rulings, politicians who are going to enter the election with that confidence, don't go to the election on the terms of the State of Emergency once. This country has had its fill, this country has had its fill of its constant enemy, the enemy, the enemy, the enemy, the enemy. This country now wants a political style that looks at the future with real hope, who doesn't approach people with anger, who monitors everyone's rights, who doesn't put lawmakers in jail -- when you can't deal with them. Now, like I just said, the dollar goes up, the economy goes up, the euro goes up; the gas goes up, the engine goes up; people don't count what's missing from their pockets. So, what are you doing? So you're looking at the polls, and it's not going to work like that. And then you say, "Well, we've done a lot of great things now on April 16th, so let's turn that into an election with the Cumhur Alliance and make sure it's really good for the people." What, for God's sake, are you really making fun of our minds or people's minds? If you are so confident, then open up all the channels. Do not sell them to Demirören. Let's go out on all channels and talk and discuss them.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0061par0311	Tell Aydın Doğan. He sold it, we sold it?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0060par0312	If you're going to the election in the light of those arguments. Is it possible for you to do such a thing? You can't possibly do that. April 16th lost to this country, and you want to make it lose even more, but there's no end to it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0062par0316	Thank you. Mr. Altay, for the same reason, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0063par0318	What did he say?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0064par0320	Thank you. Mr. Markar has freedom of speech, he came and used his freedom, so use it. Now, the congressman described and reflected the April 16th referendum as not normal for us to question his legitimacy; he accused us of a double attitude. If we had done wrong, the last law you brought in would have been the same as the unsealed compasses. You would not have made the judgment. I'm not saying that we're not saying that, sir, that the unsealed ballots were yes, no, no, and there's a printed unsealed compass, and yes, there's a sealed compass. When the law comes to work, we need it. We don't need it. We always need the law. We want everything to be in the law norms. I wish you could say that. I know what's under there, and so do the people. I'd like to underline that, one. Secondly, Mr. Eseyan will answer my question as to the intimacy test: "We have cleared all GERPs in the AK PARTI Speaker Mahir Ünal: We have done it in the district, in the district, in the district, in the municipality, in the municipality." Well, well, well, well, you did it. So, do these people have a criminal immunity or immunity? What prosecutor have you filed a criminal complaint against those you've cleared? Give me an example here, one here. That's intimacy. So outside the law leads to the debate of legitimacy, which creates a debate of legitimacy. Yes, the painting, which came up with the April 16th referendum, the Constitutional amendment is illegitimate, it should discuss legitimacy, but it's fine, it's in effect, and we have no objection to that. Come, answer my question, how many AK PARTYs have you given to the prosecutor?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0065par0325	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0066par0326	We'll answer, we'll answer.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0064par0327	Give it to me, come on.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0065par0328	Mr. Eseyan...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0067par0329	Mr. President asked questions, expressing my name...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0064par0330	Yeah.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0065par0331	Go ahead, go ahead. Please, let's not afford another tease.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0334	Now, thank you for this opportunity, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0335	You're welcome.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0336	I was in the Constitutional Commission, we were in all the process together, and I remember how you guys threw water at our heads, like yesterday, but...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0337	If it happens again, I'll throw it again.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0338	You throw it away, so...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0339	If it happens again, I'll throw it again. I've done enough for anyone who swears at me. Shame on you!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0070par0340	Let's not interfere, Mr. Altay. Mr. Orator, on the stand...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0341	Your personality will lift it, you'll do it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0342	Don't mess with my personality!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0343	No, no, he'll lift it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0344	You need to warn the clerk, Mr. President, he's dealing with the person.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0068par0345	You pick it up, you do it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0071par0346	Mr. Altay, please don't interfere.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0069par0347	But the Civil Code is open.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0071par0348	Address the General Assembly, Mr. Eseyan.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0072par0349	Now, this is an important element...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0073par0350	It says, "Your individuality."
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0074par0351	Look at your own personality!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0072par0352	Don't shout. One important element: Now, CHP is making a serious mistake, which I have always expressed as a citizen who cares about CHP...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0075par0354	Yeah, don't worry about it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0072par0355	Declareing any choice you don't like is an informal attitude, which actually undermines CHP's gold. You've had that attitude, why? Because on April 16th, this country made a huge reform, and you were against it because of your status quo mentality. You lied; you tried to alarm the country, citizens, not...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0076par0356	It's coming out, it's coming out.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0072par0357	Because our citizens have common sense and you're still living in some kind of pain on that April 16th.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0076par0358	Mr. Orator, I'm afraid what we're saying is coming out.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0077par0359	The status quo is called governance with a mindset of a thousand and four hundred years. Since when did the new ones become status quo?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0078par0360	Guys, let's not interfere, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0361	Now, when you declare the election and the election system unprofitable, you actually declare yourself illegitimate...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0080par0362	Reforms go forward, they don't go backwards.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0363	...and this will strike you as an Ottoman slap in the upcoming first election.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0081par0365	What's legitimate about counting unsealed ballots?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0080par0366	The reforms don't lead to rule, they take the country forward; they take it to a more democratic, freer country.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0367	I'm warning you as a citizen. Thus, we also carry out the fight against the State of Emergency within the constitutional rights and framework. We did our own internal cleansing.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0081par0368	Show me one of your parties that you handed over to the judge.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0369	If you have information, documents, evidence, present it, and it's just him, you know, don't wave like the papers you keep waving, be serious...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0082par0370	They're all right.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0371	...come out with real documents.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0083par0372	It's all true, it's all true.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0373	Our law, our judgment is there; it will do what is necessary.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0084par0374	Even the prosecutor said it's true. The prosecutor said it's your prosecutor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0079par0375	But every time it's really a waste, it's probably the CHP's destiny, we're sad to watch. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0085par0378	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0086par0379	Those documents are all real.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0380	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0085par0381	Here you go, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0382	You're already so...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0085par0383	Please, Mr. Altay, let's turn off this polemic, and let's not challenge a new challenge.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0385	I think he's trying to be a warm, practical politician. You remind me to throw water. You did good.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0088par0387	It was ugly, but I really don't think it's you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0388	If it happens again, I'll do it again. What do you do with a mean, hurtful swearer? Did I shoot a gun?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0088par0389	There's no such thing, I was sitting next to you, there's no such thing.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0390	I heard it, I know what you said. I know what you're saying.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0088par0391	I was sitting next to you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0392	I know what you said.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0089par0393	Let's not have a conversation, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0395	If it happens again, I'll do it again.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0090par0396	You threw it out on purpose, there was no reason.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0397	Now, you have accused me of sincere, serious, status quo; I will ask you one question again, and you will have the right to answer. Consider the Supreme Election Board's election votes valid. Is it legal or not? Come on, answer me.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0090par0398	I will.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0399	Come on, it's legal with my legal knowledge. Let the whole world laugh at you. Second, why didn't you answer my question? Now, you said here: "We are still fighting the battle. You are not fighting the war." If you do, you'll come out, you'll write it down. You'll take the people you call your own people by the ear and hand them over to the prosecutor. A friend of yours told you the stock market was set up. Didn't you ask your friend, who bought what and who gave what? He's out there with money, he's in there with no money.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0091par0401	Yes, you've built a stock market.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0087par0402	Honesty, sincerity, requires a man's struggle. Where are the men you cleaned up? You've taken so many men from the mayor's office, from the mayor's office, from the mayor's office, from the mayor's office; where are they? If he's innocent, why did you take him? If he's guilty, why didn't you give it to the prosecutor? You didn't, because every time they made a statement, a lot of your people were gonna be involved.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0092par0404	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0093par0405	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0092par0406	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0094par0407	He's going to say, "There's no one in the party."
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0092par0408	Here you go, Mr. Mush.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0095par0411	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, first of all, the Republican People's Party has turned and expressed the same thing they had said from the day the referendum was held, and we have the answers against their claims. They went to the Supreme Court, where they ate rejection; where they went to the ECHR, where they ate rejection.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0094par0412	We didn't go. Wait a minute.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0096par0413	You didn't go to the ECHR.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0094par0414	We didn't go to the Supreme Court either.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0097par0415	So, we've been talking about this procedure in the House records. What we have said against these claims, what kind of decisions did the YSK have in the past period, and we have expressed them all, so once again, we will not enter into the same discussion as the EC PARTY. Another issue is about trials. These are the processes that go on in the eyes of the law. There's no way we're going to convict anyone on purpose. He'll be tried within the law, if he's guilty, he'll be punished for his crime, and if he's not guilty, there'll be an acquittal or a mistrial and a citizen's life.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0098par0418	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0097par0419	Another issue: the mayors of the EC PARTY, the changes related to the mayors of the district, the congresses at our party... why do parties hold congresses? They make changes in their administrations, mayors, mayors, there's a renewal, new friends involved, if they're tired, they get some rest. So from the day our party was founded, regularly... today, we hold the 6th annual congresses, and most of the time we've finished them. So I'd like to say that we don't think it's right to introduce something that's common as if it's an extraordinary activity. Each political party has its own congress in this framework, which is already in line with political parties. So we don't want to get into any more of these arguments. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0098par0421	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0099par0422	Mr. President, it's too short...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0098par0423	Mr. Altay, please. I'll give it to you according to 60.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0099par0426	Now, this AK PARTY could really set a record for misdirection, distortion, so it could get a degree in the world. Gee, I said, who'd object to a change in Congress? It's a natural process of business, congresses are held, the mayor changes, the mayor changes; Congress doesn't change the mayor. Mr. Speaker said: "We've cleaned up all the people in us; in the district, in the district, in the district, in the municipality." Were they cleaned up by congress? If these are the people, why don't you give them to the prosecutor? We're just saying one thing. You give it to the D.A., the law will do as it pleases. It's not like we're asking you to jump to conclusions. If they're members of the government, you're relieved of duty. You can't be the head of the AK PARTI district. But why don't you give them to the prosecutor? It's standard in this pair, that's what we're saying. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] So I said, let the AK PARTY go out and we've got these mayors, these mayors, these mayors, these mayors, we've given them to the prosecutor. That's what suits you. Based on what? That's what we're saying.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0098par0429	Yes, Mr. Altay.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0100par0430	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0098par0431	Mr. Mush, let's finish this discussion. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0100par0434	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that I'm at a loss once for Mr. Hatti to ask us for a statement by force. He can express his own opinion. Another, sir, is a unilateral declaration of will. After the declaration of will, however the law commands, parliament will meet, and a new election will be made for it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0101par0436	What kind of declaration of will?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0102par0437	He quit for no reason, there's nothing, there's no eggs, he quit.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0100par0438	Now, my dear friends, you have asked for the permission of a congressman, he left, he resigned; we voted here. Is it true? We cut him down, he quit. Now, if you guys try to look for anything to do with every resignation, we're not gonna get out of this. So, first you need to know what your resignation is, find out what it is, and I think you should know it's a unilateral statement of will. And the councils have already made their own choice. That's all there is to it, so there's no point in looking for a calf under an ox.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0103par0439	Okay, thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0104par0440	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0103par0441	Mr. Timbercioglu asked for a word. Here you are, Mr. Kerestecioğlu.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0105par0444	Of course, resignation is an institution, but if a lot of things are said about people before their resignation and they resign at the end of their resignation, especially if they resign after they've said that they had something to do with it, that they had something to do with it, that they can't get back to work, and that's enough, okay, it's over. Because there's a problem if there's really a problem when pregnant women, women, women, and women are inside, when they're fired from work with the KHK, when they can't get back to work without a proper investigation or punishment, and nobody's political wing is being investigated, okay, it's done, it's done, it's done, it's done. Quit, or it's a normal establishment.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0103par0445	Thank you. Mr. Altay, let's finish this or I'll finish this. Please... Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0106par0449	Mr. President, right now, the Republican People's Party doesn't make a man who doesn't know what resignation is. We know what a resignation is and what a resignation is, but the Mayor of Balıkesir, my family and children are being threatened. He said, "He has resigned with tears in his eyes." It's a shame! Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0103par0451	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0107par0452	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0103par0453	Congressmans, the People's Democratic Party has proposed a group...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0108par0454	Mr. President, we want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0107par0455	I won't take your word for it, for the record... No one is threatened. Those who claim to have been threatened in Turkey -- which we shared with the press at the time -- could file a criminal complaint with the relevant prosecutor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0109par0457	He can appeal to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0110par0458	So he's worried?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0111par0459	He was worried.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0112par0460	So, Mr. Altay is the deputy president of the experienced group -- there's no contribution to CHP from here, the CHP can't raise votes from here.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0111par0461	I'm not trying to get anything out of it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0113par0462	To keep you from getting hurt.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0112par0463	So these polemics don't give you any gain. You just got back from the sit-in, and I understand you're trying to pull yourself together, but not from here.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0114par0464	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0115par0465	We've got enough to decide...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit01spe0114par0469	I will submit the People's Democratic Party group proposal to your votes, and I will look for a sufficient number of decisions. All those in favor of the proposal... Those who don't agree... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit02spe0114par0001	I now open the Second Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Members of parliament, the chairman of the Finnish Parliament, Matti Vanhanen, who is visiting our country as an invitation to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and the delegation with him have now arrived to our Parliament with our President of the Foreign Affairs, Mr. Volcano Bozır. I welcome them in the name of our coven. [[Applause]] The vote of the People's Democratic Party group was not enough to vote on. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0114par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. In the second vote of the People's Democratic Party group, the decision was not enough. Now, I'm going to re-offer the proposal to your votes, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... there's enough to decide, the proposal is not accepted. Now, the Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I'm going to read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the Council of Counsellors cannot meet on Tuesday 17/4/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal and his friends proposed a parliamentary investigation on 17/4/2018 to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey (1867 rows) in order to identify and repair the victims caused by the state of emergency. lu) has been proposed to take their talks ahead of other proposals and to meet on Tuesday (17/4/2018/2018). Afyonkarahisar MP Burcu Koksal will speak on the group proposal of the Republican People's Party. Mr. Rootsal, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0116par0015	Mr. President, the valued MPs have been shut down in the state of emergency declared on July 20, 2016, hundreds of associations, foundations, schools, newspapers and so on, locking on the doors of 114 television and press-release organs and 30 publishing houses. The NGO 669 has closed military schools and thousands of military school students have been stripped of their rights without any investigation or investigation, and they have been branded fucker. They want a security investigation and a refund. They want to get back into uniforms they can't wear. Now, please, let's hear their sacrifice and do something about it. Over 120,000 civil servants were expelled from the KHK. Although about 6,000 of these public officials have received an acquittal or lack of surveillance, unfortunately, they are still unable to return to work. We warned you at the beginning of the process, don't mix the straw with the hat. The trail of the horse blends into the trail of the dog. We called it, but you didn't listen. You've officially put people out of business, not guilty, not guilty, not guilty, not guilty, not guilty. You exported thousands without waiting for the trial process. Now, those thousands of people have come with an acquittal or a non-obsession order and they want to get back to work. They've been struggling to get to you for months to make their voices heard. You have wrongfully victimized these people. I'm sorry to say that at this point today, there are thousands of people who can't go back to work, even though they've been cleared by the courts. Some of them are unemployed, some of whom are employed, others are trying to make a living with the support of their family. Sadly, it is not possible to describe their spiritual distress or sadness, aside from their financial troubles. Isn't it a pity, your conscience, that these people have been wrongfully expelled from their work? We have set up a commission for the victims of extreme condition. You say, "There is no proper decision, there is no conclusion." These people have been applying to the State of Emergency Commission for months, they haven't been able to get results, they haven't been able to go back to work in months, they want their stolen lives, they want their social lives, they want their jobs, they have their natural right. They're desperate to make their voices heard, they've come to the House many times, they've called many of you, but they haven't been able to reach them. You've been listening to these people's victims. You're playing these three monkeys as AKP; you don't see, you don't hear, you don't know. Where do you get off turning your back on the public, ignoring people's victims, ignoring people? Here's a choice ahead, the chest will come. The people you've been listening to today, hearing, ignoring, are going to bury you in the chest tomorrow, we're absolutely sure of that. Instead of hiring innocent people and victimizing them, we've cleared your party. Take the people you call your party, put them on trial first, hand them over to the prosecutors. What kind of cleaning is this? Il, we've cleared our district presidents, our city presidents, our party members. You say that, but it turns out that no one you've cleaned or claimed to have cleaned has been given to the court. We've given many examples of these, these are what we said. I say again: The Mayor of Afyonkarahisar himself confessed on the air -- an AKP municipality and a mayor of your founders, who has been the mayor for many years -- admitted that he had used municipal information facilities to the district community until April 1, 2014, when he personally attended the television program. If you say we've cleared it, hand it over to the judge, and let the judge decide. Here's what I see: you're covering up the tops and the tops and the bottoms, and you're saying, "Fuck the bottoms." And you're playing three monkeys against the victims of people. Don't worry, these people you didn't hear, the people you victimized, they're going to victimize you in the trunk. With all due respect.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0117par0022	Mr. President, I have a request for a statement according to 60.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0118par0023	Here, Mr. Mush, according to 60...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0117par0026	Mr. President, some allegations have been made here about our mayor of Afyon. I'll tell him this: he's the MP, who, in this sense, claims to press charges along with his documents and contribute to the fulfillment of this law itself, or else it's guilt, and that's this." That's not what happens when you talk about the council bench. I want him to get everything he's got on the Mayor of Afyon to the D.A.'s office.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0118par0027	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0119par0028	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0118par0029	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0119par0030	I want a say in this, too, because the right to answer is born.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0118par0031	No, it's not the right to answer, give it there." he said. Here, tell me what you're saying, the report...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0119par0033	I would like to point out in particular that the mayor has confessed to what I said in September 2016 on a television channel called Canal 3. That's why I'm saying as a lawyer -- there's no need for me or anyone else to press charges. I invite the prosecutors from here, please consider their own confessions, and at this point, please show your sincerity, I'm really cleaning up the people. If you say so, take them to the judge and hand them over.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0120par0034	That's it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0121par0035	You claim it, you apply.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0122par0036	Our struggle with ▪ is obvious.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0123par0040	Muğla MP Mehmet Erdogan will speak on behalf of the National Movement Party Group on the proposal. Mr. Erdogan, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0124par0043	Mr. President, I have made a promise on the CHP group proposal. I salute you all. Once, first of all, as we always say as the National Movement Party, I hereby curse the July 15th treacherous coup attempt again. We need to know that we are not fighting a preacher in Pennsylvania, but that we are fighting his Agha fathers. Again, we also need to know and see that we are not dealing with a congregation structure, but with a very serious intelligence structure. Of course, this struggle, really, is very difficult for the Turkish state. The most effective part of this organization, prior to the July 15 traitorous coup attempt, is our government's intelligence organization. Of course, we must first address the shortcomings of our state's intelligence structure by using this power, one by one, to address the problems at the table today. Regarding how this fight was supposed to be, Mr. State Gardener made detailed assessments of the group meetings dated January 16, 2018 and April 10, 2018. Your interested friends, Mr. President, should reconsider these evaluations. Of course, no state can operate in public who they are not sure of their loyalty to, and it's true that they shouldn't, but if there is, a mistake is set up to correct this error, which means the Commission for Review of the State of Emergency has been established, and the decisions of the Commission for Review of State of Emergency have been opened into judicial control. In the future, the judiciary will also look at lawsuits against decisions made by the Commission for Review of the State of Emergency. But here, perhaps we need to be more specific about this: an application door, an application road, which is not part of the State of Emergency Processing Commission, and which is not available to citizens who can't apply for it. In particular, military students need to be put on the table with a few dimensions. Test corruption is not only due to KPSS exams in 2010, but it is also considered to be part of the further examinations. All these military school entrance exams need to be evaluated in terms of test fraud. Every single one of these kids needs their rights, their rights, their law -- if any of them have no contact with this organization, they need to be given back their rights. Otherwise, we also feel that it would be dangerous for all of them to be given this right to be eliminated with a total process. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] It is also important to remember that administrative trial and judicial proceedings are separate and that it would not be right for those acquitted at the courthouse to be acquitted in terms of administrative procedures. He says administrative investigations must also be completed, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0125par0050	Thank you, Mr. Erdogan. Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Toğrul.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0126par0054	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have received a pledge on behalf of my party on the Republican People's Party's motion to address the victims of the State of Emergency, and I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, remember the 2015 elections. When the AKP called on the people to rejoice on the billboards. Unfortunately, after July 15th, it was not a single person who was opposed to the fight against ▪ Let the AKP go on to the Mutlaka. When AKP saw it as God's grace, they declared it a state of emergency on July 20th. The state of emergency has now become indispensable to the AKP, almost unable to do without the State of Emergency because it now lays the stones of its path to one man under the conditions of the State of Emergency. Dear friends, over 150,000 public employees have been released in this process without a single administrative or judicial procedure. The grown academics of this country who wanted peace were thrown out. In this country, more than 30 per cent of the people are currently elected by mayors and trustees have been appointed. By taking advantage of these conditions in this country, 10 MPs, including our co-Chairs, are now being held hostage. Over 100 magazines, televisions were turned off in the process; thousands of foundations, associations were shut down, dear friends. There wasn't a single forensic investigation into any of this, not a single administrative investigation. You shut it between your lips with the KHK, it's over. Dear friends, this country has become governed by an NGO regime. He's trying to take the two elections to the State of Emergency. When they declare the State of Emergency every three months, we declare it to the State of Emergency. We don't have almost one citizen who isn't affected by it now, not one citizen who hasn't received his share of the State of Emergency. Right now, any human can express his thoughts and expression on the street freely, not under the circumstances. The universities are contained, all institutions are connected to one man, and unfortunately for any of them... if these are the Fetullahists, why don't you hand them over to the judge? If they're connected to Fetullah, why don't you bring them to justice? It's not the way it is, it's not the way it is. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In the state of emergency, nothing can be democratic, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0127par0062	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, the final statement belongs to İstanbul MP Shirin Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0128par0066	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the Fetollah terrorist organization, have seen Turkish Armed Forces as an obstacle to its targets since its establishment, but, unlike other organisations, it has considered the Turkish Armed Forces not to be defeated, but to be taken over. Given the decisive role in Turkish political history, the Turkish Armed Forces have been a meaningful choice for a terrorist organisation that wants to break constitutional order and establish its own authority. The traitorous terrorist organization has included the Armed Forces in what it calls a special service unit called the "mahrem" in parallel state construction. Given the care shown by the leader and the Turkish Armed Forces, it is possible to say that they are as important to the organisation as the safety and judicial bodies. Dear MPs, the construction of the student within the military institutions consists of the phases of the student's doctrine, deployment and monitoring of military schools. The organisation specifically selects the students it will send to military schools. After entering the Turkish Armed Forces years after he had started to raise his students from the age of children, he was subjected to intensive mental training to remain faithful to him. Witness statements and captured documenting the indictments reveal the kind of education that the young people are going through. It is seen that the organization has brought up the students on the basis of absolute obedience, that the leader, Fetullah Smiley, is a memorandum and that he meets the Prophet.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0129par0068	Do you call all cadets? That's a shame!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0128par0069	Those who were brainwashed and imprisoned in a climate of spiritual fear, in cells called "hospitable houses" in childhood, have been established by depriving military institutions of their ability to question. Given what happened on the night of July 15th, it may be easier for senior officers to receive instructions from any civilian or to give a military salute to a civilian. The selected are being given examination questions from military schools and are provided to prepare them under the supervision of members of the organisation responsible for the examination. It is also investigated from the beginning by the organisation whether students carry sufficient health conditions to enter military schools.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0129par0070	Do a security investigation!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0128par0071	From the beginning of the process, members of the group, protected by such irregularities, are more dependent on the organisation, connecting the young ones he has placed in military schools with mystical arguments and a sense of gratitude, to keep the students under control in their later careers. After 1987, the Turkish Armed Forces started building cells in the Turkish Armed Forces, and since 1990, the terrorist organization became apparent among the officers and petty officers, the military academys, which were in 2000. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...from the year 2010 to the full control of military schools and Petty Officers' universities of applied sciences. We're opposite the motion. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0130par0078	Thank you. I submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Council of Counsellors has a suggestion that I'll have it read and processed and put to your votes. At a meeting of the Council of Advice 17/4/2018 on Tuesday (now), the following proposals have been approved by the General Assembly. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Justice and Development Party Republican People's Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. İz Kerestecioğlu Demir Erhan Usta Peoples' Democratic Party National Movement Party His group is acting president of the vice president group. The General Assembly's merger on Wednesday (April 18th 2018) was given in order to determine the measures that should be taken for the increase of cancer in our country (10/2746), (10/2717), (10/957), (10/262), (10/2713), (10/2680), (10/2787), (10/2745) and (10/2757) to continue to work until the completion of the talks, (10/277), (10/262), (10/272), (10/2713), (10/2787), and the importance of the National Assembly of Turkey's National Assembly of Turkey's meeting on Monday (10/2757), and the importance of the issue of the International Assembly of Turkey's 14th Assembly on Monday (10/2745), and (10/2757). The meeting at 00 was suggested that the talks at this meeting would be promised to the heads of political parties represented by Turkey's Grand National Assembly or to the heads of the group for ten minutes, and that other issues would not be discussed in this merger. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. In accordance with Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration. I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly 2/1105) I respectfully submit that my main Law Proposal, under Article 37 of the Civil Code, should be taken directly into the General Assembly's agenda. According to the Interior Charter 37, Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul will speak as the bidder. Mr. Toğrul, come in. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0131par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear friends, of course I proposed this law on April 13, 2016. At that time, or rather, according to Law 2547, the employment of researchers at universities was done in two ways: one was a staff that was partially guaranteed, as we call it: a 50/d clause, whose fate was entirely dependent on the two lips of the rectors. Of course, a third employment route was later hired as a research worker, especially as part of the Teacher's Development Programme to raise research workers to newly established universities, and was loaned to major universities to do graduates, PhDs. Dear friends, we were just discussing the victims of the State of Emergency. What was done during the State of Emergency? In fact, we've brought an offer in this law to be taken to 33/a. You have taken even those in 33/a....with the KHK of 674.....to 50/d. In universities, the most important requirement for raising a healthy scientist is guaranteed working conditions. A flexible and anxious professor has never had the chance to be productive in college. Dear friends, at this time, the president's lips are between whether or not all the researchers you have taken on the 50/D staff will take a staff or decide how to continue your academic career. Dear friends, the democratisation of universities and the autonomy of universities are not necessarily the strengthening of university administrations; vice versa, it is possible to develop control mechanisms, to incorporate all of the university's components into management. Now you see the situation that our universities have come to, the peace of work has been broken, and no one trusts anyone. So we want you to support our proposal of the law. Look, we saw what happened in Eskişehir. One person comes out, he can accuse hundreds of academics without any evidence, and they're being investigated over this indictment, some of whom are being thrown into prison and some of them are inside. Now, in a situation like this, universities have become so devoid of academic freedom that they can no longer produce science. Look, it's never right to be so involved in colleges. The arrest of the students at Boğaziçi University under a statement from the President and the arrest of them today is actually relevant to what kind of generation we want to raise. We want to teach in an environment that doesn't object, defends the government's reasonable -- official view, doesn't argue, doesn't learn, doesn't teach. It's never acceptable. Dear friends, look, in the past few weeks, the State Conservatory of Gaziantep University -- a fourth-grade student, Ismail Değirmenci -- reads at the conservatory and plays music in the evening to provide for his family -- was shot for a 50 lira tip; he was lynched and murdered by lynching. It is only by such laws that our universities can produce such insufferable, science-producing areas that are so contained - and they can grow generations that cannot tolerate each other. So we ask you, let's secure the research staff, which is the first leg of academicism, support the bill that we've submitted, and let our universities partially democratize and produce science. You have put thousands of professors in front of the door without question, and I want peace. You have scolded him and made him quit his job. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm saying none of this will ever, ever serve a scientific environment. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit03spe0132par0122	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0132par0001	I now open the Fourth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. According to the decision taken, we do not discuss verbal question motions and other audit issues, and we move to the part of the agenda of the Law Bills and Proposals and Other Affairs From Commissions. We will resume our talks with the State Waterworks General Directorate's Law on Organizations and Missions, and with the Court of Law and Law on Amendments, as well as with the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Village Affairs Report. Commission? He's in position. Government? He's in position. Members of parliament, Article 548, which was considered the main law in Article 91 of the 85th Amendment, dated April 12, 2018, was adopted in the second chapter of the Law Bill. We continue with the 21st article. There's a motion on Article 21 that I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the State Department of State Water Affairs shall be replaced in the form of the Ministry, under which the State Department of State Department of Water is in charge. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Erol Dora Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0133par0021	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0132par0022	Mardin MP Erol Dora will speak on the motion. Mr. Dora, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0134par0025	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the People's Democratic Party on the 21st amendment to the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate Agency and its duties. I salute the General Assembly. Dear lawmakers, with this clause of the bill, the declaration of the ministry is being made clear, and a technical, legal change is being made. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to continue my talk on watering units, which have been envisioned to make changes to other provisions of the bill, and which operate on the basis of State Water Affairs. Dear lawmakers, the protection of water and land is vital to the lives of all living things. Therefore, decisions on these things need to be very thorough in the laws and practices to be made, and the possible consequences to be well evaluated. However, the fundamental and controversial issues, such as massification of agricultural land, dissolution of irrigation troops and the establishment of underground warehouses in forest areas, are wanted to be brought to an end by this bag of legislation. Dear lawmakers, see, one of the key aspects of this bill is the regulations that eliminate the corporate personality of the irrigation troops and make the minimum democratic, participatory governance of these troops meaningless. As you know, irrigation troops are the institutions of farmers who have land in the watering grounds and benefit from irrigation activities. Turkey has 378 irrigation units, which have been held under YSK supervision and have almost 15,000 council members and about 1.5 million farmers. The governing bodies, such as the head of the Union, the parliamentary board and the audit board, are elected by farmers who are members of the Union. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers are now being handed over to public personnel, who will be appointed by the State Waterworks, with the understanding of antidemocratic governance, as well as to the changes intended to be made under this bill. So, so to speak, the tendency to appoint trustees will be extended to the irrigation units, and in a way, the corporate personalities of the irrigation troops are being eliminated. Honourable lawmakers are already running the irrigation troops under the principle of watering and management that participates. In the event of the adoption of the AKP government's bill in parliament and legislature, the irrigation units will become an unauthorized subsidiary of the State Water Affairs General Directorate. Even worse, irrigated troops will be led by a state bureaucrat who is not obliged to answer to farmers and who will not face any sanctions if he does not serve the interests of farmers. Dear MPs, of course, the proposed changes to the irrigation troops will not be limited to this. Clearly, in the long run, the government wants to sell money to all farmers to water their fields. Of course, as a result of these policies, the farmer borrows large amounts of money and cannot pay off his debt to the power companies that supply the water. Last month, I made it clear from this parliamentary bench that my constituency district, Mardin, power provider, DEDAŞ, left the farmers and their fields without water. The government's twisted water policies will only make the farmer suffer even more. Mr. President, good lawmakers, farming is one of the most fundamental economic production areas in a country. In this context, farming is even more indispensable for a country with large farmland such as Turkey. In our country, however, farming is rapidly diminishing, the land is quickly abandoned, and a warped agricultural policy dependent on the outside is persistently being maintained. Our people who try to resist farming are facing bank loans, executions, foreclosures. The nearest living example of this is our farmer, who poured out his milk in front of the Bank of Agriculture. Once again, the government warns the government to run agricultural policies based on production, which I hereby welcome back to the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0135par0035	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 21st article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 22: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 22 of the Law shall be changed as follows by the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate No. 548. 548. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Hilmi Maker Turabi Kayan Ali Akyıldı Verses of Table No. 488 to Mark Tax Law, dated 22 - 1/7/1964, have been changed in the form of the Watering Co-ops and the form of the Union, and the Union, which is part of the article "V-Builds" (15) of Table 488 (2). Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0136par0051	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0135par0052	On the motion, Deputy Turabi Kayan of the 40s will speak. Mr. Kayan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0137par0055	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 22 of Bill 548. Since the day the AKP government arrived, it seems to have been avenged by the term "cooperative" Whatever understanding it is, whatever behavior it is, we haven't been able to figure it out; and whoever solves it will tell us as soon as possible. We call it watering co-ops, we call it watering troops, they finally figured out a way to figure out how to destroy them. They'll connect the co-operatives and the troops to the DSI and make an appointment from there to an institution now assigned to do the work of these cooperatives, the work of the troops. Dear friends, PANKOBIRLITY, PUKOBIRLITY, EXECUTION, TARIST, TRACYABIRIC; these are the institutions they have never put their best effort to destroy until now. Dear friends, agriculture is developed by cooperatives, co-opsed by co-ops, and agricultural products are increased by cooperatives, selling foreign currency. What do we do? We're trying to privatize sugar factories, make sugar factories out of business, keep four of them shut, shut down for four or five years, reduce sugar production, buy foreign currency-based sugar and poison the people of our country. Now, in the same way, as is known, these cooperatives will be shut down and inspected by the people sent by the DSI instead of watering co-ops. Dear friends, let's see if we can increase agricultural production. When you increase agricultural production and sell it, a hundred percent of the foreign currency you receive remains in our country. This isn't industrial. When you produce and sell industrial products out, when you import half the product from the outside to produce this industrial product, you give about 80 percent of it out again. However, when you sell sugar production with the production you produce in other agricultural productions, the percentage of the foreign currency you receive from this export remains in Turkey. Now, you're trying to give this to the DSI because the irrigation co-ops can't afford it, because they can't afford it. Well, so far, he's traded in our country, done industry, or he's been encouraged, he's got an animal loan, 1,500-2. He's got a thousand-headed livestock loan, he's got a loan for industrial property, but he's stuck, he can't pay it, there's nothing for them. Their damage is put aside as the bank's damage, but the farmer's supply of irrigating comes at a time when he's exposed to the full because of nature's conditions, and when he can't pay for it, he gets on top of the farmer's head, he sells the farm. So, what's the situation with the farmer today, selling his farm? The field changes hands, the deed changes hands. Who's got it? I'll tell you, it's in the hands of strangers. Turkey is expected to support this power, which Turkey has not given its own son, nor has its own son, but unfortunately, it is expected that it will still continue by making it a backslide to foreigners. It's not just in agriculture, but since the day he came to power, look what the AKP has done. Agricultural paralysis, industrial paralysis, trade paralysis, production paralysis, election laws, paralysis, judicial paralysis, law paralysis, democracy, paralysis, military paralysis, health paralysis, education, paralysis. Dear friends, when I say education, I especially want to tell you this. Let me give you a few examples of high schools with 40larian qualifications: Imam-hatip high school, vocational technical high school, TOBB High School of Social Sciences, science high school, science high school, Lüleburgaz vocational high school and Lüleburgaz Fen High. Dear friends, for 80 years, the Kırklareli was founded under the Kepirtepe Village Institute, now known as Kepirtepe Teacher's High School... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, a moment, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0138par0067	We don't recommend it, but please finish your sentence. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0137par0069	Thank you. No eighty-year-old Kepirtepe, sixty-four-year-old Centipede High School, 60-year-old Lüleburgaz High School, thirty-three-year-old Cyclarian Anatolian High School, no 30-year-old Lüleburgaz Anatolian High School. We have an industrialist, a scientist, an artist. None of these high-value, highly valued schools are qualified schools, but five years ago, they were founded, ten years ago, they were built, they couldn't get into a healthier production, they didn't get into a healthy system. Each of these schools is qualified for school status and they only have 120 students in these schools in Lüleburgaz. What you've done with education, what you've done with industry, agriculture. Unfortunately, you've finished the training, you've finished the industry, you've finished the trial, you've finished the army, but you're giving them everything they want to look cute to keep your power going. I bid you be blessed! Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0139par0072	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and propose a change in the Union, Suction Co-ops and the expression of the Waterwater Units, Suction Co-ops, and Substitution Co-ops, to be replaced by Article No. 228 under Article 548. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0140par0084	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0139par0085	Adıyaman MP Behçet Yıldırım will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Lightning.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0141par0088	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 22nd Article of Bag Bill 548, I have made a pledge on behalf of my group, HDP. I salute the General Assembly and my dear people who are watching us on their screens. The irrigation units in this 22nd article... but I'm afraid there's no irrigation in Adıyaman, so we don't have water or unity, so I'll pass. I'm going to tell you a little bit about rural development. The aim of rural development is to maintain the existence of the rural area, reduce the difference between rural-city, provide environmentally sensitive benefits from natural resource potentials, increase participation and contributions by NGOs and local governments, and improve the standard of living in rural society. According to another more detailed definition, improving rural development, improving agricultural structures, increasing quality and efficiency in agricultural production, establishing business industry on every scale, integration of life standards and income levels, improving prosperity, reducing development between areas, regions, areas, basins, reducing agriculture, reducing agriculture, reducing productivity, integration of agricultural production with industry without cause for the abuse of existing natural resources and sustainability. But when we look at our country, it's the opposite of the government's wrong policies. Agriculture is finished, unemployment is booming, the difference between regions is increasing day by day, from rural to city, small cities to major cities cannot be prevented. You show every day with statements that 50 per cent grants will be provided for investments in various areas, such as agricultural Reform Directorate, cold air storage, silo, renewable energy, agricultural production. You're making headlines like revolution, agriculture support, but we don't know who's taking advantage of these supports and these revolutions. You say revolution, revolution, but unfortunately we don't see any revolution in the field. We know from our own community that most of those applying to the Development Support Programme have not been accepted. Is this program not for all the people of Turkey, or are you now interviewing for investments in the countryside? For the past few years, the AKP has been rejected for reasons that have no credibility, whether public or private sector or political, no matter who starts their business in the garden, no matter where they start, no matter where they start, no matter what they do, like security investigations. Only 47 of the 132 people applying for the Rural Development Investments Project in Adıyaman have been approved. On what grounds did those who did not get this approval? Look, you also banned tobacco, which is the only source of income for Adıyaman, but we're opening it up. You're putting on a show called Adıyaman. In addition to the influence of a whole of Adıyaman (Adıyaman) with the ban on tobacco surrounded by slaughter, it was inevitable that the rural areas would become poorer, more poorer, and even more nomadic. The people have not yet sold the tobacco they produced last year, but they have left the tobacco they have produced because they have been treated like marijuana and punished in various ways, and now it's time to plant tobacco seeds, which is the same thing, but our people don't know what to do about producing tobacco because we've opened it up. The tobacco you call tobacco is not open in any way. Again, we struggle with thirst in our villages, even though we have huge ponds of water for the plain villages and our huge Ataturk Dam. Their fields have been left empty, and the people who live here have also become poor, and young people have to migrate from unemployment to major cities. Our villages are almost empty now, or rather, because of your wrong policies. If you had shown the people of Adıyaman half the favor they showed you -- most of their troubles had been relieved -- you wouldn't have rejected 85 percent of the 32 projects presented to Adıyaman in the Rural Development Investments Project. This shows your view of the development of Adıyaman. When I speak of these tribulations from here, I am constantly accused of defaming Adıyaman. So let me put it this way: Adıyaman, before 2002 and after 2002, let's look at the farmer's condition, the production, the young population, the unemployment table, do I look down, or do you manage badly, and let's leave it to the discretion of the valued people of Adıyaman. You put on a show like this, and we've been unfortunately made to import everything. If we don't raid our mountains, our plains, our meadows, with HESEs, with dams, with capital companies, and if we can operate in accordance with a policy that is in line with what I count above, there is no barrier to us being in a position of a country that is self-sufficient, even exporting, I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0142par0097	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit the 22nd article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 23 of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 23 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mizgin Irgat Mehmet Ali Aslan Mehmet Emin Adıyaman The signatures of the other motion are: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Ömer Fethi Gürer Erkan Aydın Ali White Star Dursun Flower Hilmi Generator Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0143par0117	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0142par0118	Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Irgat, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0144par0121	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. I have taken a pledge on Article 23 of the bill in question. While we're really discussing this bill -- April 17th, April 16th -- I'd like to sum up the process that he entered the country about a year ago, and what we really went through over a year. Yes, there was a referendum process on April 16, 2017, but it is actually the footprints of the process that is being tried to be taken into Turkey's interior today. In fact, that's when the start of lawlessness began, but unfortunately in an atmosphere like this, we're being forced to re-prepared for an election in the State of Emergency. This is basically where we're going to try to say something in the process by discussing nature, nature, violations of the law. On this basis, I would like to reiterate that on the anniversary, we did not accept an unfair YSK coup here once again. Congressmans, since the existence of the world, nature has been seen as the source of life. Nature's sustainability, nature's relationship with nature, nature's natural laws are actually trying to create life, but today, when we look at the fifteen-year working system of AKP power, I want to repeat once again here that everyday this natural life was destroyed, this industrial environment, that the system, that ecosystem was corrupted, that every field was commercialized, that the relationship of nature, with nature, with nature, with nature, and the ecosystem had been corrupted. Human beings are not the only ones trying to get into one type, but nature is also trying to be one type. I read in a very good book -- I don't remember writing -- that it wasn't really a good thing that trees were so neat in the woods -- where he said that the rule of nature, the rule of nature, the one form of nature, and actually a slave's perspective. Today, yes, nature is being tried and tried to be single-specified with a holistic water, with its production, with its life, and it's trying to be destroyed, it's trying to open up to industrial areas, it's trying to break down genetics, and so our fields, our natural resources are being plundered. If nature has rights, if it has a constitution, this Parliament has never discussed it. I'd like to bring this up here once in a while. Just as there is no monopoly, a legal arrangement that regulates children's lives, the law of children, and unfortunately there is no legal arrangement for nature, there is no constitution. In Bitlis, my science also forbids me to go up to the plateau after the government has banned the monopoly, the understanding that forbids tobacco, and the historical heritage, which is the third most important source, today. A year ago, we're going to save the historical buildings of the governorship there, and we're going to turn Bitlis into an open-air museum with historical museums, and we're going to open it to cultural tourism. Unfortunately, yesterday, a year later, a few months later, it was forgotten. Bitlis' most important buildings are now being destroyed under the excuse of the abandoned building. So the classic system of the AKP government denies what you said yesterday today. You destroyed three important things that kept Bitlis alive - tobacco, pedestrians, livestock, agriculture - and now you're trying to destroy his historical buildings, his history. In the governor's own statement, nearly 400 civil architectural buildings are registered, when it is registered, when it is promised to save these areas, today in Bitlis, instead of restoring these buildings -- instead of restoring them, instead of bringing them back to the people -- are being destroyed, instead of making them history. There's no airport. So I'd like to repeat here that the AKP government's view of history, nature, culture is once again failing. That's basically how we don't accept this law. I want to repeat here that the bill in question must be withdrawn, that nature must be set free. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0145par0130	Smyrna MP Kamil Okyay Sindır demanding a statement on the other proposal of the same nature. Mr. Lander, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0146par0133	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the State Water Affairs General Directorate 548, and to amendments to the Constitutional Code of Law and Law. Dear friends, the clause in question is, in fact, how do I get the debt of those who owe money? Now, City Law 5393 makes the definition of the municipality exactly this: the municipality is a public official with administrative and financial autonomy, established by voters -- the president and parliament -- to meet the common needs of the community. It is a public institution, it has administrative and financial autonomy, and it is also run by the voters. Now, let's remember, a recent arrangement has been made under the name of the single treasure account, a single treasure account in the Bill of the Bill of the Bag 533 rows. This was, in fact, an arrangement in order to take over the financial structures of local governments, municipalities, municipal private administrations, and use their resources as they please. In fact, local governments also have autonomy guaranteed by the Constitution, and there was a coup on that autonomy in the 533th Bill of Law. We see that recently in municipalities, dismissals, trustee appointments, forced resignations, the administrative autonomy of local governments -- in some way by political power, by the ruling party -- are being taken under way. Now that he's had a hand in financial autonomy with a single treasure account, now that he's already in trouble, what law? On the basis of the Law on drinking, Use, and Industrial Water Trust, number 1053, it is referred to as a portion of the provinces' Bank of Provinces, which has been imposed on it, but on the basis that it has been confiscated from the central budget, it is said that the city's water money -- 25 percent of its water money -- was first proposed to our Commission, then asked by the government to reduce it to 10 percent of its share -- is also asked by the government to reduce it to more than 10 percent of its funds. It's a new blow to the back of the city. Dear friends, although Law 1053, which is related to this municipal organization, was first issued, and in Ankara and Istanbul, a law that was issued in 1968, at the level that meets the needs of these two provinces; and after that changes were made. He proposes a change in this law, but it still states that the Ministry's proposal and the Prime Minister's approval may be replaced -- still the Prime Minister's statement. Now, based on the arrangement brought in by this law, it also leads to an unjust, discriminational arrangement between municipalities. What you do is you seize the move -- specifically the move -- to seize the money, to seize the grant, to deprive the farmer of his debt, to free the farmer's debt without backing the farmer's future, to take the city's debt -- so the debt of the people will come to the municipality -- from the public -- to assign money, to appoint trustees, to make the transactions without a warrant. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm finishing. My last words, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0147par0141	Finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0146par0142	Where do we get what from, how do we get the money? Again, taking the government's money, the city's money, and transferring it to State Water Affairs... As for contractors, we give 80 percent credit guarantees; as a state, we account for how to get every cent of the city's water debt from the state budget to the private sector, to the private sector with guarantees, with guarantees of transportation guaranteed, with guarantees of public-private cooperation. Dear friends, it is clear in general that this bill will not benefit our farmers or our people or our country or the public administration. In that sense, we also express our objection to this clause. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0148par0147	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 23 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Kerestecioglu, you've entered the system. According to 60, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0149par0154	Mr. President, I've actually just seen the Minister of Family and Social Policy, and I was hoping he'd be here, but he showed up, and he was gone. However, I particularly want to ask the government: Do you really mean that you are working to encourage girls to science? Do you not support reports on this issue in the European Council? In fact, a lot of funds were taken from the United Nations for this purpose, and the whole world is trying to promote girls to science. What are we doing? Now, a very important example is asked in the book The Open Education System of Anatolia: "Which one is not more in line with the work that women do at home or will not interfere with their responsibilities at home? Do you know what the answer is? ▪ Engineerism. It continues: "The woman is often associated with the house in society.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0150par0158	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0149par0159	The house is taken over by the woman, who manages the children and runs the household -- such as food, cleaning -- and so on. Engineering is a profession that would cause a woman to lose her job. Really, I'm curious to know what the women from the AK PARTY here think.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0151par0160	He could have been an architect.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0149par0161	Who prepared that question? What misogynist man puts his own opinion on it like that? This book needs to be examined immediately, removed from the position of the person who prepared it, and in such a segregation, a person should not be employed in any areas of education. One more thing about women. What it's like to live as a citizen in Batman today, I really want to express it. All the shepherds in the area were detained after the killing of six rangers at Batman Eruhan. One of these shepherds, Ilyas Çetinkaya, is being raided on Friday (April 13th), and the door is broken down, even though he is trying to open the door - Besna Çetinkaya, the mother of Cethkaya, who is awake for the morning prayer. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I will, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0152par0165	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0149par0166	Pointed at long barrel guns, the mother is laid down, beaten, and beaten at the time that Cetinkaya was not at home, and in the same way, the pregnant wife was beaten to death in front of her two young children -- five months pregnant, a young woman -- and said: "I took kicks in my back, my stomach. There were two other children in the house, and they were terrified of what had happened. I could have lost my child. Now, what is this, really, not the law of hostility? Where do these people get that power when they kick a pregnant woman? I'd like to present this especially to you, the General Assembly. But on the other hand, Mr. President, I would like to ask you, especially, to say the same thing to this discrimination, or to encourage it to be investigated. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0153par0169	Thank you. There are two motions on the 24th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 24 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Muslüm Doğan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0154par0183	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0153par0184	İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak on the motion. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0155par0187	Mr. President, before I speak, Mr. Salim Nice is here, and I'd like to ask our deputy. This is a temple used as a camisole by the People of Alevi in Çorum Osmancık. Congressman, there's been an imam assigned here, and it's very wrong. I know you're sensitive, and I expect your attention, and I need this imam removed immediately. Dear lawmakers, we are faced with a bill containing changes in many different issues, such as gathering farmlands, setting up underground warehouses in forest areas, dissolution of water troops and transfering powers to the DSI. Your understanding of what happened has got to stop. No draft law, which does not include the opinions of professional rooms, which does not include civil society, does not provide university support and academic support, should pass through this parliament. This bag of laws is completely contrary to the spirit of democracy, which, unfortunately, remains to be learned. What is it to be done with understanding that the will of the House has failed? Won't you stop until you've exhausted every resource in this country? Your goal is to turn this country into a country that can't be farmed, completely dependent, inflation at terrible levels, where foreign currency sets a record every day? I congratulate you, indeed, that there is no science left because of you, neither agriculture nor livestock; inflation has reached double digits; there is nothing left to buy; the workers and workers have no smile; the citizens, students, women on the street, no one is happy; the farmer's farm country is crying blood. Dear lawmakers, this is the work of 16 years of AK PARTY power. According to TÜİK data released last year, Turkey has lost about 8.2 per cent of agricultural land planted in the last decade, and 5.22 per cent of all agricultural areas; 5.22% of agricultural land is valued lawmakers. The loss of agricultural land is greater than 87 countries in the world. I'm talking about more farmland than the land of countries like Lebanon, Kuwait, Senegal. So, this is where AK PARTY's power brings the country to agriculture. Is this how you're going to make our farmer, our manufacturer smile, by gathering the land, by seizing the fields, vineyards, and means by force? In the early years of the Republic, the agricultural sector, which was around 40 per cent in the national economy, fell to 36 per cent in the 1970s, 25 per cent in the 1980s, 16 per cent in 1990, and 8.9% in 2013. According to TÜİK data, a significant portion of Turkish exports were made up of agricultural and animal products in the 1980s, while in 2015 the rate was reduced by 3.7 per cent. As of 2018, it is also stated that it has fallen to 2.6. During your 16 years of political power, you've turned it into a country that takes an important self-sufficient agricultural country and imports hay. You've created agriculture based on pharmaceuticals, fertilizers and hormones that have been developed and turned into Rantfields, contaminated by industrial waste. You destroyed productive farmland with highways, highways, mining activities, dams, unplanned, unplanned projects. Now with this bill, you've cleared the way for the water to be commercialized. Natural areas, habitats, land, mechas, unfortunately, are at the mercy of capital. Dear lawmakers, all of these interventions mean the destruction of the ecosystem and also the end of livelihood agriculture and animalism. I would like to warn you once again about the power and all its representatives: give up the agricultural policies that are in the center of looting and plundering, protecting the interests of capital. Do not open the agricultural fields to any more zoning, to the city. Let's work overtime to promote organic agriculture, explore the possibilities of this country becoming a major agricultural country again. Let's not waste this country's resources on concrete, construction, nuclear energy, privatisation. Let's send back this bill by hand, which gives the land of small manufacturers to corporations, giving their water resources to capital. I say we all do a new study, including pluralists, civil society and universities. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0156par0197	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0157par0198	We want a sufficient number of decisions.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit04spe0156par0199	I'll call. I submit the motion to your votes, and I will seek the number of decisions that are sufficient: those who accept... those who refuse... There's not enough of a decision. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0156par0001	I now open the Fifth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. The decision-making vote of İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan and his friends was not enough. Now, I'm going to submit the motion to your votes again, and I'm going to look for enough to decide. All those in favor... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. There's enough to make a decision. We continue the talks of Bill 548. The commission and the government are in place. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 548 of State Water Affairs General Directorate 548 in the following manner, under which Article 2/4 of the Dair Bill shall be changed in accordance with the Law on the Offices and Missions of the State Water Affairs. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Levent Gök Hilmi Maker Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Ali White Star Hayati Tekin Dursun Flower The procedure and the basis for the fees paid by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is determined by visitors who come to these locations except those who live in the existing settlements. Those who have been identified as entering without paying their entry fee in the law run by the Ministry of Forest and Water Affairs are fined twice the amount of administrative fine specified in the first joke of this clause by the Department of Forests and Water Affairs. Introduction fees and administrative fines mentioned in the second joke of this clause are paid to the subject within a month of the day of the notification. Unpaid entry fees and administrative fines are monitored and collected by the IRS, according to the Law provisions, dated 21/7/1953, and issued on Amme's Collector's Collectives Act 6183. The disadvantaged ones, students, disabled ones, pensioners, working families, and civil servants who need to be protected socially do not receive a fee. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0158par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0156par0020	It's Samsun MP Hayati Tekin who wants to speak on the motion. Mr. Tekin, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0159par0023	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, I have made a pledge on behalf of the CHP group on Article 24 of the Law Bill 548, with respect to the High Assembly. As you know, we're facing a new bag of legislation. In addition to the 24th article here, the procedure and the basis for the fees paid by visitors to the entrance control centers or visiting centres within the fields are determined by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs. Those who don't pay the entry fee are also referred to as... ten times the amount of fine. As for those who did not pay the fine within a month, the tax office concerned is authorized to follow and collect according to the Law on the Collectives of Amme Area 6183. Another article of the Law on the Collectives of Amme Acquisitions 6183 -- scarier -- requires evidence of bankruptcy and bankruptcy to get rid of these sentences. It's almost the death penalty. If the areas rented from national parks are to be paid, that money must be earned first, so it must be invested in. What the ministry needs to do is do the comprehensive, environmental-friendly project by the Ministry, then take the tender for production, then check it out by the National Parks, and then complete the construction process, or rather, become the facility. Prices should be reasonable, too. Otherwise, there will be areas where you use concrete and cover it with bark, use metal, paint it with wood color, where toilets flow with septic instead of cleaning. During my own mayoral term, the Samsun Bayraktepe Nature Park area, one of which I have lived in the national parks, and the other one is the first-degree site of Samsun Tekeköy Caves, which is larger than the nature park. In my profession as an architect, considering the social classes as a village child, I have not served from here, in my time as an architect, nor from the entrance of the WC, nor from the mosque, nor from the social facilities, because these areas are usually, the most -- the low economic picnics are flocking -- economically, with low income levels. You find 100 people in these areas, where at least a thousand people come every day, especially when the weather gets better with the spring. Why do you find 100 people? Because he didn't consider the poorness of the law and the income of the citizens, and the customers of these areas are poor; they're not the ones who count for £1, £1 million, which is 15 million, like the heads of the royal family. According to AKP's capitalist view, this could be normal. The customers of these areas are usually people who calculate the end of the month, who come here with TOFAS, with Renault. The fee for Samsun Bayltepe Nature Park was zero in my time, while it was painful with the AKP. Subject is $3, bicycle is $3, motorcycle is $6, motorcycle is $9, car is $27, van is 45, bus is 72 lira, WC 1 lira; restaurant is already burning hands, stake brand. I asked for the price list to talk about it, and they said: "The price list has changed." I called that friend: "What is it?" The dollar's up. Talk about a raise. Subject 3.5; motorcycle 7 lira, car 11 lira, van 32 lira, midibus 52 lira, bus 84 lira; let's pray here. Turkey averages 7 liras for individuals, 2,250 lira for weddings, which means the bride and groom will be separated by 10 times as many. Now, based on the AKP mentality, we ask: "Aunt Fatma, Uncle Hasan, where are you going?" (No, you're going to lie at the bottom of the tree, you're going to be shaded, you're free; you don't eat, you don't eat, you don't. Go to the bathroom, relax, it's free; it's not free. What's going to happen? Pray you, we don't get paid to watch the sky. Especially when you want to get paid for 2019. Let's get this king, and then you'll pay for the water, the bird's voice, all of it. If you don't have money from the citizen, you'll see it in the paintings of the king. When I look at the average of all time, we still pray. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The election was lifted from 2019, and your partner averaged August, possibly September. Give up these fees at once, otherwise your last chance, your execution will come to pass. Thank you, and I'll pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0160par0036	Thank you, Mr. Tekin. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 24th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are three motions on the 25th article, which are of the same nature, that I read and process. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 25 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Nihat Akdoğan The signatures of the other motion are: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Kamil Okyay Sındir Omer Fethi Gürer Ali Akyıldı Hilmi Maker The signatures of the other motion are: Muharrem Varlı Mustafa Mit Fahrettin Oğuz Tor Baki Simsek Ruhi Ersoy Mevlüt Karakaya Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0161par0061	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0160par0062	Hakkari MP Nihat Akdoğan will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Akdoğan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0162par0065	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on my party's 25th amendment to Bill 548. On this occasion, the General Assembly welcomes my esteemed co-Chairs and fellow trustees, held hostage in prisons. Dear friends, what happened today in Turkey, along with a full year's referendum a day before that? A day has passed since its year's completion, but what has been revealed is the launch of the new election process. Referendum and elections are democratic practices of essence and meaning. But in countries with problems with democracy, this situation is a bit of a nuisance. First of all, if you look at what happened on November 1st, to us and to our party, to our chosen friends, to our institutions, to our institutions, in fact, how they wanted to eliminate the obstacles to this process, the April 16th referendum: First, the appointment of trustees to 94 of our municipalities. Look, it's been over a year and a half since that day, and there's no corruption in one of our municipalities. If there was, why didn't they share it with the public today? We're coming after him on November 4th. 12 of our friends, including the co-Chairs of our political party, were not arraigned for six months because there was a demand. All the friends in the districts, all the cities that were going to block this referendum, had to be locked up. However, at the April 16th referendum, 82 per cent of the city centre had asked more than 90 per cent of the districts to account for this. Here we come again, in the State of Emergency, a country wants to be taken back to an election process. We say: "If you are confident, then remove the State of Emergency, and let people conduct free elections. If it had been left to the public's preference in the April 16th referendum, if it hadn't been for an argument about its legitimacy, we might have been somewhere else today. Look, today the European Union announced its draft report. In this draft report, the State of Emergency measures are disproportionate. Is anyone listening to this? No. The State of Emergency must be removed as soon as possible. Let's see if the government will remove the State of Emergency before the election. At the same time, the pressure on the judiciary must be lifted. The draft report of the European Union states that the referendum on April 16 is contrary to the separation of forces. I'd like to say one more thing, especially in a situation like this, the press is in your hands, the judge is in your hands, the police are in your hands. One of the last castles you tried to capture was the press, journalists inside. Release the journalists. Release the politicians. Hold on to our co-Chair who's in there, release all of our other co-chairs, and then say, "Hodri square!" Say, "Go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, say, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go on, go I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0163par0075	Thank you. Nüğde MP Ömer Fethi Gürer will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Mr. Gürer, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0164par0079	Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, the Justice and Development Party, they haven't done any good work for farmers in 15 years, and they won't. The farmer, the manufacturer, it's a mess. In Niğde, in Nevşehir, when I left for the weekend, the potatoes in the warehouse were freckled, and began to rot. The government is watching, and it's not working out. And the bag bill that we've been talking about doesn't bring in any arrangement to benefit the farmer, the forest peasant. The owner's approval of the land collection is now in effect. Troubled massing makes it even more problematic. Farmers are driven to chaos by the protection of goods, protection services that are optional. The farmer's debt must be cut without supporting it. The irrigation water is indirectly privatized. The irrigation troops are being taken from the farmers' administration. However, forest areas are sacrificed in the Ranta, which is not useful in its preservation as a forest in science and science. Under the forest, underground warehouses open the door to the destruction of the forest. Then a letter is sent to the villages by the Ministry, signed by Mr. President. Let's build a greener Turkey together. The letter contains seeds. The villagers are asking where they're going to plant these macaroon seeds, because they're in a corner of the coffee that they're sending while they're describing nothing growing in areas that have been removed from the forest property that have been opened to the Ranta. And since there's no knowledge of the planting technique about it, the seeds sent to the forest are not evaluated, but, Mr. Secretary, I'm going to show you something. This is the chestnut tree in the village of Balci in Niğde. There's only one chestnut tree in Niğde, outside of what's been described as a chestnut, this chestnut tree has appeared on the rock. So the seed grows inside the rock, Minister. So come, don't open the forest fields. On the other hand, my countrymen have asked me to bring this bill up when it's being discussed. Darker, Armless, Himmetli, Barekel, Badger, Kilen, Darsuk, Orders, Apples, Watering Water, Lake Troubles continue. The rye, the Obelisk wells are closed due to their debts, the Misli Plains are subterranean water power costs, the farmers are for execution, but Mr. Minister, you sent them to Niğde. Did you send them with all of them in Turkey? I wonder how much postal money you gave me. You're saying that we've solved the drinking water issue at last. But there's no data that they've solved Niğde's drinking water problem. Why not? Currently, Niğde drinking water is being removed from 65 wells, some of which are not being used due to the risk of arsenic. There's a drain going down in the well waters, there's a decrease. The drinking water is also unresolved in the nation. But the Ministry did a project, according to the contract of Niğde and Aksaray Provinces planning the drinking process and Project Productions, the end date is 31/12/2021. The project will be tendered after its work is completed." He's trying. Where this water will come from, the Aladağs, the waters from the spring of Ecems. So, when did the study begin? It started in 2000. It's been spoken of since 2000, it hasn't happened. For these waters, we have now solved the matter of drinking water at last." The brochures are sent to Niğde. Besides, there's Akkaya Dam; environmental disaster for Niğde. For years we've been talking about the Akkaya Dam, where the water here is being watered down into the agricultural areas, and unfortunately the water is too polluted to even enter into the pollution. The smell of this water that was used in the fields of agriculture surrounded Niğdeh, Bor. And the university that was with him. There's talk of the project all the time, and because of the endless projects, human health is at risk. In short, I don't know how many thousand copies of the brochure that was sent to Niğde saying that the drinking water problem was over, but it had nothing to do with Ulukish's Hasangazi village, which had nothing to do with Niğde's drinking water. We are investing in Turkey's future as well. The brochures have been sent. Minister, how many thousand of these pamphlets have been sent? How much stamp money was paid? At the expense of this, if you had rented a piece of land there, planted pine trees there, we'd have a forest area, I salute the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0165par0085	Mr. Omar, there were seeds in the envelope to plant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0164par0086	There's no land to plant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0165par0087	We'll send it to you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0164par0088	Minister, there's no land to plant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0166par0089	Adana MP Mevlüt Karakaya will speak on the final motion of the same nature. Mr. Karakaya, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0167par0092	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group regarding the 25th amendment of the proposed bill. I salute you all. Article 25 is a clause that abolishes the second sentence of Article 17 of Article 2873 of the National Parks Act. This material carries the title of the additional capital revenues, and the incomes that will be obtained in these areas that are subject to this Law are recorded in return capital of the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs. The following statement states: This is income, which is used in financing the needed goods, services and investments, according to the Law. The reason for this change is that return capital revenues from protected areas can be used more efficiently, he says. In fact, I've had a little difficulty understanding this because when we look at the sentence, it says that the required property, services and investments will be used in financing, which will be earmarked for this. Our reason to remove this sentence is said to be that revenues from here will be used in more efficient areas. So what's more efficient than the need for goods, services and investments? In fact, I really think if Mr. Secretary makes a statement about this, we'll understand it better. Dear lawmakers have been criticised by our group spokesman as the National Movement Party for the restructuring of irrigation troops, particularly from here, regarding the irrigation troops. In fact, with this bill, the assembly of watering troops, the boards of directors are being annulled. About those who failed, it's true, we agree with what was said in the reports of previous audits by the DSI, but we also know that a significant part of these reports refer to them as successful. The fact that this model of unity was the property of the nation, and that it was also important for efficiency in a way that was related to that sector, which we, as the National Movement Party, called the national sector. Dear lawmakers, especially one of our most important problems with the agricultural field is that we may be expressing many problems, many problems of agriculture, but it's an important area of business that we don't mention. We're always talking about the smallness of agriculture, agricultural enterprises here, but we're not talking about this reality, the business models that can be used to overcome this structural problem. For example, we do not want co-operativeism to be a structure that suits our culture and can lead to better, more efficient outcomes, or the universities to work on these models. Again, in the same way, we should have concentrated or increased models of clustering or unity styles in agriculture, in the field of agricultural enterprises, but unfortunately, we're rerouting it back from the nation sector to the state sector by sending it back. Minister, I'd like to bring one thing to your attention immediately. In fact, they wanted me to bring this up because the troops are being removed, but they were founded by 11 village chiefs and their establishment was not approved by your counterparts, but they were not given the authority; and then this unit was dissolved, and today, along with this law, will be gone. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] In this new administration, we really want to create a model of purpose by paying attention to these kinds of things in the new management model. I salute your high council again.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0168par0101	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 25th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. Mr. Goody, you've entered the system, it's a reference to you in the previous conversation. I promise you your position according to 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0169par0109	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Müslüm Doğan had just spoken, and I immediately examined, and received information from his place, and from his friends. It's a matter where public opinion is very sensitive, so public opinion may misunderstand, and I've felt the need to make this statement so that I don't have the opportunity to give these misunderstandings. It is this: Mr. Doğan stated that the shrine was turned into a mosque, which is certainly not true. Because I brought pictures, and the shrine is 8 to 10 square meters, and half is just a crate. As you can see, there are mayors of CHP and AK PARTY. We've gone, we've studied its location, there's absolutely no way the shrine is a mosque. There's a mosque down there, down there, much lower down there, where it's a soup kitchen and it works as a soup kitchen. Since there has been no demand as a soup kitchen for many years, it has been taken over as a mosque to meet the need for mosques in the neighborhood. I wanted to make that statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0170par0112	Thank you. There are two motions on the 26th article: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 26 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate 548 which is currently in session with the Law on the Offices of the State Water Affairs, and the amendment of the Law on the Decisions of Some Laws. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Veli Agha Stop Flower Hilmi Generator Eren Erdem Ali Akyız Okan Gaytancıoğlu ADDDE 26-13/10/1983 and the first joke (b) of Article 71 of Highway No. 2918 (b) has been added to the description of vehicles that went and fought in the forest fires. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0171par0129	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0170par0130	Malatya MP Veli Ağbaba will speak on the motion. Mr. Agha, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0172par0133	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Dear friends, Mr. Secretary, I've been a MP since 2011, and I'm sorry to say that whatever I talked about in 2011, I'm going to talk about the same things and I'm going to talk about it today. I became a new MP in 2011, visited Malatya's villages, towns, same problem, same problem, same problem. Dear friends, many of you may know that Malatya is one of Turkey's most important agricultural cities. The soil is fertile, the people are hardworking, the air is good, so whatever you sow grows in Malatiah. Malatya is probably the head of the cities in Turkey that produce the most diverse products. Not only Turkey's most beautiful apricot is produced in Malatya, Turkey's finest walnuts are produced in Hekimhan. I'm allegedly saying: Turkey's most beautiful cherry is produced in Greenyurt. His beans, strawberries, diamonds, tobacco grow in Doğanşehir, and his pear in Akçadağ, and his melon in Arguvan. Köhnü grape is in Arabgir, pepper is in Arabgir. He is being exported to the world, Turkey. The irrigation water, which you have served as the ministry of the unresolved problems of Malatya, head of the provinces that have contributed so much to the country and Malatya economy, which have contributed so much to Turkey's economy in terms of agriculture. Mr. Secretary, our biggest problem, our biggest problem, Malatya's biggest concern is agricultural irrigation. Look, last Sunday, Saturday, I was in the writing. You know, there's a Boztepe, which started in 1997, which is the Recai Kutan Dam, which was completed in 2012. I've told you over and over, but there's still no irrigation channels. Look, the dam is being built -- like a Black Sea joke -- forgotten to build a irrigation channel. Now, right now, the left coast is being watered, but I'm afraid because of the pipes that exploded from that pressure, the Yazhan is in a very difficult position. Mr Veysel Eroglu, you signed the contract. It was supposed to be completed at 4:59 p.m. on June 2, 2016, which unfortunately wasn't completed, the Boztepe irrigation channel was not completed. If it is not completed -- you have signed -- a school will be built at Yazihan district centre. You said, "But there is no irrigation channel, nor the foundation of the school has been established." The crops in all the villages in Yazhan are about to dry out, unfortunately, about to burn. Mr. Secretary, Malatya is suffering from thirst, the region is suffering from dehydration. Every area is the same. Do you know what kind of measures the state is taking, Mr. Secretary, what kind of measures the state is taking? The government is gathering all the bureaucrats in the community to pray for rain. So this Ministry's incompetence is being transferred to Allah to try to resolve it. Let him be prayed, but please do your duty. I wish the watering problem was only in Yazhan district of Malatya. Dear friends, Malatya's main problem in summer is dehydration. You know, Malatian chiefs, farmers, every summer they knock on your door. In every region of Malatiah, people rebel out of thirst. In front of their eyes, they're building apricot trees where they look like their children. Battalgazi, Alisar, Hatunsuyu, Dilek, Topsuküt, Şahnahan, Görene, Eyş, Karapınar, Exampleköy, Gölpınar, Akçadağ, all the villages of Akçadağ have the same problem. The Malatian manufacturer is so desperate that the valued lawmakers, please listen carefully, so that the apricot trees don't dry, the Malatian farmer breaks the sewer pipe and waters it. Look, once again, he's watering the drainpipe by breaking it. What's the government doing? Veli Agha is coming, singing on the stand. This is the state's measure: it's going, it's blocking the sewer pipes because Veli Ağbaba told it to. He hasn't been able to find any way to solve the water. Sadly, the entire Malatya is suffering from a irrigation problem and the Malatian is being severely victimised. According to some figures, millions of apricot trees have to be cut down every year due to dehydration. Dear friends, another matter, the water that the Second Organised Industry spilled, unfortunately, regrets the planter in Malatya. Now in Dilek, and in Shahnahan, and in Topsudüt, they can't plant any more. Because those waters, unfortunately, destroy agriculture in Malatya's finest lands. I'm short on time, and I'd like to say a few words about the Chip Dam. You are the bearers of good news about the clover. It started twenty-two years ago, every year there are tenders, every year the MPs go, and Arguvan gives great big news, but Arguvan continues to be disciplined with thirst. And then there's this HES thing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] If you don't object to these HES, the Malatian farmers will have two hands on you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0173par0146	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to request and recommend that the vehicle in the fight against forest fires be extinguished and replaced by auxiliary vehicles, which are expected to be added to the 1st joke (b) of Route 2918 and Article 711 of the Law on Highways. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0174par0158	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0173par0159	Van MP Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan will speak on the motion. Mr. Özce Ertan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0175par0162	I salute the General Assembly. Dear friends, as in this bill, when we do this much human intervention in nature, of course, with ecosystems and ecosystems first, all humanity, all people and citizens, of course, and even unborn babies. We're polluting the environment, our forest assets, our streams as much as we can, and we're destroying them day by day. Here are the most burning specimens in the district of Dilovası and Ergene River basin. It is almost impossible not to have cancer in Dilova today. Mr. Onur Hamzaoglu, who is now a prisoner -- I salute him from here -- years ago, he proved environmental pollution in Dilovasi and the harmful substances causing cancer in the light of scientific principles, and advised the authorities to take precautions, but instead of developing the necessary policies in this framework, they filed lawsuits against Onur Hodja. Then you have to ask: Is there no more industrial pollution in Dilova, or is there any more than three and a half times the pollution that should have occurred in Dilova from that day on, or has the material that has caused the growth of cancer been removed from the air there, or is it not in the milk of single mothers, or is there no more harmful pollutants found in the babies carried in the wombs of those mothers? Did the people who built the industrial facilities that led to it, the local executives and general managers that allowed it to happen, answer to them? The answer to all these questions is a big no. What's real is that a person who has made science a principle of his own is locked up on baseless claims, babies are born asthmatic, tumors and cancers increase, and the Ministry of Health doesn't even have the courage to explain the consequences of his work on this subject. Dilovasi is a result of AKP's uncontrollable industrialisation policy, which is now known as cancer. As a matter of fact, it is not a new case when cancer rates reach 35 percent. Enter Parliamentary records, a parliamentary research commission was established in 2006 and a number of decisions were made due to the appearance of cancer cases in Dilova. These decisions suggest that the pollution of the industry in the region should no longer increase in cancer cases; in the first place, the region should no longer be allowed to build new industries, and in the present, necessary measures should be taken. However, none of this has been done, and it has been openly violated by the Constitution, which clearly has been committed and continues to be committed during the time of the crime. Everyone has the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment. But we, unfortunately, deny the people of Dilova that right. Members of parliament, another place sentenced to cancer as much as the people of Dilova is the Ergene River basin. The Ergene basin, which should be the lifeblood of Tekirdağ, Cırklareli and Edirne, is unfortunately carrying cancer to the people of the region due to the waste produced by about 2,000 industrial plants in the basin. Thracia's fertile farmland is watered by the river's dirty water, causing the region to be the most common place for cancer throughout Turkey. In these two regions, the government, instead of giving deterrent punishments to institutions that cause pollution, death, even unborn babies who have asthma, instead of developing policies to protect public health, it imprisons and expels conscientious people who detect the problem, or expels it. Here's Dr. Dilek Tucer at Ergene's Basin, where there's an example of Onur Hodja in Dilova. Dr. Dilek Tucer said that due to the pollution brought by the Ergene River in 2014, the use of these waters in agricultural areas could be transferred to nutrients due to the presence of prekanserogenic substances, and cancers related to them increase and increase. As a matter of fact, the data already supports that claim. In response, however, the Governor of Edirne removed Dr. Dilek Tucer from his post in a hurry. Public officials prefer to conceal the facts, cover up the facts, and let the people of this country have cancer, rather than investigate the explanation of a doctor who says that there is a risk of cancer in rice that grows in the region and all Turkey eats.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0176par0167	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0175par0168	My last word, Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0176par0169	It would have been nice if you'd said your last sentence in the first place, but I'll turn on the microphone, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0175par0170	Thank you. Members of parliament, the situation facing the hands of industrial institutions in Dilova and Ergene is no longer an environmental problem. There are clearly environmental disasters in these areas. Unless the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs take action, as long as the industrial facilities that are polluting Dilova and Ergene have paid the most severe costs, it will no longer be possible to save these areas soon, and unfortunately, as long as these policies continue, there will be new Ergenes everywhere in Turkey, new Dilovas will be formed, cancer will be a fate for the people of this country, and I respectfully salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0176par0173	Thank you, Mr. Ozky Ertan. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 26th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on the 27th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 27 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Erdal Atash The signatures of the other motion are: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Haluk Pekşen Dursun Çiçek Hilmi Yakan Gektancıoğlu Omar Fethi Gürer Tur Yildiz Ali Akyıldız Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0177par0193	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0176par0194	İstanbul MP Erdal Atash will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Paperman, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0178par0197	Mr. President, valuable lawmakers, this bag of legislation has a significant interest in agriculture. As is known, agriculture is one of the most important areas of production and life in human life, and there is also a lot of historical experience in operating plants and animal products on earth. The formation of the world, based on agriculture, brought with it the very wealth of products above the world, but particularly the mention of five or six countries in the form of a much richer agricultural country, as they are geographically. Here is our country, at the point of agriculture, one of the most important countries in ten countries -- which we call the middle generation -- Mexico, America, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Turkey, and further, China. In our country, there are 75 of the 138 types of fruit found on Earth, so there are these. Sixty-six of 80 vegetables are produced in our country, and many of them are home. In terms of animal production, it is also one of the countries that host a significant number of areas -- small, bee, fish, and so on -- in many areas. But it turns out that because of the wrong policies, our country has become a country that imports agricultural products from the outside. In particular, the pro-capitalism, the anti-employment policies that AKP has implemented during the 15-year process, have brought our country to a level of zero at the point of agriculture today. Seed, studry, all the other issues, our country has become an externally dependent country. I mean, we weren't in the position of a country that was so dependent on the outside even during the half-feodal period. Governments, such as the AKP, which supports and enters our country, have destroyed all areas of agriculture at the plant and animalism point, three or five monopoly-wise. In 15 years, $100 billion in seeds were taken from the outside. So all the products in our country are connected to the outside. Tomatoes, cucumbers, watermelons, potatoes, cabbages, whatever we can think of, all of these seeds have become dependent on the outside in the form of corporations with four or five monopolyes. Almost all the seeds are in the hands of these three or five monopolyes. It's not just seeds and studry, but all of the other products that have been found, have been taken from the outside. Cows are taken from the outside, bait imported from the outside, hay imported from the outside. Again, in the same way, 6 tons per day are normally tried to import 4 million tons more meat per year by raising it to 10 tons. Whatever we think of animal products, fish or bee matter, you mean cattle, small animals... So let's keep all of these products from cheese to all of the other products, all of these are being taken from the outside, becoming imported. These are not the only ones in our country, so taking all kinds of corn, lentils, noodles, wheat, processed fruits and vegetables from the outside in an agricultural country is actually the result of the policy. In line with the need for money, even the sugar beets are being sold in a way that attracts monopoly after monopoly. Let's go to the malls. In almost all of the malls, go to all the food departments, clothing departments, cosmetics departments, wherever you can think of, you won't find a name outside of three or five companies. A whole sense of agriculture, which has been completely in their hands, has, unfortunately, become the reality of our country. We've become an 80 percent external-dependent country. In the same way, the loans began at the point of loans, especially at the Bank of Agriculture, not at the farmer's end, but at a policy, in a way that supports the supporting newspapers and others. To this day, farmers have only been given... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, one more minute to complete...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0179par0205	Okay, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0178par0206	Thank you, Mr. President. And so far, the Bank of Agriculture has given them the rights of farmers at only a third of the time, while the Bank of Agriculture and other banks have supported farmers so far, so they've lost $200 billion; they'll give it to the newspapers and others. It's also diesel, it's the others, it's the most expensive it's being offered to the farmer in our country. According to income elsewhere, this issue is given at a discount in the case of almost 50 per cent. This understanding, which victimises farmers and workers, which continues this policy with hostile policies, has, unfortunately, destroyed the agricultural area in our country with a pro-capital attitude. Likewise today, along with the laws of the past, including this bag of legislation, steps have been taken at the point of completing the farmland, waiting for more poverty, more starving workers and farmers. Which is why I say the right step to take is to get this mentality out of our heads, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0180par0210	Libzon MP Haluk Pekşen will speak on the other proposal of the same nature. Mr. Pekshen, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0181par0213	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers -- I mean, if we were to count the notes that the AK PARTY had fallen into Turkey's political history, my life wouldn't be loyal, but let me tell you about a few of the most important ones. You know, we have a place called Bozburun, we have a town. There's not a tree planted in Bozburun, not even one weed's finished, but it's forested. Your ability to make a forest is not limited to one Bozburun. In Istanbul, for example, our Aunt Fadime's field has become a forest, and the potato field has become a forest. Aunt Fadime took the deed, ran to the administration. Ya, this is my property since grandpa, brother, what forest? This is the field where I've been planting potatoes for years. He said, "But the Forest Minister has passed the forest cadastro, my brother. Get well soon." Aunt Fadime's potato field is a jungle, so Aunt Fadime goes to court, wins the case, wins the case, comes to the Supreme Court, breaks the Supreme Court. Aunt Fadime went to the European Court of Human Rights, and the European Court of Human Rights, Yahu, is there a forest in the potato field? How did you come up with that? He said it and broke it. But this time, the Ministry of Forest has changed regulations again, and he's obsessed with Aunt Fadime's field. He's been deeding Aunt Fadime's farm for himself, but he's filed a lawsuit. It's a forest. Now the experts are out there looking for microscopes and grass, and they can't plant potatoes anymore, Aunt Fadime, and if they find the grass, there'll be forests. It's not finished, especially in my hometown, in the Black Sea, where they've made all the nut gardens into forests. They built a forest where they told the citizen that this is not a forest, it's selling. Who? Treasure. The forest lost its quality, not its place of forest, but it is for sale. The citizen came, entered a contract, bought, and planted nuts on it. And then the forest came, and he said, "We've made a cadastro, we're writing this in the forest." So, OK, give me the money that I bought, and it's a forest. So, if you've changed your view, give me my money, take it. They said there's no forest, there's no money. They took the property of the citizen, they registered the forest again. Guys, really, there's no other example of this in the history of human history of growing forests. You know, they say they put pictures on these huge billboards, we built this many forests. They claim the potato fields as forests. The fields of Egypt were declared a forest in Adana, in Osmaniye. They claim the Black Sea's nut gardens as forests, but in reality, none of them are forests. They've come up with a method that's awesome. Now, look, they're going to be on their way to Tripoli, they're going to have to make a publicization decision, they have to nationalize the place of the citizen. But they found the method, why would they give money to a citizen? They're giving it to the citizens anyway. The chief tells it from there, the citizens vote it, so it's okay, they're doing fine. They say we've found a way to get the land out of the town for free. What if we apply the 18th article of the Emancipation Act there, we take 40 percent of it away for free. I wanted to go for a ride with the Minister of Pineburnu. I've invited you a few times. Come and see your work at Pineburnu! Let's cut the ribbon together. If your conscience will allow you to cut that ribbon, I am ready, Mr. Secretary. Unfortunately, it didn't. We have a place called Longgöl, which used to be famous for its red-scale trout, I assure you, not even frogs live in the lake now. It's a work of art. The Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs is in no way engaged in the problems of the poor, the poor, the citizen. Look, what are they busy with? Let me give you an example of 21,618 hectares in Gökova, so that my dear citizens can understand, 27,000 forest areas the size of a football field are now open to tourism, development. That's it, that's it. That's why the Entity Fund was established. These have been placed in the asset fund, and who knows which countries will receive funding from it, and the citizen, unfortunately, will continue to pay electricity money, water money, gas money in that interest helix around his neck. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me. Your tolerance is too high today, I'd like five minutes.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0182par0221	Here, finish it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0181par0222	Thank you. This weekend, I was in Osmaniye yesterday. I asked Mr. Minister here last week, he didn't answer, and now I'm going to ask him one more time, and I hope he'll answer: Osmaniye has a district called the Straight Way. In the summer, the population of the village grows to 2,000. The people of the village tied a hose to their homes from a stream that flowed near Pinechia. The city has attached a meter to those waters, water from the stream, but they've been tested, water is undrinkable. So if you think that people who drink water pay for it, we'll give them a drink of water that doesn't drink or drink, and then we'll do politics here. The party of the century did the service of the century, but it gave its citizen a stream of water. It is the same in the Black Sea region, the same in the Mediterranean, the same all over the country. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0183par0226	Thank you. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit the 27th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 28th article, which I'm having read and processed. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 28 of Article 28 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 28 of Article 28 of the Law shall be changed by the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate's Offices and Offices of the State. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ali Akyıldı Tur Yıldız Bıçer Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0184par0241	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0183par0242	Mersin MP Serdal Külcuoğlu will speak on the motion. Mr. Wellercuoglu, have them come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0185par0245	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the 28th Amendment of State Water Affairs General Directorate 548. I salute you all with respect and love. One of the most important issues of this bill is the part about the restructuring of irrigation troops. Watering troops are public corporate personalities. Their administration is determined by the choices made by the participation of all members, our citizens, so it has a democratic structure. Now, to change that and hand it over to a president appointed by the State Water Department is to take away the personality of our corporate troops. There is nothing more right than to have these institutions, which are owned by our citizens, run by our citizens again. Despite all problems and negativity, watering units have been specialized in watering and maintenance repairs, as they recognise the experience, the training of staff, the land and facilities in the field of service, over the course of twenty-three years. The whole city's law will include watering down problems, especially in rural areas, where people live in access to the ministry. Problems under the management of irrigation units can be eliminated by interference in the framework of legal legislation or re-prepared to respond to the need for legislation. Instead of being shut down or turned over, their infrastructure must be strengthened and their service quality increased. That is the demand and expectation of our people and of our peasants. When we look at the map of Turkey, the AKP has received the largest support and vote from the countryside, but as with everything else, it has staked the biggest in agriculture and irrigation troops to the villager, to the farmer. The sale of sugar factories and the closing of irrigation units are one of them. Don't worry, the AKP will continue to double-cross the peasant, the farmer, and play with their bread. Dear lawmakers, every two years our central districts of Mersin face floods, loss of lives and goods; thousands of acres of agricultural land are damaged, and farmers in distress are even more victims. The lack of proper measures and the lack of sufficient equipment will increase the damage. Also in the central districts of Mersin, Mezitli and Yenişehir districts bordered by Bozkoyak Deresi were built on the memba side of the city; the mansap side was mostly closed down about 15 years ago, but this year the river was reopened due to floods, and the jakaranda grove was cancelled. It was opened about eight months ago, due to floods and floods, while Sergeant Deresi of the Toroslar district was also closed; the surrounding area of the creek is a busy area, the marketplace and traffic. There are roads on both sides of the creek; no security measures have been taken, and accidents have been caused. It has also become a den of filth because of the spill of wastewater into the stream, spreading germs into the environment, and while temperatures have increased, it has become dangerous for human health. The security measures of tens of thousands of people living around the stream must be taken and reformed quickly, not delayed. While the Ministry of Forests and Water Affairs is in charge of the creeks, the rivers that have been closed without account, the damage caused by the flood, and the work that has been done over and over again has damaged both our city and its public resources. Of course, the Department of Forestry and Water Affairs is responsible. Again, the construction of the Aksyfat Dam, which will water the area from the righteous to the fountain, has been waiting for four years, and must be completed quickly. The construction of the Cotton Dam, which returned to the story of the Blackevli Pond and the snake, which began four years ago, has stopped, and this has had a negative effect on Tartarsian agriculture. We expect these constructions to be completed in the name of Mersin as soon as possible. I pay my respects.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0186par0256	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the sum of Article 2942 of Article 11 (part of) Article 11 (part of) the law shall not exceed half the price of the aardvark, which is intended to be replaced by Article 28/8. Merkel Danış Beştaş Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0187par0268	We disagree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0186par0269	Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan will speak on the motion. Mr. Aslan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0188par0272	Mr. President and Mr. General Assembly, I salute you. First of all, let me make a brief statement on this bill. This bill, which envisions radical changes in agriculture, forest and water and commercialises ecology, has not been discussed in public enough, and has been rushed. The existence and protection of water, soil and forests is vital to the lives of all living things. Ecosystems, water, forests, meras, shores must not be opened except to the needs of the public. This law violates both the Constitution and human rights contracts, and most importantly, it violates the laws of nature. No institution can make decisions or be authorized to cause the destruction of the ecosystem. Friends, in fact, I wasn't going to say it, but you remember, last week here, I presented to you a clear slander and a lie from the Evening Gazette, and I said if they were civilized, people would apologize. But instead of apologizing, they put me on the front page again. Now, about this lying media, this ugly slanderer, this spreading media... look, I'm going to tell the media here, what Badiz Zakki said, what he said, what he said to the media in Terakki period, and then we're going to adapt to these. Now that I know what they're doing -- I mean journalists, literaryists -- and the cerices are showing discipline -- so they're pointing it to the truth -- some of them are dirty and some of the newspapers are nasariabaz -- so I see them as haters and garza broadcasters. Don't deal with journalists' cerbet -- I mean, they're targeting people with lies and slander -- with that lying gun. Strive with them in truth and justice. He burns one solid -- one correct -- thousand blends. He says. Now, let's see what they say. We're going to expose them one by one. According to the newspaper: Following the appointment of trustee to the Furkan Education and Service Foundation in Adana, HDP Batman MP Mehmet Ali Aslan brought the matter to the agenda of the TBMM. I haven't had a conversation about the appointment of trustees to the Furkan Foundation, and the transcripts can be looked at. That's their first lie. Secondly, he says that even though Mehmet Ali Aslan is not the electoral zone of Aslan..... it's about the student houses sealed in Adana.. it's also a lie. According to Article 80 of the Constitution, parliament represents not only its territory and its constituency, but all Turkey, the entire nation of Turkey. That's their second lie. Look, one true thing burns all his lies, all his lies full of blends. Again, he said: "To our reporter who has condemned him." No, I didn't insult anyone in the shape of a schematic. Takke fell, he appeared bald, and the fact that a disgrace, a slander, a lie was revealed in the Turkish Language Association Dictionary. I didn't insult anyone. I used that promise to put it in such an expression, the news of your lie. Again, as you can see, they're resorting to lies. Again, let me point out, friends, that we, the MPs, the elected, the ruling leaders, etc., don't look at their language, their religion, their race, their party, their sex, when they go to funerals, we go. They called me the words I didn't say by reporting that I was at a funeral. And if they do not prove it, then they are the Mufsidun (disbelievers, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars, liars. I'm not going to say those words here so the pure minds don't become subjective. Now, here -- I'm going to show that document again -- the Adana National Education Directorate has already written down the homes of students whose homes have been sealed, and your homes have been checked out, not a country. Since it's a place of residence, yes, since it's rented, there will be no sealing. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0189par0282	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0188par0283	Imagine, the governorship, the National Education Directorate, gives this document, it will not be destroyed. The next day, the same house is sealed. Is there a parallel governor or is there a parallel director of National Education in Adana? So when it's supposed to be reported, when it should be disclosed, we refuse to point out who exposed it with lies, slanders. We'll be with the underdog. We will never consent to the media calling the student who wants freedom a terrorist, to call the peasant who wants to protect his land, his water a terrorist, to call the academic who advocates science a terrorist, to call the physicians who advocate the right to live a terrorist. No matter which seal they stamp, we'll continue to stand by the oppressed and continue to expose what they've done to them from here. Let them come, let them report again, and I will continue to expose them from here. Mr. President, one last time...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0190par0287	Please, Mr. Lion...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0188par0288	One minute, Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0190par0289	It's an app I've never done. You finish it, please, on the record.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0188par0290	Okay, that's fine. Each MP gets as many votes as the circulation of a newspaper. I'm not going to tell you the circulation of this paper, I'm not going to advertise it, but when I entered this House on June 7th, I only got three times his circulation from my own knowledge. So my vote for a congressman is higher than the circulation of a newspaper. They can't keep up with this circulation all over Turkey, and a congressman can only do it in his own province. We will continue to fight against journalists and newspapers who try to sow hatred and hatred among our people, and we will continue to expose and decipher them from here. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0191par0294	Thank you, Mr. Lion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 28th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 29: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose the amendment of Article 29 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate 548 which is being held in the following way to the amendment of Article 29 of the Law Charter of the Law and Law. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Kamil Okyay Sındir The Hilmi Maker Tur Star Birçer Omar Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Dursun Çiçük Namık Havutça Edirne İstanbul Balıkesir Ali Akyıldız The third sentence of Article 25 of Article 29-2942 of the Law has been changed as follows. From the end of the deadline for this restraining order on the movers, five years could be extended by the Council of Ministers for one time. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0192par0311	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0191par0312	Balıkesir MP Namik will speak Havut on the motion. Mr. Havutça, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0193par0315	Mr. President, my fellow lawmakers, I have taken a pledge on Article 29 of the existing bill. I salute your high council. My dear friends, I'd like to give you some examples of what farmers and peasants are about agriculture. You've announced a support to the farmer called diesel support. Look, I just got off the phone with the head of the Balıkesir Agriculture Room, and we've been getting 13 euros per acre plus $4 fertilizer support. Do you know what kind of support you've declared all over Turkey with drums? 13 TL diesel support increased by $2, 15 lira; fertilizer support remains exactly the same; 4 lira; 19 lira total. Don't you think this nation's peasants are so blind and blind? It's shameful, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a sin, it's a What did you know about diesel support, what did we understand? You made a mess for $3, $2, and the villagers were happy because they actually had backup. Look, Dear Minister, right now the irrigation troops are paying 23 cents a meter for the watering of one acre in Karen Tahirova, and the cost of one acre is $400. Mr. Balıkesir, a friend of mine, a tripe manufacturer, pays $400 to grow an acre of the tics in Gönen. I don't count fertilizer, diesel, spraying, hoeing, labor. You mean national agriculture. What kind of national agriculture is that? National agriculture is over. That's why you import ships from Italy, so they come to Bandirma Harbor with ships loaded with wheat. The peasant is destroying production, the national agriculture is disappearing; don't you hear this suffering? Look, you want money everywhere, like crazy Dumrul, like crazy Dumrul. [[Applause from CHP rows]] The village of Kozdere Khevem is Balıkesir; my fellow lawmakers, although the Farmers' Protection Association has not provided any service since 2014, look, it costs 452,000 euros to the villagers. He's taking care of his peasant pet on the roof. He can't plant his field, it's forestry, and he's impounding his cars, farm maintenance, state government; their pensions are foreclosed. Don't you just wrongfully impound these people's property, and don't you see from this painting the suffering of these people as a state, the Department of Agriculture? Where in the world is such an app? I'm asking my Balıkesir people here, look, I promised, I'll put it in peace here: the solution to this matter needs to be taken immediately. In Balıkesir, livestock has already ended. The province that feeds Turkey is becoming the province that crawls in Turkey today. Our villagers are foreclosure, tractors foreclosure, fields foreclosure. Can't you hear that sound? Look, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to say a few things about the forests: either you're opening our forest areas with the law, with the laws you've made yourself, to the mines. The Kaz Mountains -- in the fishiesir -- are the world's most important tank of oxygen -- as important as the Swiss Alps. When all the parliamentarians retire from this place, they'll go to ours, the Golden Colon, Edremit, the Kaz Mountains, Akchay, where you'll come. Even the late Erbakan Hodja was our fellowman, who lived there during the summer. Now, like the Kaz Mountains, a natural area that needs to be protected so much is constantly licensed to mine. Mr. Minister of the Forest, why are you giving the Kaz Mountains the mining license? We say the top of the Kaz Mountains is worth more than gold; there's olives on top, there's trees on top, there's forest on top, there's oxygen, there's animal, there's ecology, there's nature, there's tourism, there's everything. Yeah, go dig up the mine somewhere else. Are you creating a forest area, from Ankara to Adana? It's empty all the way from Ankara to Adana. Go make a tree, my friend. Where is it? Is there a single tree here? He had a sense of humor, and he said, "Put us down where the tree is." What forest work did you do in the woods? Look for places that have been abandoned from forest areas so far. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to give you a number. You know, friends, we've lost 56 percent of the 27 million acres of forest in 50 years by law. So these aren't burned, these woods.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0194par0322	The slaughter is still going on, Mr. Havutça.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0193par0323	It didn't burn, it didn't burn, we killed it 2/B. 50 percent of the forest areas are under the laws that come out of here. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, let me finish, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0195par0326	Pack it up, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0193par0328	Here, once again, at the end of 2016, the total amount of permits given in the forests is 6,000 hectares. You gave 103,502 of this to the prospectors. In the final words, it is clear that wherever Turkey is running low, the forest is growing, wherever its appetites are growing, the forest is falling. You delivered it to the mining rate. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0196par0332	And during the Minister's Ministry, we're running low on forests.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0197par0333	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly In the third sentence of Article 2942 of Article 25 of the Law, which is envisioned to be replaced with Article 2942 of Law 548, we propose and recommend that the notice be changed by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Council of Ministers. Meral Danış Beştaş Behçet Yıldırım Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0198par0345	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0197par0346	Iğdır MP Mehmet Emin Adıyaman will speak on the motion. Mr. Adıyaman, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0199par0349	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Yes, it's about the 29th Amendment. The State Water Affairs General Administration Agency Act and the relevant legislation have also been compressed into five articles related to the Instigation Act or Publicisation Act, which is irrelevant to the inside of the law. Now, this 29th article changes the third sentence of Article 25 of the Legislative Law. Of course, the citizen doesn't know what kind of change this is, and maybe a lot of our congressman friends didn't compare. In fact, the right to property on the move, which is to be adopted from the declaration of the Statement Act, is limited in the existing law for five years, but in this law, a five-year extension is granted to the Council of Ministers. So this means that the right to property is guaranteed by Article 35 of the Constitution. It is clearly under the concept of the Council of Ministers and the Government, which is the abstract concept of public benefit, which is not concrete, but what kind of public good is concrete, that there is no measure in the law, nor in the Legislization Act. But the public benefit will be taken behind this sentence and the property of the citizen will be confiscated. How will it be confiscated? Let's give a concrete example: Now, imagine, a dam will be built and a field will be nationalized as a minefield. It's a five-year period, but the Council of Ministers will add another five years, and for ten years -- can you think -- the citizen, the citizen, will not be able to benefit from his own property. Again, in the existing law, for example, municipalities have adopted a certain amount of property, it has a five-year limitation period, and if the process of publicisation does not take place within five years -- for example, for whatever purpose it is publicized, for school, but five years later, school is not built, consider a similar event in the village -- the citizen automatically has a right to save on its own real estate at the end of five years. Now, when another five years are added to ten years -- which is ten years, as if for a short time -- a citizen, imagine -- ten years -- will wait indefinitely. He will plant a tree, he will not plant it; he will build a structure, he will not build it. Why? Because you've got ten years ahead of you, and in this decade, will the administration do anything? For example, it has not been processed for two years, the citizen has probably given up the process of publicisation. If he says, "If he builds a structure, plant a tree, or conducts a study that will bring goods, goods, goods, in his sixth year, let's implement the publicisation process, we invest in the purpose of publicisation." Or he'll wait ten years, and even though it's ten years out, whatever the issue of the formalization process, for example, the dam, if it's to be abandoned or the road is to be crossed, it'll be abandoned, but the citizen won't be able to benefit from his own property for ten years, from his own real estate. Madam Secretary, this clause clearly contains a violation of the Constitution, which clearly violates Article 35. This substance must be protected as it was before or this amendment must be withdrawn from the bill. It's really an arrangement to victimize a citizen. It's a clause that's designed to be useful to some conglomerates, to some kind of monopoly, which will be called the public benefit. But think about it, a decision is being made in the 7th, 8th, or 9th year of the administration's formalisation process, within the reasons the X conglomerate requested. Now, a citizen shouldn't pay a price here, he shouldn't be in trouble. Five years, as in the past law, is a reasonable time. I think that reasonable time needs to be maintained. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0200par0356	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. I submit the 29th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There are two motions on Article 30: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the 30th amendment of the 30th Article of the Law shall be changed in accordance with the Law on the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which is currently held in 548 rows. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Kamil Okyay Sındir Hilmi Maker Omar Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Dursun Flower Haluk Pekşen Ali Akyıldız The following joke was added to Article 27 of the Law 30-2942 after its first joke. The decision to take possession of the property given to the court is declared to the office of the deed. The decree that no one will be dealt with except the law of God. After the seizure decision, the immovable property is released under Article 20. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0201par0372	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0200par0373	Tripoli MP Haluk Pekşen will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Pekshen.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0202par0376	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have made a promise today to make a note of history, and I will speak to you about a fact that will be noted in history. I'm going to tell you how a country can be dragged into a robbery order with a bureaucrat's hand. In 2006, your government made a decision, saying: let's prepare for these Garp Lines to dig up local coal in the mining fields in Bronzebilek. The State Planning Agency accepts this proposal and leaves a grant here. They're bidding on two different galleries here, two different firms coming in, they're taking contracts. One of the firms does and opens the gallery during its commitment, and delivers it to the government. The government should be extracting 700,000 tons of coal from that gallery a year, but today, unfortunately, it's producing 111 thousand tons of coal. We don't know why he didn't take it off, but what's really dramatic is the 2nd gallery they call A1. I'm afraid there's no amount of coal to be removed from this underground gallery so far. Why can't it be removed? First, the open pool next to it explodes, floods the gallery. Then there's another scheme, and there's one machine in this gallery. The company that left the machine says: "I want my machine." One year, the institution leaves its power, TKI tries to remove the man's machine. They're pulling them out, one piece of junk, there's pictures of them here. They're scraping one piece of junk, it's a worthless piece of junk, but thousands of workers in that area are too busy taking it out. And then? Next thing you know, as of last week, the gallery is getting to the point where it's going to produce coal, and it's going to be pulled out of the gallery, which is, oh, my God, it's burning, it's burning. The total amount of money spent without extracting a gram of coal is 1 quadrillion liras and 1 quadrillion liras. Yeah, I see you're surprised, aren't you? I'm actually questioning how this is going to play out in the consciences. You made this person the general manager, the frilly Mustafa, famous. It's interesting, Mustafa, that he's burying the money for 12.5 million tons of coal that can be extracted without extracting 1 gram of coal. (CHP clapping in rows) Is that possible? Is that a conscience? I'm going to extract 22 and a half million tons of coal... that was spent on 12 and a half million tons of coal before that coal was taken out. Now the gallery's closed. The machines that were bought for the gallery, brought from China, stayed in the gallery, and they were gone. Yes, that's the case, but there's another drama, another drama that everybody knows, that everybody's talking about in Bronzebilek, and there's a power plant right there, and there's no filter for the power plant. Twenty-four hours there, poison falls on the rabbit, poison. The coal powders have been carved into people's lungs, and unfortunately -- just now, a precious MP here gave us the numbers of Bigeli, 37 percent of the time -- it's there to 50 percent of the people. Everyone who lives in the rabbit family lives to the death, cancer to the death, everyone. If anyone's interested in our numbers, I can give them to you. For God's sake, pay attention to these numbers one day, take an interest in them, but if you're not looking at the numbers we're going to give you, ask the mayor of Bronzebilek, ask the mayor of Rabbit about these chimneys, what are you doing about the poisons that fall on this city? Those mayors are struggling, trying to tell their constituents, their citizens, their citizens there. Yes, we're against it, but unfortunately, behind this power plant, politics has great power. Now, there's an arrangement in this law, and it says that if these bureaucrats make movies and they're put on trial for this, let the state pay the fines and the legal fees of these bureaucrats. What kind of conscience is that? What kind of law is that? How in God's name did you get that over there? (HIP's applause) Whirlwind Mustafa will make all kinds of frills, where he will betray the government's resources in order to give the allies a rundown, but the lawyer's fee will be on the back of the poor citizen to save Mustafa the Whirlwind. Honored MPs, please don't say yes to this. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0203par0386	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the provision of the law, which is included in the second sentence of the joke, shall be replaced by the 30th article of the 548 rows, and added to Article 2942 after the first joke. Mahal Danış Beştaş Sibel Yiğitalp Mahmut Toğrul Mehmet Ali Aslan Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Emin Adıyaman Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0204par0397	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0203par0398	Gaziantep MP Mahmut Toğrul will speak on the motion. Mr. Toğrul, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0205par0401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear lawmakers, the AKP fills whatever it finds independent into the bag with the logic of the bag bill, and in fact, what's in it is often not understood by society, by the public. The AKP intervenes in institutions it can't control itself, in its own understanding of themselves. Dear friends, look, in a clause in this bag of legislation, irrigated troops can be operated by private law enforcement through the age of right to operate. It means that it intervenes in watering troops, it throws trustees. So, how many members of the irrigation troops do they have? There are 17,487 councilmen, dear friends. A total of 378 irrigation units are requested to be removed. Now the farmer can't manage himself. Remember, we've seen laws like this in a different way. For example, universities cannot manage themselves or choose their rulers. The choices the university will make will create chaos. So we know the best, we throw it out. The farmers can't rule themselves, they can't manage themselves, and so we intervene there. Is this just around here, dear friends? The AKP intervenes in the same way in all democratic institutions that it has not been able to obtain. Earlier, you all remember, a few weeks ago, the Medical Association had made a statement that as members of a profession sworn to live, we do not forget that it is our primary duty to defend life, to maintain the climate of peace. The way to deal with war is to build a fair, democratic, egalitarian, free and peaceful life and make it permanent. No to war, peace right now! Now, that's the explanation. What did the government do right away? ▪ How does the Chamber of Medicine make such a statement? The doctors can't choose their representatives; neither can lawyers or barmen. Who knows what is best? The AKP knows best. Taking over... what do you want to do there? I manage, I manage, and he tries to intervene. Look, the Medical Offices have a management election now. You see, with all your interference, you still can't get it, doctors, lawyers, rooms, engineers can manage themselves, dear friends. So are the universities, so are the irrigation troops. Now, the other critical thing in this arrangement is the chairman of the Department of Research and Projection. This unit, which currently belongs to the Department of Agriculture Reform of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Animalism, is being transferred to the General Directorate of State Water Affairs. This amendment allows public land to be leased to energy companies to build solar energy systems on dams, ponds and water resources, and to operate these systems in relevant companies. The relevant substance paves the way for privatisation, especially of the last remaining resources in the country. Demands are being made from the General Directorate on the basis of this clause. It appears that the request came from large capital companies and that the bill was drafted by consideration of the demand of these companies. So the AKP government is opening up its forests, its farmlands, it's opening up everything for the runt, and it's opening up the market for companies that are close to it. Dear friends, as our party against AKP's ecological, cultural, social destruction projects and policies, we will continue to defend everything that belongs to the air, water, streams, seas, lakes, forests, and lives. We say these are the people, and I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0206par0408	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 30th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are accepted. There are two motions on Article 31, which I make to read. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 31 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürkcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0207par0421	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0206par0422	Adana MP Coral Danış Beştaş will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Danış Beştaş.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0208par0425	Thank you. Mr. President, the esteemed lawmakers, yes, the historical turn we're in is so important that I'm pretty sure no congressman here is really thinking too much about the bill right now because it's dust and dust all over the place. EU Turkey Report announced. So far, experts say, according to our findings, the European Union's Turkey Report, which includes the harshest statements. Despite all the statements of the government wing in particular about the ▪ since July 15th, despite the allegations, the report does not even mention the concept of ▪. It doesn't pass, but it passes. The report describes in detail what the State of Emergency has done to Turkey. Yes, it is also important in this harshest report that Turkey continues to walk away from the European Union in giant steps. Yes, in giant steps... on the one hand, the Minister of the European Union is strategic, and on the other hand, he's completely turned his back on the values of the European Union, the laws of harmony, and what needs to be done. For one thing, with the continuation of the State of Emergency, this decision has already been made in advance. The report contains all the details from the judiciary to the human rights area, from the field of human rights to the social demonstrations, from the intervention of social demonstrations to the failure of local courts to comply with the AYM decisions. Yes, indeed, it is time for Turkey to take a strategic approach to entering the European Union. Rather than saying, "It is time for it to prevent harmonisation of the values and principles of the European Union." What else do we have? Yeah, we're going through the process of selling sugar factories that are one of the national capitals. Life-threatening arrangements for water rights are being made, but at the same time, the stockpile of foreign debt has risen above the capital in the entire country. The covered grant found 3 billion TL. The money spent in wars, of course, comes from people's taxes, but there's a lot going on, and it's all painful. We're going through a social, political atmosphere where a brother like Merve Teacher committed suicide because he couldn't be appointed. What else do we have? Since Teacher Ayşe is attached to the White Show and only the children should not die, I stress that we should only discuss her prison sentence because she says children should not die. It's 2:00 on Friday. He'll go to jail with his baby at 100. The mothers are in prison in this country because she says children should not die. I want to bring this to your attention. In fact, every budget that is created by the tax of the people remains in the throats, as if it were a forbidden bite, so let's never forget it, let's not forget it. On the other hand, what happened? There's been a lot of progress today. İhsan Eliaç was sentenced to six years and three months for his speeches, Ayþe Hür, and they were so large that an early election called for a bomb. Of course, this has been answered in groups, but there is an even more important development, and tomorrow we will talk about the State of Emergency in this Parliament. For the 7th time, the extension of the State of Emergency will come to this Parliament and will be presented to Parliament Speakership, according to breaking news. Who is the State of Emergency really being brought in for? Of course, it's for power. The president wants to extend his authority to run this country with the KHK, and there is no other explanation.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0209par0432	For the country, the country.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0208par0433	On the one hand, there's no pressure on the artists, where's the pressure? Under the State of Emergency, a citizen moans, commits suicide, goes to prison, gets out of work, workers get killed in business, and we're here to talk about the State of Emergency. Obviously, sum up the State of Emergency to me in one sentence. If you say, "If you're not a AKP member, you're a terrorist." I'll say, "You don't have a choice, you'll be an AKP member or... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I am, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0210par0436	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0208par0437	If you're not a AKP member in the State of Emergency, you're a terrorist; it's in front of everyone. And finally, let me say that the process that we're in is actually a very good repeat of the 2002 elections, which seems to be a repeat of history. At that time, you remember, the DSP, the ANAP, the DYP, the radical parties were gone. Again, Mr. Gardenie made the call, and his own party was under the dam. This is the choice to get rid of the AKP, sooner or later, the choice to get rid of the AKP, the beginning of this coalition. I mean, it's the beginning of the end, and it's really the beginning of the end of it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0211par0439	You're seeing things.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0208par0440	The call has now been made, there will be talks soon, but remember that the citizen rejoices in the choice of salvation, and I will tell you that. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0211par0443	Dream, dream.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0208par0444	No, no, it's not a dream.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0212par0445	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0213par0447	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0212par0448	Mr. Mush, here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0213par0451	Mr. President, I think it's useful for me to clarify one thing, and the issue is that the State of Emergency has been declared under the Constitution and the laws of Turkey and has been decided whether or not to extend it by the will of Parliament. Here under the State of Emergency, terrorists are the ones who moan, not the citizens, but the terror organizations and terrorist organizations that moan.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0214par0452	Like, do workers become terrorists?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0213par0453	Thus, those who are not from the AKP PARTY are terrorists. There is absolutely no way that we can accept such a word. In the Republic of Turkey, 81 million of our citizens have equal rights of citizenship, whether they vote for the EC PARTY or not.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0215par0455	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0213par0456	As a ruling party, our primary duty is to provide equal service and public service to our citizens within the framework of the law, to carry out their life and property security under the responsibility that the Constitution has imposed on our government. That's what it's all about, and there's no way we can accept any other comments or comments.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0215par0457	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0216par0458	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0215par0459	Mr. Kerestecioğlu, I give you my word on 60. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0216par0462	I just want to put it in one sentence: AKP Deputy Group President, in fact, has expressed that all the people who were victims of the State of Emergency, all the people who moaned, were terrorists, which was probably heard by all the people. So the people who are victims of the State of Emergency are all terrorists in this country, which is good for him.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0463	Mr. President, just a moment...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0215par0464	Mr. Mush...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0218par0465	He confirmed me, Mr. President. Actually, that's exactly what I said.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0466	Mr. President, it's clear what I'm saying.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0219par0467	We'll take a look at the records. That's what he said, like...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0468	What I'm saying is that the den is moaning...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0220par0469	So when you say, union, let the State of Emergency rise, do workers become terrorists, sir?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0470	Take it out and talk it out.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0220par0471	I'm talking out of here, I'm talking out of here.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0472	It's here, it's here, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's there, it's The State of Emergency had a coup attempt facing Turkey, and it was implemented in the process after that...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0220par0474	Haven't you had enough?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0475	...and here, the PKK terrorist organization, correct, is moaning, DHKP-C is moaning.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0220par0476	Come on, let go!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0477	DEAŞ terrorist organisation is moaning inim inim, the terrorist organisation is moaning inim. This is not against citizens, this is an act declared against terrorist organizations and terrorist activities against Turkey.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0221par0478	ISIS pulls the rope.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0220par0479	No strikes, no meetings, no demonstrations!
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0217par0480	The application is limited to these, but other than that, it's their own interpretation. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0222par0482	Thank you. I'm having the other motion read: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the following amendment of the interim Article 13 of Article 31 of the Law on the Amendment to the State Water Affairs General Directorate of 548, which is currently in session, in accordance with the Law on Organizations and Jobs, in accordance with Article 31. Kemal Zeybek Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Dursun Flower Ali White Star Hilmi Generator Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Kamil Okyay Sındir Okan Gaytancıoğlu "The period between the period when the payment of the payment period and the payment of the payment of the payment due to the government's payment due to the court's decision, which has been paid due to the adoption and appeals, as of the date of which this clause has entered into effect, is not taken. If the writing on repayment has been issued before the date this clause is in effect, the interest will be waived, provided the debt is paid within three months, as long as it is not paid until the date this clause is in effect. The follow-up on these individuals stops during payment, the payment is then terminated, and the costs of execution and trial are not required. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0223par0499	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0222par0500	Samsun MP Kemal Zeybek will speak on the motion. Here you are, Mr. Zeybek.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0224par0503	Mr. President, my fellow congressmen, I salute you. This law is a means of illegal seizure of all the property of our peasants, our citizens, with a vineyard and a field. Now, before this law, which failed to take advantage of this law, before this bag of legislation, was passed down to 168 families -- every family -- in 1959 by the law of residence -- from Fatsa County of the Army to the Salypazarı district of Samsun, to the Adnan Menderes, to the Avut village of Avut, where the state was transferred to the 10783th Council of Ministers of the province of Samsun in 1959, in exchange for the state's decision at the time of which they were given to handing out the land, according to the laws of the Landing Act, the total number of 168 families -- including twenty-five acres per family -- the works of their land were laid down in the forest, during which Prime Minister Adnan Mendelres rule of rule of law had been laid out of the forest. Now, you're going to sell land to citizens by state law, and then you're going to come back, and you're going to call this land in the 1990s. Doesn't that have any rights? So where did the government get the right to sell the forest to our citizens, to our peasants? If it's the forest you're selling, is it possible to rebuild the forest? I'd like to say from here that with this law, with this bag of legislation, I was convinced that this should be dealt with and that the victims of this kind of citizens should be dealt with. I offered the law on this matter. It's not in the law, the bag is not in the law. If such citizens are not to be protected... do you feel comfortable making such a law in order to ensure that all the assets of our citizens in the country, of my people living in the village, of our village, are seized and our peasants abandoned? My fellow congressmen, the forest area will be completely in the hands of the law. We have to stop this. I am in the basin of Samsun, in the Vezirkörü, in Karak, in Ladik, in Alaçam, in Ayvacık, in Bafra, in Wednesday...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0225par0508	In the sweat...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0224par0509	Yes, there's Terme, my precious Regent. They're within the scope of 2/B land, while our citizens can't take these 2/B land, while our current agricultural citizen can't take credit for all the payments given to the farmer without his land. It is the duty of this Parliament to give it, to carry it out. What do you want to do by selling our forests, selling 2/B land when you should be dealing with them, selling your own interests to your own environments -- we don't know what else they're planning behind it? Do you want to take those farmlands out of the agricultural area and turn them into agricultural areas, such as the food under Samsun's Tekkeköy? You want to destroy our very productive land? Dear fellow lawmakers, we have to make laws here that protect the citizen, which are on the side of the citizen. If we can't do this, if we don't want to do this... next to this political power that wants to pursue our forests today... our people see what's being done. Our people who have seen this will meet their requirements in the first election. The law is being passed in accordance with the state of emergency, in accordance with the rules of the law. Make this law in accordance with the law, and the citizen will have no objection. Why are you making us work here? You're already making your own laws. I give you my regards.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0226par0515	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit Article 31 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 32 of the same nature. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 32 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürklüm Müslüm Doğan I'm reading the signatures of the other motion: Erkan Aydın Muhammet Reza Yalçınkaya Ömer Fethi Gürer Kamil Okyay Take Down Ali Akyıldız Orhan Sarıbal Okan Gaytancıoğlu Hilmi Maker Durcek Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0227par0534	We disagree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0226par0535	İzmir MP Müslüm Doğan will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Dogan, come in.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0228par0538	Mr. President, the current number is now $4.10; euro 5.05. Our Minister of Economy is coming out and making a statement, and what we've been through doesn't reflect the reality of Turkey. Of course, the Minister of Economy doesn't realize that. Turkey's twelve-month current account deficit increased by about 20 billion dollars compared to the same month of the previous year -- friends, 60 per cent -- to 53 billion, 300 million dollars -- but if we ask our Minister of Economics, these figures do not reflect the truth. That's the truth, Mr. Secretary. Four hundred and thirty thousand trades in the last four years. Even the end-of-year inflation targets have been breached in the first quarter, the exchange and the current are unstoppable. And there's not a shred of hope that he'll recover. This is what your 16-year-old power has brought into the country, and it reflects the truth. There are other facts, of course. I'd like to tell you the facts that the ministers and bureaucrats don't want to see, but they know very well. Together with the EC PARTY, Turkey has become an importer from a net exporter country in agriculture, from 2002 to today. With AKP power, Turkey has been able to import almost every product from wheat to corn, soy tobacco, live animal to red meat, chickpeas to lentils. Turkey's farms, which have been planted and harvested for years, will open to cementing, providing cheap energy. With their words, natural massacres have become ordinary. Now, with this bill, the government is trying to limit water use -- on the other hand -- to the use of one capital by brutally slaughtering nature, while on the other hand -- to the use of water resources. Unfortunately, he chose our farmer as the target audience for the control of water use. The last penny in the farmer's pocket, fighting to keep from producing it, is now being coveted. We know that land collection is made to increase productivity in agriculture, to obtain the producer's comfortable agriculture and living conditions. Land collection is also a true part of land use. Does this bill increase efficiency in agriculture? Does it offer the manufacturer a more comfortable agricultural and living condition? Of course not. So, what's really going on, valuable lawmakers? On the basis of task and authorization, it's actually determined how and who will govern and use its subterranean and subterranean resources. Actually, the point is, it's metabolizing. In the process of investing in the capital of natural spaces, the water needed for the existence of nature and providing life for all living beings, along with the basin, is to be integrated into the use of companies and capital savings, unfortunately, the process is to be included. Dear lawmakers, the forest ecosystem is not just a community of trees and trees, in the way the government perceives it. We cut down a thousand trees, plant a million. A tree is not an ecosystem. For tens of thousands of microorganisms, the ecosystem is a community of living beings that are a source of food, oxygen and water for the entire animal world, including humans. With the law, the forest integrity has already been corrupted and the ecological balances have been turned upside down, it is clear that there will be a great deal of destruction as the forest areas are fully run for Ranta and the forest areas are rapidly narrowed. Again, under the arrangement brought together by the bill, troops formed with a democratic, participatory understanding of governance are asked to be eliminated with all their organs and instead to transfer the president of the union and the board's duties and powers to the public staff, the trustee, who will be appointed by the DSI. Dear lawmakers, with the current structures and properties of irrigation troops, contact with farmers, control of the field, the solution to problems can be produced with a participating understanding, and it is possible for the farmer to manage himself. Now, with this bill, these troops are being rendered dysfunctional. The passing of this bill means the destruction of the ecological system, the end of livelihood agriculture and animalism. Therefore, this bill must be completely withdrawn. I salute you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0229par0549	Thank you. On the other proposal of the same nature, Bursa MP Orhan Sarıbal will speak. Here you are, Mr. Saribal.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0230par0553	Mr. President, the high-value lawmakers, the AKP aims to make the rural population lonely and pooren and pledge. Is that enough? It's not enough. This law is a total coup, looting, looting, rant and dictatorship law. Why is it a coup? The democratically elected irrigation troops are a coup law due to the removal of their administration without election. Why is it the law of looting, looting and rant? Because from the bottom of our forests, it opens them up into the private sector and leads them to plunder with the obelisk, allowing them to expand their settlements and open new settlements. So, of course, this bill stands before us as a dictatorial, looting, looting, and, of course, oppressive bill. What exactly does it fit into? It obeys the AKP and the court regime. [[Applause from CHP rows]] So, who are they replacing, who are they taking charge of? They carry water into the mills of imperialists, multinational corporations. What do they do that with? They do it under extraordinary circumstances. Why? Because they can't do it under the usual circumstances, because there's nothing unusual about them that feeds on extraordinary conditions. But they also have one feature: they don't just oil big multinational corporations, but they also share the country's resources with their own advocacy companies. Like what? Like they're looting candy factories, looting them, selling them like they inherited them from their father. We said, "You can't sell Erzurum again and again." We said, "Because this is a block." We said, "This is a pool." If it's hurting, why would Kayseri Sugar go and buy another sugar factory, why? So in just three days, we can see very, very clearly that the model that you've brought in with your Cargill custom-order reports and multinational companies through their starch-based lobbyes has collapsed, other companies are behind the tenders, others are directly related to the AKP and the palace. Mr. Secretary, right now the oak and the father-in-law forest are cut down in the area of Suuttu Falls in Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa, and I'm giving you an address. It's just that there's going to be a pond. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of oaks and in-laws are being cut, so please take a look at this, not the Goldenstone country. Again, Mr. Secretary, Munzur, my class are the most wonderful parts of nature. Ovacık Mayor Mehmet Maçoğlu has a message to the Parliament. He says: "Keep your hand away from Munzur, Dersimik, Ovacık. " What else does Maçoglu say: Munzur is one of the most beautiful places in the world. My lesson is one of the most beautiful geographys of Anatolia and the land of peace, democracy, freedom, resistance. Leave us the plains. We produce and live with our own people in Ovacık, because what you want to do is to market Munzur and Dersim. For decades, you've been trying to force the people to migrate from there. Get your hands and feet out of this. You want Ovacik County to be dehumanized because it's a dam with a code of 1,200, but it's an altitude of up to 1,300, 50, 60 meters, and you want to build a dam that goes right into the city. Do you know what that means? When the dam is built, Ovacık will be completely flooded. In particular, he wants his 1st and 2th projects to be stopped immediately, to be abandoned from this place. Again, this is all national park. 70 percent of this national park will be underwater, he says. Of course he doesn't say that much, he says other things. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0231par0561	Complete.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0230par0562	Maçoglu says: "All states and systems that serve capitalism want to buy free things in their own monopoly. Capital companies don't like the free flow of Munzur water in Ovacık. They don't like nature to serve them. That's why they want to open up the Ranta. People here aren't being served, but with projects to be done, people are asked to be placed here from the outside. There's been a brutal attack on Ovacık. The government wants to open this place up to Ranta. Capitalism wants to design Ovacık district in its own way. And his last words are: "We will also organize social resistance against those who want to monopolize the Ovacık. To save nature, we call on all environmentalists in Turkey to take over the district of Ovacık. Long live nature! Long live Ovacik! Long live the righteous battle of Ovacık. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0232par0567	I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. I submit Article 32 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Mr. Mush, you're in the system. Here, according to 60.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0233par0573	Mr. President, I'd like to point out that we disagree with your honor's comments regarding the bill. I think it's very clear what this bill is aiming for and what it's aiming for. So I'd like to say once again that we disagreed with the comments.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0232par0574	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0234par0575	I want a promise, too.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0235par0576	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0232par0577	Mr. Saribal, there's nothing about you. He said he disagreed with your comments, so no teasing, nothing.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0236par0578	What, you don't have to! I was going to say I disagree, but I'll tell you. It's a good idea if we tell him.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0232par0580	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0237par0582	And I think that Orhan Saribal, our Fellowship Member, is an interpreter for the sensitivities, sensitivity of 80 million people in Turkey, in an environment and in a sense of nature. I don't agree with these criticisms, this sensitivity and reflex of the government and the ruling party. Instead of saying, "There's at least a little bit of something in there for them." I'd rather he said, "There's something in there." Thank you.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit05spe0232par0584	Thank you. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0232par0001	I now open the Sixth Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We'll resume the talks of Bill 548. The commission and the government are in place. There are two motions on Article 33: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 33 of Article 33 of the Law shall be removed from the draft text of Article 33 of the State Water Affairs General Directorate, which is currently in session. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Hilmi Maker İrfan Bakr Ali Akyıldı Dursun Çekek Okan Gaytancıoğlu Kamil Okyay Sinındir Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, sir. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0238par0019	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0232par0020	Isparta MP İrfan Bakr will speak on the motion. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Mr. Copper, there was a great deal of gratitude.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0239par0023	Mr. Secretary, the expert is here, we'd better listen.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0240par0024	Yes, he's the master of water.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0232par0025	Here you go, sir.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0241par0026	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, my dear citizens who are watching us on their screens, I salute you all. There are many amendments to the current legislation, but there are some clauses in this bill that will seriously damage farmers, forest villagers, and the country's economy, the ecosystem that has been created in millions of years and can be destroyed in a single human-handed move. One of these items is the 19th article. In this article, the Ministry of Forestry and Waterworks states that the land, which has no use in its protection as a forest in science and science, will be registered for the treasure of the deed, and will be removed from the forest borders, unable to be converted into agricultural areas. The first joke of Article 169 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey states that the state sets the necessary laws to protect and expand its territory. The last joke includes the conditions for narrowing it in the forests. According to this, narrowing forest borders is strictly prohibited, except for specific areas that lost forest quality prior to 31 December 1981. This is his example, if you ask him, how would a clause violate the Constitution? With this clause, the Constitution is practically inadvertent. Furthermore, the scientific and technical expression that a place has no use for its protection as a forest of science and science is never acceptable. The state is obliged to preserve the forest's presence; it must strive to restore these inefficient or damaged areas to forest quality; it must establish policies to restore these areas to forest property. But the bill will do the opposite, and the forest area will become increasingly narrow. It will pave the way for deforestation, construction, or a license for mining enterprises. The woodless, rocky, rocky areas in the forest may be unqualified to you, even a lot of rant fields, but these areas have an important place in the forest ecosystem. Rocklands are a habitat for many species of animals, such as mountain goats and birds of prey. In fact, these areas must be protected according to the Habitat Direction. Besides the Constitution, the Law on Biological Variety, which we are part of, it is clearly contrary to the Law on Biological Variety. So the forest isn't just about trees, it's not just about the cut of trees; it's about a bigger slaughter here, the destabilization of nature, the extinction of biodiversity, the destruction of the future of all living things, the destruction of our future. The 13th article makes it possible for the sale of forest products to be built in the forest and planted. In the Constitution, the state forests are governed and run by the state according to the law. Such changes are not understood in the law when there is a law. The creation of such a bilateral structure, which is contrary to the Constitution, would lead to irreparable weaknesses in terms of forestry policy. In the field of forestry, the Constitution does not end in this way. The 14th article upsets the lives of forest villagers and reduces the income of forest villagers by changing the law. This is an arrangement that will somehow disrupt the structure of forest co-ops that prevent migration to cities and lower the economic level of the country's low-income forest peasant. 25 percent of the forest they've been given by the law has earned the right to have a cheaper cost for themselves. What's the guarantee that the companies who have taken the job in obelisk sales will be able to run a forest villager in forests protected by them for centuries and under the age of production? Now I ask you, what will these forest villagers do? You're telling them to go if they don't like it, too? Forestry General Directorate data shows that forest areas have increased, but some analyses say the growth of the forest area in Turkey was not caused by the forestry work by the forestry organisation, but by the change in socioeconomic structure of the country's population. The cities where the forest area has increased in Turkey are the cities where the rural population has migrated, and the cities where forest existence has decreased are the cities where populations and industrialisation has increased. So wherever Turkey's runts are growing, the forests are falling. According to the 2018 Environmental Performance Index Report on the country's success in environmental policy, Turkey is the 108th of the 183 countries... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, complete. ...is ranked number 172 in the area of biodiversity and habitat. This ranking tells us what we're up to in forestry politics. Now it's clear that we're going to be further below the order of the future with the materials we're talking about. All social sensibility and responses to this bill are being ignored, and we have the means to build a habitable Turkey. The forests aren't our property, we don't burn these areas down like we want them to, we can't do it in one sentence at all. We need to be aware of that now. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0242par0039	Thank you. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose to replace the terms of the local control facility (also referred to in the third article of Article 3194) with Article 33 of Law Bill 548, which is currently in session. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Sibel Yiğitalp Ertuğrul Kürççı Mizgin Irgat Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0243par0051	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0242par0052	Bitlis MP Mizgin Irgat will speak on the motion. Here you go, Mr. Irgat.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0244par0055	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all again. After receiving a pledge in Article 33 of Bill 548 -- I have listened to many speakers -- I have come to think of the many discussions of the water wars. When we were really talking about Munzur, as we watched Hasankeyf concretely, when we were talking about Gobeklitepe, it made us wonder once again if the world, the world that is now fighting the drought, is going to have water wars, and the center of this is going to be Mesopotamia and the Tigris-Fırat basin, and Turkey's other valleys and water. Their own reports were that $60 billion worth of goods were sold and privatised during the AKP's rule. They sold TECEL factories, many tobacconists, many poor people, many families were unemployed, they took away their only source of income, tobacco. Now sugar factories are being sold; again, many families, many farmers, are victims. Indeed, without an alternative, people are now discussing how to address the economic problems of their own families in the future. Ecology isn't just insects, trees, nature, of course, not forests. What we call ecology, I think, most of all, is cities. The greenlands of cities are deeply concerned with the opening of cities' habitats to humanity right now, nature's protection, human, ecology, and the fact that nature has been rehabilitated in harmony. In this sense, we can say that the AKP government repeats it here in all areas. You don't know it, nature doesn't know it, peasants don't know it, farmers don't know it, but we know it... whereas nature has its own laws, laws of nature. The forests, the water, know very well how to live and how to produce itself, as long as you don't interfere with it, as long as you don't touch the working environment of the farmers, the people who live there, the fields, the land. In fact, nature belongs to all mankind, and in fact, its ownership is another subject of discussion in this sense because it is a place of humanity. Now, I'd like to repeat a lot of the trouble we've been through in the last week. The AKP protected the printing press by its own laws, so even if the printing press was punished, it would not be shut down; unfortunately, the Day Printing Office was shut down. We've talked a lot here -- I've made a motion, we've spoken many times -- he's still in prison. Meles Tekin, 73, was taken to this desert prison. We'd like to open this discussion: criminal justice, punishment, and the issue of humane execution are the other concepts that need to be discussed. You don't approach everything with classic codes, methods of punishment. On this basis, these people need to be evacuated by their age, their position, their situation, by applying for alternative measures. On the other hand, you don't know, we do. All DBP mayors in Bitlis have been arrested. I've mentioned on this bench before, and now all of those mayors have been sentenced to 12 to 5 years in prison, at least five years. The only crime of these mayors is that DBP's mayor is all about being co-chairs. The AKP government, which doesn't recognize the election results there, which in fact doesn't recognize any election outcomes in this country, unfortunately, has blocked the work of our mayors here, their production here is not recognized, the will of the people there is not recognized. On this basis, all arrested co-mayors, lawmakers, co-chairs, journalists, educators, students, artists, are to be evacuated immediately, to be free... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, I'm tidying up.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0245par0065	Pack it up, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0244par0066	...and in that sense, I would like to say once again that Turkey, which has never lost its 2nd place in the ECHR ranking, has to change its place in these reports. We're talking about peasants, but there's no villagers left after the village that's been evacuated. Unfortunately, they had to do things they didn't know about in big cities, the metropolitan areas, because they were literally unable to produce agriculture, economics in their own fields. As a result of security policies and approaches, many villages are currently unresolved. This bill will not answer any of the interests of the peasant, agriculture, nature, really Turkey. And once again, we say, "Free agriculture, nature, trees, birds, people." They will enforce their own laws very well. I salute you with respect.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0246par0070	I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 33 to your votes: Those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Now, on Article 33, the Commission has a request for a reduction. Yes, Mr. President. President, it is necessary to change the terms of the terms of the following legislation, which is included in Article 33 of the framework of the negotiating bill. I'd like to express your appreciation. The commission's request for reduction will be carried out during the writing of the law. There are two motions on Article 34: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We demand and demand that Article 34 of Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürkcı The signatures of the other motion are: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Hilmi Creator Ömer Fethi Gürer Okan Gaytancıoğlu Dursun Cicek Does the Commission participate in the same motions? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0247par0094	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0246par0095	Bolu MP Tanju Özcan will speak on the first motion of the same nature. Mr. Ozcan, please.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0098	Mr. President, dear MPs, I salute the General Assembly. I'd like to express that I'm especially glad that the Minister's phone call is over. Minister, I have a suggestion for you. You're the Minister of Forestry and Water Affairs. Mr. Minister, Bolu, you know, the richest part of Turkey in the forest, is a region with many forest villages; come, let us go with you to Bolu, and let us hear from them the trouble of the forest peasant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0249par0100	Let's go, I always go.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0101	Now, you're going to the village, but you're not going to the forest villages, my...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0249par0102	I've got one foot in Bolu.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0103	By going to Kadıköy, by going to Ankara, you will not understand the problems of the forest peasant.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0249par0105	I'm sorry, I've been to Bolu, more than Kadiköy.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0106	Look, Mr. Secretary, did you or did you not, in your life, wear your boots, go into the woods, cut down the tree, rob it, put it in an ox cart and hand it over to the forest warehouse? Have you ever produced in the forest? Look, 7.5 million...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0250par0107	Is there an ox cart left? Yeah, well, the ox cart is history.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0108	I made it in an ox cart. My late grandfather made it in the woods in an ox cart.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0250par0109	So I did it. Yeah, but what does it matter today? Right now, the ox cart...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0110	I'm sorry, we're not children of the Agha.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0251par0112	Now we're doing it with a tractor, not an ox cart.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0113	Ladies and gentlemen of the law, I made this offer sincerely to the Minister. There's really 7.5 million forest villagers, they're miserable, they don't get a percentage of the national income, they're in a tough spot. You're looking at the price application of the oasis, the arrangement to crush the peasant. These people produce with the most expensive diesel in the world. Yeah, it's over $5.5 for diesel, guys, Mr. Secretary. So really, how will this forest peasant produce at these prices, come tell me about it in the village of Bolu, and if the peasant understands it, you're right, Mr. Minister. If he says I'll never be a candidate again, I'll tell you clearly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0251par0115	Yeah, I was just in Bolu.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0116	Ladies and gentlemen, there's one other thing that upsets me very much: the quality school debate. Now, when did it all start? In a group speech by Mr. President, I remove the TEOG. It began when he said. By God, the Minister of National Education heard it with us that day. They panicked, bureaucrats and stuff, and we're gonna get rid of the TEOG, but what are we gonna replace it with? We will remove TEOG, and what will we replace it with? It is still undetermined. Mr. Secretary -- I'm weird -- he's working day and night to find a system to replace TEOG, and he's going around trying to tell us something, but do you know what happens? In front of Turkey, in front of you, Mr. President calls to the stand, brushing Mr. Minister in front of millions.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0252par0117	Poor Minister.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0118	I'm sore, I swear to God, that's not gonna happen. Friends, to him today, to you tomorrow, to him today, to you tomorrow, to your friend's rights and to his law. Look, there's been a debate called "School School." What are qualified schools? As many imam-members as there are in Turkey have become qualified schools. Yeah, I went to Izzet Baysal Anadolu High School in Bolu, where Kadiköy was once a student with higher grades than Anatolian High School, an unqualified school, but the imam-hatip upper secondary schools were qualified. If friends, imam-hakims are a qualified school, why wouldn't one of the AKP lawmakers over there send their child to imam-haki? Why don't you send your children to the imams? Qualified school...
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0253par0120	I sent it. What do you mean? We sent an imam-whore.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0121	Oh, yeah? It's from a friend of ours. Do you have any more? Does anyone else have an imam-hat kid?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0253par0122	There's lots, there's lots.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0123	So, why do you make these imam-hats grow like mushrooms when you don't send your own children to imam-haji? Why do you want people to send their children there?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0254par0124	We're sending him to be president.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0253par0125	Anyone who wants to send it, don't force it.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0126	I don't know if you're aware that education in imam-gays is very bad, and therefore, despite all the pressure, the citizen is no longer sending his children to imam-gay high school. And you know that, and you're trying to promote imam-haters? So let's do imam-hats, let's open up, change the name of each school to imam-hap, and then the parents don't have to send their children to imam-hauls, parents have to send their children to private school. Is that logic? That's understanding? Mr. Mush, you're laughing, but I can't find anything else. Why were the Anadolu high schools in Turkey removed from the qualified school class? I'm asking you, there's a lot of valuable people here who grew up in these schools. Look, there's an Izzet Baysal in Bolu. Does anyone know about Izzet Baysal? Turkey's greatest philanthropist has contributed a great deal to education, they have great health care in Bolu. Minister, I don't know if you know Izzet Baysal.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0255par0129	I know, I know.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0130	One of Turkey's ambitious schools, which Izzet Baysal Baysal opened in the field of education, has become an unqualified school of Izzet Baysal Anadolu High School, and this family is still making significant investments in education in Bolu. You're breaking these people's hearts, first of all. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if you'll excuse me, I'll finish my sentences.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0133	Go ahead, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0248par0134	And finally, let's talk about this irrigation unit thing. Look, there's the President of the Watering Union in Bolu. We're a dear brother. All Bolu loves him very much. The poor man has come and gone in and out of the negotiations of the Commission. You know, every day he asked me, "Ya, I'm listening to everyone, but I still can't get these irrigation troops out of the AK PARTY speakers. As a result, our peasant will be harmed, and he will start to pay even greater money. Besides, you set up the irrigation units. On what grounds do you remove your own irrigation troops? Yes, I ask you, I beg you, in the name of millions of our citizens. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0137	I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: The provision of the provision of the provision includes the allowances taken under Article 492 under the Law on Currences 193 and the Act on Taxes of Institutions 5520. We think it would be appropriate for the plan and budget commission to be transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission as a secondary commission, with a better understanding of the matter and the integration of the Plan and Budget Commission. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the motions are not accepted. Those who accept Article 34... those who refuse... Matter accepted. There are two motions in Article 1 of Article 35: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that additional article 1 be removed from the draft text, which is envisioned to be added with Article 35, according to the Law Bill 548. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0257par0152	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0153	I'm reading the reason: In addition to the KPSS (B) test score, the second oral and practical examination of forest engineers and forest rangers is recommended in Law 3234. The article has been shown to determine whether candidates will be eligible for professional conditions. However, professional conditions require a vocational central exam, not an interview or an application exam, which is subjective to subjective evaluations. This bill opens the way for an unfair practice on the appointment of forest engineers and forest conservation officials. In addition, this clause violates the principle of equality of the Constitution, the decision of the State and the principle of right. For these reasons, the item must be removed from the draft text. I submit to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We would like to propose and propose the following amendment of Article 548 of State Water Affairs General Directorate, under Article 35 of the Law, under which there are amendments to certain Laws. Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Ömer Fethi Gürer Hilmi Maker Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ali Akyıldız Article 1- They will be appointed as forest keepers and forest engineers, and according to the central examination according to their legislation, they will be determined by the written and applied examination results of the examination commissions, among the candidates to be called to four times as many. The procedure and the basis for the implementation of this clause are determined by the regulations imposed by the Director General of the Forest. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0258par0171	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0172	I'm reading the reason: The implementation of objective methods that require equality and fairness in measurement and evaluations. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. In addition to Article 35, I submit to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 2 of Article 35, which I'm going to read and process: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that the amendment to Article 35 of Law Bill 548 shall be changed in the following manner. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan ▪The Turkish Radio-Television Agency has to broadcast about irregular intervention of forest resources, for at least 90 minutes a month, of course, against disasters, forest fires, the necessary measures to be taken, the conservation and pollution of water resources, the love of nature and awareness, the fight against desertification, animals and, of course, the protection of life. The national, regional and local broadcasters and radio stations outside the TRT are optional and pay-per-view. These publications are conducted between 8:00 and 10:00 p.m., with a minimum of 30 minutes between 5:00 and 10:00 p.m., and copies of the literature are delivered regularly to the Radio and Television Supreme Council each month. Other than these hours, publications are not included for a period of 90 minutes per month. These programs are prepared or prepared by the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs and the Director General of the Forest. The programs are broadcast on radio and television by the Radio and Television Oversight. No price will be paid for the publications made under this joke. The audit of these publications and their time is made by the Radio and Television Oversight. The stimulus and educational literature does not include unintended public publicity and advertising content. Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0259par0188	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0189	I'm having it read. The media service providers, which are part of the mandatory broadcast, are separated from TRT and private channels. Because TRT is a public broadcaster, it has to include such publications in its programs. These publications are optional and paid for national and local private channels. It will also contribute to the financing of local and national channels. Because if a 90-minute broadcast per month is very long and mandatory, private national and local channels will reduce their ads. If it's paid, the problem will go away. Another change in our proposal aims to prevent publications from being prepared with irrelevant content. Many of the public spotlights broadcast on television show promotions and adverts of the activities of relevant ministries, and messages of politicians from places and places are being carried out into the spotlight. Public spotlights are supposed to be educational, informative and stimulating. It was intended by our motion. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit to your votes the Article 2 of Article 35: Those who accept... those who refuse... the Article is accepted. There are two motions on Article 3 of Article 35, which are the same property: I read it and process it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that additional article 3 be removed from the draft text, which is envisioned to be added with Article 35 of Law Bill 548. Filiz Kerestecioğlu Demir Mizgin Irgat Behcet Yıldırım Erdal Atash Bedia Öz Gökçe Ertan The signatures of the other motion are: Muhammad Reza Yalçınkaya Erkan Aydın Dursun Cicek Hilmi Maker Okan Gaytancıoğlu Ömer Fethi Gürer Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't agree, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0260par0212	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0213	I'm reading the grounds for the first motion of the same nature. In this envisioned arrangement, the 8th ore of the additive is the same as the 8th ore of the 3rd and 8th mine. It is a provision for the DSI to cover the costs of lawyers for the crime committed by the State Water Affairs General Directorate and for the part of the authorized staff. According to this clause, DSI personnel are sentenced by the State Department of Water Affairs to meet their financial and spiritual woes, especially the legal costs of the DSI personnel charged with a crime committed against the court, from irregularity to manslaughter. A DSI staff may also be able to refrain from committing crimes with courage and courage to assume that even if a crime is brought to trial, the DSI will be behind them. It clearly reassures the staff of the DSI, who are employed and authorized, which means it's an incentive to commit crimes. Therefore, it is necessary to remove it from the text of matter. I'm reading the reason for the other motion in the same context: It is against the individuality of crime and the principle of duty and responsibility of a public official. No one has the privilege of committing crimes in public power and state security, no matter what its position or position. I submit the same motions to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit to your votes the supplement of Article 35: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on Article 36 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that "the addition of the letter of the map engineer, " which will be immediately followed by at least one forest high-engineer or forest engineer (or forest engineer) in the first joke, which is envisioned to be added to the 4th Article of Kadastro Law, 3402, with the 36th article of Law Bill 548 in question. Merkel Danış Beştaş Behcet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0261par0230	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0231	I'm reading the reason: Map engineers are primarily responsible for the technical expertise, such as the technical measurement of the deed cadastro studies and the reading of maps. In this direction, it is useful for a map engineer to be part of the task force. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. I submit the 36th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There are two motions on the 37th article, which are of the same nature: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 37 of the Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürkcı The signatures of the other motion are: Orhan Sarıbal Nuryat Altaca Kayışoğlu Okan Gaytancıoğlu Levent Sky Kamil Okyay Fit Does the commission agree with the same proposals? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0262par0251	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0252	I'm reading the grounds for the same motions: The change in matter is envisioned by the State Water Affairs General Directorate to extend the production of hydroelectric energy and plants by 2025. However, we think the matter should be removed from the bill in order to be thoroughly debated whether the relevant substance is in the public interest. Reason for the other motion of the same nature: It is known that thermal plants have negative effects on environmental health, negative effects on land, water and air pollution and agricultural production. Therefore, we feel that the extension will not be right. I submit the same motions to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motions are not accepted. I submit the 37th article to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There's a motion on Article 38 that I'm reading: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 38 of Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürkcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0263par0269	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0270	I'm reading the reason: The draft text is subject to a new clause with last-minute motions in the Commission talks. We believe this clause, which is not included in the first text proposed by the government, which is not seen enough in the Commission, is contrary to the method of legislation, which is added without further discussion. We predict a thorough discussion of the relevant matter and a removal of the substance from the draft text in order to act in accordance with the legal technique. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... Unacceptable. I submit Article 38 to your votes: those who accept... Those who don't agree... Matter accepted. There is a motion on Article 39: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly We propose and propose that Article 39 of Law Bill 548 be removed from the draft text. Meral Danış Beştas Sibel Yiğitalp Behçet Yıldırım Mehmet Ali Aslan Ertuğrul Kürkcı Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0264par0285	We can't agree, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0286	I'm reading the reason: The provision of the substance is related to the Law on the Order of Public Finance and Debt Management 4749, a matter that the Plan and Budget Commission should take onto its agenda. Therefore, we think it would be more appropriate for the draft clause to be transferred to the Plan and Budget Commission as a subcommittee. I submit the motion to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... are not accepted. I submit Article 39 to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. There's a motion on the 40th article, and I'm going to read it: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly It was me, number 40 (30) in the aforementioned Law Bill 548, and we propose and propose that the 10th Amendment be replaced by 10th (30) by 10th (30). Merkel Danış Beştaş Sibel Yiğitalp Mehmet Ali Aslan Does the commission agree with the motion? We can't participate, Mr. President. Government?
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0265par0301	We can't agree, Mayor.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit06spe0256par0302	I'm reading the reason: The amendment aims to clarify the material text. I submit to your votes the motion that I have made to read the reason: those who have accepted... those who have refused... the motion has not been accepted. I submit the 40th article to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the article is accepted. Thus, the votes of the substances in the second section are complete. I'm taking a five-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-04-17sit07spe0256par0001	I now open the Seventh Session of the 86th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We will continue negotiations with Bill 548. Commission? No. It's been postponed. We will begin negotiations with Law Bill 112, which is ranked in the 2nd place. Commission? No. It's been postponed. Since the commissions will not be available after this, the decision made by the Prime Minister's Office on the extension of the State of Emergency has been made to determine the measures that should be taken in our country due to the increasing causes of cancer disease, the motions made on Wednesday (April 18th 2018) will be held on Wednesday (April 2018). I wish you all a good evening, closing the assembly at 00.
