tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0001par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. There's enough numbers for a meeting, and we're starting negotiations. Before we go on the agenda, I'm going to promise three congressmen off the agenda. The first unscheduled statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Mehmet Sait Kirazoglu, who wanted to mention the 97th anniversary of Gaziantep's deliverance from enemy occupation. Here you are, Mr. Kirazoglu. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0002par0011	Mr. President, honorable lawmakers, I have taken the oath of honor and honor to be his son to mark the 97th anniversary of the escape from enemy occupation by Gaziantep. Antep defended every inch of the land, women, children, children, elders, villagers, Turks, Kurds, Arabs, and brave people all together, saying, "I'm a martyr or a veteran." Lieutenant Mehmet Sait, who has been martyred with bayonets and is honored to be his name by defending the land until the last bullet, said the enemy cannot enter Ayattap. He said, "I am married to the land of Hatice's son Shehit Kamil, who has been killed by bayonets, and who, as you all know, has been given the honour of being his name. The woman who has taken down the French with her gang, Molla Mehmet, who, as we all know, has taken down the French by the name of Karayılan, who has been martyred because she wants to protect her mother, has been killed by her mother. I am married to her country. Shehit Mustafa Yavuz, who is in love with the people; the mujahihidi Yidyat-jat-jat-jat, who are still in love with the children, and who are making arms with the children, and the only six more than we know who have been killed by him. In the case of the Antepians, the rest of the country is an example of what he fought with faith and faith, an example of our national struggle and our nation of freedom lovers, honored by our Veteran Assembly by the title and the title of the gask and the title of the will. Gazi Mustafa Kemal, a fellow resident of Gaziantep, who is registered to the Bey neighborhood of Gaziantep, has expressed his love and appreciation for every city, every town and smallest Turkish village, as a heroic example of Gaziantep. Again, Gauzantep is not just this city; it is the guide of this entire region and our country. If Gaziantep goes in the right direction, both our country and our region will go in the right direction. The President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who said that Gaziantep had demonstrated the importance of Gaziantep for the region and for the country. Mr. President, honorable friends, we have been working hard for 16 years as the EC PARTI to create a more prosperous country, to make more value for our country, to offer our people a happier, healthier, hopeful life, in a way worthy of the legacy of Gaziantep that brings our province to this day. The industrial and commercial city Gaziantep produces a serious added value for our country, with exports reaching $7 billion, carrying our domestic production and Turkish brands all over the world, particularly the Middle East. The city of Gaziantep, where Gastronomy blends with history and culture, has been on the main transit and trade routes of civilization, including the Silk Road, throughout history. Gaziantep is a tourist attraction centre with five ancient cities, Greek Castle and Zeugma, Seljuklu and Ottoman mosques, inns, baths, the Mosaic Museum and dozens of themed museums. With all this historical and cultural build-up, my countrymen will be honored to welcome every member of our beloved nation with a well-known hospitality and a rich kitchen registered by UNESCO. Mr. President, in 1937, the precious MPs sent a telegram from Gazi Mustafa Kemal on the basis of Gaziantep's salvation, pointing out today that if it comes to the high interests of the nation, the nation, the country and the republic, if necessary, those environmental heroes are ready to show greater heroics than they were in the past. In fact, on the evening of July 15th, the Gaziantepians, without hesitation, followed the call of our leader and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and stood firm against the coup, and proved how justified that statement was. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] On this occasion, on the 97th anniversary of the liberation of Gaziantep province from enemy occupation, I salute all our martyrs and veterans, our Veterans, my fellow veterans, and our beloved nation.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0003par0024	Thank you, Mr. Kirazoglu. The second word outside the agenda belongs to Mersin MP Cengiz Gökçel, who wants to speak about Mersin's problems. Here you go, Mr. Gökcal. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0004par0030	Mr. President, I'd like to begin with the mercy and gratitude of Mr. Ismet Inönu on the 45th anniversary of the death of Mr. Ismet Inönu, the 2nd President of the Republic of Turkey and the 2nd President of the Republican People's Party. Mersin is one of the most important cities in our country; he serves not only himself but Turkey, with both agricultural production and tourism and industry and trade infrastructure. But Mersin can't repay his services, all the infrastructure has been shut down. The promises to Mersin are not kept, but at the cost of lying. I'm going to give you a few interesting examples of this. We have a Dukurova Regional Airport Project. On November 5th, our Mersin MP, Albany Antmen, issued a question motion. It's not the ministers' custom to respond to the motions, but he answered this motion, Mr. Secretary. On November 29th, Minister Cahit Turhan responded to Albay Bey. In a nutshell, he says: There are two jobs in the Chukurova Regional Airport Project, including infrastructure and infrastructure, which will end on November 7, 2019. I want to point out the date of the answer: November 29, 2018. Thirteen days later, on December 12th, Mr. Funda January, director general of the State Air Squares Administration, comes to the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives. Mr. Orhan Sumer, our Adana MP, asks what happened to Chokurova Airport. Mr. January, the substructure is blocked at 40 per cent, and the tender is likely to be annulled. What changed in 13 days? It's obvious Mr. January isn't lying, he's running the business; why is the Ministry lying? We couldn't. It won't stop. The cost of construction has increased. There's an economic crisis. Why would he lie to the public defender? How many times are you going to have a groundbreaking ceremony, how many times are you going to open it? The sturgeons are tired of seeing the groundbreaking ceremony, waiting for the investments to be carried out. How many more elections will you supply the Dukurova Regional Airport with? Dear friends, we have a road that connects Mersin to Antalya, which is very important for tourism and for agricultural production to meet world markets. It's been used for years for every election period; there's no funds now, no workers at construction sites. Where's the fountain-bolt highway? What did Minister Turhan say about the highway that has been on Mersin's agenda for years? After four years, he said. You know what's four years from now, fellas? You'll be surprised, but there's a choice. Stop using the services that Mersin deserves as election material. The Christians want to see concrete investment. What about the Accompanyed Tourism Zone? The minister of time said that the investments in tourism would come to Mersin, and he would receive the tourism revenues that Mersin deserved. $800m would be spent, the facilities would turn 180m euros a year, and 10,000 Mersins would be employed. He's forgotten, just like every lie you've ever told. The Christians want to see the investments come to life now. You're bidding on December 18th to build the Fountain-Strike Highway, but not a single offer. Why? There's an economic crisis in the country, folks, a crisis! Nobody wants to take any chances. If you're capable of power, if your power is strong, you need to make this highway with state resources immediately. You're the kind of power that can't finish a one-story intersection. You're ruining everything you put your hands on. I thought it was supposed to be over on July 30th. Where's the port-floor intersection of Mersin? The organic industry will be connected to the highway. You said, you are incapable of doing so. And then there's the Ear Tip farm. Every time it rains, it's underwater. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I may...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0005par0038	Mr. Gökcal, let's finish. I didn't just give it to Mr. Kirazoglu.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0004par0040	Mr. President, please. It's underwater, the farmland, I need to bring it up. This year, we searched everywhere for pre-emptive measures; the discharge pumps came in, we couldn't put them in. Last week, the Ear tip area was flooded again. There was a Cotton Dam Project, it was going to be over in 2015, it turned into a snake story, it didn't run out of dams, it didn't run out of water. To empty promises, the Mersins have no more to eat. The Christians want to see action; they want to invest in agriculture, industry, tourism. The Mersinians are tired of waiting for basic public investments to be implemented, you've had enough of the Mersins, so please resolve these problems quickly. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0006par0046	Thank you. The third non-responsive statement belongs to Gaziantep MP Imam Hüseyin Filiz (Ghaz) who wants to mention Gaziantep's anniversary of salvation. Here you go, Mr. Flitz. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0007par0052	Mr. President, I have taken an off-the-the-top promise because of the 97th year of Gaziantep's liberation from the French occupation. I salute your high council. Today, Gaziantep is busy with the agenda of our House. And I want to express my happiness here. Dear lawmakers, the Antwerp defense is the name of a glorious struggle for the country, for honor, for its wife, for the French, despite all the impossibles and absences. How could I not kiss Gaziantep's eyes? They saved not only the Gaziantep, but also Turkey. It is an epic which finds its meaning. Dear MPs, shortly after the Mondros Truce Agreement was signed, Antwerp was occupied by the British on January 15, 1919. After their disagreement with France, in late October 1919, the British left Antwerp to the French, and on November 5, 1919, all of the French troops of Armenian volunteers had entered Antwerp. On the first day of the occupation, the French attempted to bring down the Turkish flag hanging in the Akyol Mosque, the riots of the local Armenians, and then, on January 21, 1920, tried to protect the mother of Mehmet Kamil, a 12 - year - old boy, who was killed by French soldiers, the people rose up and protested the incident by shutting down all trade shops. Kamil the martyr's funeral was like a rally. After the incident, the French commander offered his father 200 gold coins as blood money, but the grieving father stood with dignity and refused to answer for my child's blood. On the rise of public reaction, the French are reluctant to go into the city at night. The resistance has begun. The French can't afford to invade, but the People of Antwerp are fighting back with limited resources. The French have all their hopes tied to reinforcements from the Church. But Mr. Hawk holds that road with his heroes to a handful of Kovaimilliya, about 200 people. In his letter to the commander of the enemy, Mr. Hawk and his gang destroyed their fully equipped French troops on February 3rd and February 18th, he said: "There is blood in every speck of the land that your dirty feet have treaded. Being thrown to death for religion, for chastity, for liberty is sweeter than drinking cold water in August heat. Get out of our land as soon as you can. But the struggle continues. After the situation became increasingly critical until the morning of March 28th, Mr. Şahin said he could not enter Antwerp until the enemy passes over my body by rejecting the offer of the 18 people who were with him to withdraw. After spending all his bullets alone, Mr. Hawk goes up to the Apple Bridge, and I'm going to fight with my fists. He challenges the French army by saying, "Stop!" The French forces who couldn't get near Mr. Hawk unarmed shot from a distance and killed Mr. Şahin and then bayoneted him by committing inhuman acts that were unbecoming of war and morality. Mr. Hawk is a martyr. The testimony of Mr. Şahin caused the Antwerpers to start a relentless battle on April 1, 1920, in which even their enemies admired them. Abadie Gaziantep, a French commander, expressed his admiration in his book Verdundınu Gaziantep, saying: "This battle showed the Turks' determination and strength in defence and yet again his degree in defending homes with street battles. After ten months and nine days of defence, the Antalyans surrendered, but surrendered not to the enemy, but to hunger, and on the same day the Turkish Grand National Assembly, which closely followed the Antwerp defence, on February 8th, gave Antwerp the title of. Dear lawmakers, 6,317 sons of state have given their lives for this country. General Gouraud, commander of the Charachian armies, had to work for ten months and nine days to get into Antwerp. There are a thousand Gazianteps in Asia Minor. He bowed with respect to a handful of Antwerpes who did the amazing thing.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0008par0061	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0007par0062	Mr. President, I'm completing. The Ankara Agreement, signed on October 20, 1921, concluded their legendary defence story, while Gaziantep proudly watched the last French soldier leave Gaziantep on December 25th. Every town, every town, every town, and the smallest Turkish village, can take this story as a hero. It crowns the Gaziantepians with its word. As both Gaziantep and Gaziantep MP, Mr. Şahin, Marty Kamil, Karayalan and Özdemir Bey, I welcome all our martyrs and veterans who have arrived in eternity, celebrating the festival of the liberation of my Gaziantep fellow countrymen, and greeting the General Assembly with my compliments.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0009par0066	Thank you. Congressmans, now, I'm going to promise the first 15 lawmakers who enter the system to their place for a minute. After these words, Mr. Group Vice President's demands will be met. Dear Sugar, here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0010par0071	Thank you, Mr. President. In the 1876-1877 Ottoman-Russian War known as the 993 War, the 104th year of Operation Sardahan, Ardahan and Sarıkamiş, which was captured by the Russians, was commemorated on 22 December 1914 in the harsh winter conditions of Enver Pasha's forces in the Goduekber Mountains and the 104th year of Operation Yellowkamis, where some 90 thousand of our soldiers were martyrs. For the land, for the nation, for the holy struggle, I bless and thank and praise our heroes who walk to witness in the mountains of Allahu Akbar, and may their place be in heaven. On this occasion, 780,000 square miles of paradise, I thank and cherish all our martyrs and veterans who have entrusted us with their blood and their lives. Good luck with our security forces fighting terrorism in the southeast. May God give them strength and strength, and protect them from any danger.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0011par0075	Mr. Özdemir...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0012par0077	Thank you, Mr. President. On the 45th anniversary of the death of Ismet Inönu, our 2nd President, our President, the great statesman, I remember him with respect and gratitude. Dear lawmakers, Turkey's top priority today is to change the agenda of the political power when it should be our country's economic capacities, unemployment, inflation, debt-burdened citizens, minimum wage, pensioner, producer, farmer. For the sake of votes alone, society is polarized, tensions are created, people are turned against each other. The government, which implements pressure and intimidation policies on society, threatens to open and arrest anyone who explains its critical opinion, at the moment of trial. If you write as many judicial reform strategy documents as you want, there will be no concrete response to any document unless you have freedom of thought and expression, rule of law, judicial independence.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0013par0080	Mr. Gürer...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0014par0082	Thank you, Mr. President. The poverty limit has been declared to be $6,328 for a family by trade unions. Workers in our country are having serious economic problems. The minimum wage has been announced at 2.020 liras. As CHP, we suggested at least $2,200. The minimum wage is insufficient. It will be applied as net $2,200 in Republican People's Party municipalities on January 1, 2019. I wish power had paid that price for the workers. The minimum wage increase is not a figure that protects workers from increased inflation and increases every day. In fact, not all workers can benefit from this minimum wage. The rights of workers, workers and workers must be looked after by power and paid for their lives. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0015par0085	Mr. Atay...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0016par0087	Today is the 97th anniversary of Gaziantep's liberation from the invasion of the French and Armenian gangs. On October 29, 1919, our city of veterans, who had been occupied, began on April 1, 1920, and showed an unprecedented resistance for 11 months despite all absences, gave the Gaziantep up to 6,317, but did not surrender to the enemy. Great Leader Ataturk, how can I not kiss the eyes of the Antwerpians when they have saved not only Antwerp but Turkey as well? Every city, every town, the smallest Turkish village, can take Gaziantep as a hero. Ninety-seven years ago, our veteran city, who was not a prisoner to the invading French and Armenian gangs, carries the same stance and spirit against the games and terror played in our territory today with the same faith and courage. Long live the Republic of Turkey. Long live our veteran city.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0015par0088	Mr. Gergerlioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0017par0090	Thank you, Mr. President. Genocide against the KHK people continues. In the form of a trial-free execution, non-questionably discharged NGOs are unable to work in private and their passport rights have been revoked. I'd like to read the letter of a Turkish Cypriot who came to me in the General Assembly. In October 29th, I was relieved of my duties with the 675th KHK. Edirne 2. The High Criminal Court acquitted me. I have been accused of this accusation in the language of men, and they have called me a traitor, and though I have been acquitted, I have always been a laughing stock. I got away from people, threw myself into the mountains, into the fields, no one gave me a job. In 2017, I attempted suicide for financial reasons and shot myself. I was in intensive care for 12 days, and I came back from the dead, and I wish I was dead. We haven't found peace in this world, Congressman. What about our situation? We've transferred those who have made us this way to our Lord, apart from that. You are our hope. There's nothing we can do but commit suicide, I'm psychologically depressed. I've been married since 2012, no kids. My dad can't walk when he's 75, and my mom, she's old. I go to construction, I work as a worker, they give me 50 liras, sir. I went after my family for good money, and I'm going to keep running. I hope, for God's sake, you'll have to announce our voice, Congressman.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0018par0093	Mr. Bankoglu...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0019par0095	The project, launched by the Ministry of National Education in 2014, has been announced that special projects and practices will be carried out in specific schools. There has also been a distinction between schools in the form of non-privileged schools. During a visit to my constituency, Bartin, I learned that the school I graduated from, David Bakercioğlu, Anadolu High School, has been removed from the school of students and has been replaced by another school in project implementation status. I'd like to ask the Ministry of National Education: What objective criteria are being applied when the scope of qualified schools and project schools is being determined, and what measures are being removed from this list? And according to the final exam results, why would my highly successful school have the opportunity to study for the exam...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0018par0098	Dear Yým...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0020par0100	Thank you, Mr. President. The 2nd President of our Republic of Turkey, the 2nd President of the Republic of Turkey, Mr. Ismet Inönο, in the 45th year of his death, I respectfully and gratefully remember him. You know, zoning peace expires at 31/12/2018. As of the end of the year, the tradesman, citizens and companies have a lot of pay, and the economy is in decline. At the request of many of our citizens, I hereby demand that the zoning peace be extended for thirty or sixty days. Mr. President, I strongly condemn what has been done to our praying artists, Mujdat Gezen and Metin Akpınar. I pay my respects. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0021par0104	Dear Bak Bak...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0022par0106	December 25th, 1921 is an epic tale that we have witnessed the rebirth of a nation from the ashes. It is the day of honor that the Anthabites have fought for the independence of this land by calling for it. I am grateful to us for all our martyrs and veterans who have bequeathed this veteran city. Gaziantep, led by our President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, was as bright as a star in the economy as in the heroic epic. In the last 16 years, $30.3 billion has been Turkey's sixth largest province in the industry; we've increased our exports 10.7 times, we've accelerated the economy's wheel with over 68,000 additional jobs. We had 10,779 classrooms built, and Gaziantep became the fourth city with the most classes. We're building a new city with the largest housing project in Turkey, which is larger than 23 cities. I believe that the Gaziantep will lead our country to progress with the spirit of the struggle for salvation. I congratulate you all on the 97th year of our Gazi city's deliverance from enemy occupation.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0023par0109	Mr. Prime Minister...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0024par0111	Thank you, Mr. President. There has been a recent poisoning at Hatip High School in the district of Turgutlu, Manisa. 61 of our students who were poisoned by dinner were treated in various hospitals. The frequency of mass poisoning has now grown to a frightening extent. Although we have expressed every opportunity to express the need for reliable food in the public, there are still no steps to be taken, and these gaps are not filled. As a result, poisonings in barracks and schools cannot be avoided. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health how to provide food in barracks and educational institutions. How many cases of mass poisoning have there been, and how many have been victims? What measures will be taken to prevent these poisonings? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0025par0115	Mr. Clumsy...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0026par0117	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Speaker has declared that these sentences of our citizens, who have been issued on Martyrs and Conquerors Bridges, will be forgiven. The draft bill is discussed by the Plan and Budget Commission. It is the legal and verb power of the state's sovereignty over its country to enforce tax or related penalties. The 10th article of our Constitution defines the principle of equality. Laws and sanctions include all citizens, no exceptions to anyone. I ask the Speaker, aren't Yavuz Sultan Selim and Osman Gazi Bridges under our government's sovereignty? Why is the punishment of our citizens who cross these bridges not forgiven? Will you attempt as the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to cover all bridges of this provision, which is contrary to our university state structure and our Constitution? Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0027par0121	Mr. Hancioğlu...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0028par0123	Thank you, Mr. President. Today the so-called minimum wage has been set. I call it so - called because we never accept that number, and I don't think anyone with a conscience would consent to it. Give people a month's maintenance with £2.020, which means condemning people to hunger, poverty. The economy is stuck, price tags are changed every day on shelves, new increases are being made every day in transportation, water, electricity, natural gas, open or secret. If there's a crisis, it's for everyone. The crisis will pass through those who benefit from the power benefits, the patrons of allies, but the liver of a small-income citizen will be torn apart. I have one request from the ruling party MPs. Go to your constituencies, tell the minimum wagers this 2.020 lira, and then do an accounting between your answers and your conscience. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0129	Mr. Ceylan...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0030par0131	About 900,000 staffed workers have suffered a new victimization under the NGO 696. On January 1st, 2019, workers who have been permanently switched to the working staff under the ECC will receive a 4 per cent increase in their naked wages. The country is in a state of economic crisis, and its hard-earned livelihoods are miserable. We're dealing with a government model who's trying to get payroll inmates to pay the bill for the crisis. The rapid increase in inflation causes the employee's salary to melt. Is there a study in which workers who have joined the staff will be given an additional 4 per cent increase in inflation? In 2019, you have set the minimum wage of $2.020. In November 2018, when the hunger limit of a family of four is 1,943 and the poverty limit is 6,328, who can live on $2.020?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0133	Mr. Nicemansur...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0031par0135	Mr. President, in the past few weeks, we've been happy to have her brought to the land where her gypsy girl mosaic belongs. We want to experience the same happiness for the Hatay mosaics. Today, at 29 museums and institutes in the United States, there are close to 160° of Defne and Antiochian mosaics on display. Again, France has dozens of Syrian mosaics exhibited in various museums, particularly the Louvre. This is one of the most important artifacts to attract visitors to museums in America and France today. Attempts must be launched to bring these mosaics to Hatay, where they belong. Because it is the principal rule that every archaeological work, along with the common heritage of all mankind, is to be displayed in the land where it is produced. We expect this from you, Mr. President, as Hatays.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0136	Mr. Çelebi...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0032par0138	Thank you, Mr. President. The privatisation of the 1st Main Care Centre, which can produce a mass production in six months, is unacceptable with an additional investment of the Altay Tank, worth 500-700 million. Although Altay Tank has been declared by this factory to produce interim production through MSB-ASFAT Inc, why is it given to Ethem Sandzak and Qatar initiatives, which have no ability to produce tanks and obuses and have no capacity to deliver to the address? The reconstruction of this factory today requires an investment of only $20 billion, and the creation of knowledge and experience takes at least ten years. A thousand acres of land here are forest and green. Or, in the interest of land and rant, you'll wreck the first five places in the world that are strategically important to our country and the defence industry, which cannot be relocated? Is this your idea of domesticity and nationality?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0140	Dear Cora...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0033par0142	Mr. President, good lawmakers, hostility to the nation cannot be explained by humor. Speaking in a program published on an auction TV channel to the Republican People's Party, Metin Akpınar (pronounced by Mr. President) may hang his leader by poisoning him in cellars, he may die, perhaps he may suffer the bad consequences of other leaders. We condemn his unfortunate statements, such as that. As a result of a high-voluntary election by the free will of the nation, our President, who triumphed from the real public arena with the highest gratitude of our nation, is capable of being the sole guarantee of democracy, even the will he demonstrated in the attempted coup attempt on July 15th. Galiz states that I condemn this attack on the nation's will from the House of our nation, and I share with our nation that we are closely following the process of accountability by those who attempt to explain insult to the nation with humor.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0143	Dear friends, I will now meet the demands of the members of the group. There must be some promise demands, right?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0034par0145	Yes, sir, we couldn't get into the system.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0029par0146	Mr. Nightingale, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0035par0148	Mr. President, I'm going to make a brief assessment. Today is the anniversary of Gaziantep's deliverance from enemy occupation, as other speakers in our Parliament have expressed. On this occasion, we bless all our martyrs, who have given us this land, who have led us to live in this land in freedom and prosperity, and we thank our veterans, and we ask God's mercy again for those who have come to Rahmatirahman. Today, two or three hours ago, we received word. We've learned that one of our soldiers was killed and five of our soldiers were injured in the fall of a military vehicle in Iğdır. In this regard, we pray for God's mercy to our fallen soldier, and for our wounded, we pray for immediate healing. Yesterday, we were informed that another military vehicle had been knocked down in Hakkari, where two of our soldiers were injured. In the wake of these accidents and traffic accidents, these losses in military vehicles, we say, these accidents, I hope, will never repeat themselves. On this occasion, we salute the General Assembly. Thank you, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0036par0153	Thank you. Mr. Secalioglu...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0037par0156	Mr. President, the esteemed MPs, the local election process has begun, our trips have increased a little bit. The number of people we've encountered with our travels has also increased, and we face the victims of those who can't return to duty, even though the decision has been made to be more untraceable. Our council needs to show some serious sensitivity in this matter. In the language of some sensitive authors, we read about suicides that are so touching that the human heart can't handle. The way we maintain confidence in the government today is that we're dealing with a lot of people in this situation who have been rejected by false information, who have been dismissed from their post, who have been relieved of their duties, or who have been dismissed from their duties under suspicion. Our Parliament, especially our Ministry of Justice, needs to meet a very serious sensitivity in this matter very quickly with a will. If necessary, let us take the position of the Commission, we cannot face God with the burden of a man who will be cut off from his children and commit suicide because of our delay, and we can't be the reason for those who feel responsible enough to take their own lives because of the hardship of living. Therefore, the forensic bureaucracy must be encouraged in this matter, Mr. President. I've been in this business for years, like you. The coroner's office is anxious to hold off many cases in their files to avoid such an accusation. In this case, both the forensic bureaucracy needs to be encouraged and we need to speed up the return of those who have been ruled untraceable to their duties so that we can ensure the continuity of respect and trust in the state. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0038par0159	Thank you. Mr. Bilgen...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0039par0162	Mr. President, this week is the anniversary of the death of our tens of thousands of soldiers, who we didn't even know how many there were in Sarikamis a hundred and four years ago. Of course, soldiers sometimes lose their lives in battles, sometimes with bombs, in other ways, but the responsibility of tens of thousands of men, tens of thousands of soldiers, frozen to death without firing bullets in a war, of course, is the responsibility of those who rule the country, the politicians, and the commanders who command the military directly. Of course, their sacrifice, their dedication, their conviction, there is no debate about respect, but the fact that political shortsightedness, political shortsightedness, and military strategy, the fact that the need for tactical discussion is absolutely necessary. In every period of history, it's the history of politicians' mistakes and sometimes commanders' political relations that the soldiers have paid for, Sarikamis. Once again, we honor it. Again, on December 28, 2011, it is the anniversary of the death of 34 people in the Uludere, who had lost their lives in direct aircraft, although they were in no condition to pose any security threats, including children. The absence of any trial so far, the continued transfer of the case to each other by different courts, the fall of the case with a technical flaw in the Constitutional Court, and the fact that the European Court of Human Rights has finally closed the case, no doubt, is an important symbol for Turkey to face its problems as a whole, its responsible, its perpetrators, its perpetrators, and its active investigations.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0038par0165	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0039par0166	If in one country, most children go to their death with 50 lira worth of money because they have nothing else to live on, 34 people, smuggling, I think it's a shame for all of us to be condemned if the mules are on their backs with their bodies wrapped in blankets. Finally, Mr. President, without further ado, I am in debt to read a paragraph from Mustafa Ozturk, a very valuable theologian, an academic. Mustafa Ozturk is an important name in Turkey for making a truly new opening in the Islamic field and listening to different circles. He wrote a farewell letter. It's a long assessment, but I'm only going to read two paragraphs: the point of this day shows that absolute authority on who, what, and how to believe belongs to a number of congregations and individuals, and therefore the ability to defend a different religious view is no longer in this country.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0038par0169	Let's turn on the mike, guys. Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0039par0171	So the only way to continue scientific studies and to express a different idea, the only way to express opinion is to work at a university abroad. Let's see, Mustafa Ozturk is finishing his assessment of what's going on. We can't stop brain migration if we don't give different opinions to those who give different comments, if we don't give them a chance to live in this country, and we can't defend the wealth of different views in this country, we can't defend life together. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0038par0173	Thank you. Mr. Altay...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0040par0176	Thank you, Mr. President. I, too, congratulate the Republican People's Party Group on the day of the liberation of Gaziantep province, as noted by members of all political parties in the General Assembly. We thank and cherish our martyrs, veterans and martyrs in this glorious resistance, sir. In the same way, we bow before all of our fallen soldiers, with mercy, respect, and gratitude - even though it was an incident that took place on December 22nd. Gene, on this occasion, Mr. President, the Christian world celebrates Christmas Day. As the Republican People's Party Group, we congratulate all Christian world and Christian citizens in Turkey on their Christmas holidays. Peace, security, peace, happiness, brotherhood, and abundance, we wish all Christian citizens our love and respect as the Republican People's Party Group. Today, of course, there was also an official state ceremony; December 25th is also a significant and important day for the Republican People's Party and for Turkey and for the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Because the selfless and courageous leader of our multi-party life, our meeting democracy, is not worthy of hatred for the state. We built this republic in blood, but we will raise it with human beings. We honor, gratefully, as the late President of the Republic of Turkey, the People's Party of Turkey's People's Party Group, the architect of our Peace War and the Victory of Lauzan. He and his comrades must know that the republic they built, the democracy they evolved the republic, will live on forever. And the Republican People's Party considers the Republic of Turkey to be a sacred relic left to us by the great Ataturk, Ismet Inönu, and his other comrades. In unity with 81 million of our citizens, in wealth, in peace, the Republic of Turkey will survive forever. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0041par0182	Thank you. Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0042par0185	Mr. President, highly valued MPs, and I salute you. It's the last week of the year 2018 in Congress, and I wish each and every one of us well. For the salvation of Gaziantep, I also remember with mercy all our martyrs who gave their lives for this title, who were heroic in the circumstances of that day, and also those who were martyrs in Sarıkamis. And I think that when we look at the picture as a whole, when we take these titles, when we take the title, when we write this epic in Yellowkamis, we actually don't know the single lives of those hundreds of thousands of lives. The ones who built these epics are the heroics, the efforts of individuals alone. So when it's looked at today, what we're going to leave here is what each of us is doing. Yes, as a team, we are here as identities, but beyond that, everything we do as individuals is actually part of history. And when I'm at the end of 2018, I'm doing this reminder to myself, and I'm actually doing this reminder to each of us. What we're building is actually the construction of the future. Of course, by the way, it's most likely the birthday of our Christian citizens, Jesus Christ, who are considered to be so, in the world, their holidays, or rather, the beginning of the year, a holiday for them, and I congratulate them. I wish the New Year would bring blessings to all. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0043par0190	Thank you. We have a brief request for a friend or two. Mr. Cloud, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0044par0194	Thank you, Mr. President. Today is the 101st day of our local newspaper, New Adana. On that occasion, I made a promise to commemorate it. History writes those who resist, and those who resist persecution and oppression, and those who resist freedom, they write history. The New Adana newspaper, founded in a train station to resist the French occupation, gave a shoulder to the writing of a nation's myth of independence, giving it strength. Today, we have the honor of celebrating the 101st anniversary of the New Adana newspaper, which is the voice of the national struggle, which puts mortar on the foundations of the republic. On the one hand, the New Adana newspaper, which shouldered the war of independence, on the other hand, is the opposition to power, the advocating and targeting media, who are spreading blasphemous curses on all sides. Since the New Adana newspaper has absorbed democracy for a hundred years, it has survived with neutral news, with the right sense of journalism. I only respect Ahmet Remzi Güner and his friends, who founded the New Adana newspaper, hoping to set an example for the ruling media. I also thank those who have worked since the newspaper's establishment, and wish that the New Adana newspaper continue its success in its publishing life. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0045par0199	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0046par0201	Thank you, Mr. President. According to the CED report on the quarry that was intended to be opened in the mountains of Beşparmak (Latmos) in Söke district of Aydın, the local people's demands for the quarry have been ignored. They have stated that they do not want the mines to be opened in the Latmos Mountains, saying that the mines would do harm to nature, to the environment, to history, to wildlife, especially human health. At the same time, the General Directorate of Nature Protection and National Parks has stated that the planned areas and the Fivefinger Mountains are not suitable because they remain within the national parking lot. I'd like to ask the Minister of Environment and Urbanism: Will the local people's demands for the quarry to be made to the Five Finger Mountains be taken into consideration, and will the CED report be redacted before the meeting of the review and evaluation board on January 4, 2019? Thank you, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0047par0205	Thank you. Mr. Destici...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0048par0208	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you with love and respect. Gaziantep celebrates the anniversary of the salvation of our Gaziantep, greets all of our Gaziantep citizens with respect, love, and blessings on our martyrs and veterans. Today, after the overthrow of a military vehicle in Iğdır December, I pray for immediate healing for all five of our wounded, as we pray for God's mercy. Mr. President, after my speech on the last day of the budget, there have been some incontrovertible statements about my election from the PKK court. First of all, everyone should know that I, the Great Unity Party, our National Movement Party and the AK PARTY, am a proud member of our Parliament, a proud member of our Republic Alliance, which they have created to prioritize the state's state, the integrity of the country, the nation's sovereignty, and the future. Like the leader of the political party and the MPs who entered the House in our position from the other alliance. I just wanted it to be known.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0049par0213	Here, just a minute.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0048par0214	The second issue is that a research commission was established in 2010 for our late President and our fallen friends, and the results of this commission's work did not satisfy us, nor did it satisfy the public, and our demand and again, with the adoption of our Republican People's Party and the Nationalist Action Party, a second commission was established, and in the result of the work done by this commission, both administrative and legal investigations of the evidence process were required. Again, there's a study that we've been doing with our lawyers on the re-establishment of the House Research Commission on this matter. Again, I believe that this commission will be set up in the interest of the AK PARTY, the Republican People's Party, the National Movement Party and the GOOD PARTY groups. Therefore, it is not for the political speakers of the PKK, and they have not been in the past, nor will they ever be again.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0049par0216	Yes, thank you. Dear friends, now...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0050par0218	Mr. President, we have a direct call targeting our party. Mr. Lightning became polemic on the last day of the budget when he ran it. I think I have an explanation to make.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0049par0219	Yes, Mr. Bilgen, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0050par0221	For one thing, of course, here the Ipe is not a clear language, but the Civil Code is very clear. We may not agree with each other, we may argue, we may criticize, but we don't aim at a congressman's speech out of the blue, but the money given to this party on that day's closing session is not lawful. Using the expression itself is divisive. If the 6 million voters who voted for us pay taxes, the people at this party represent something. I voted against it, and I said, "This party is getting 6 million votes, and you're looking for a way to come to Congress in other ways, and that's all I've said. But whenever you object to this divisive, exclusive, segregating approach, we'll give you our answer. This approach will not go far, and we will return his statement. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0051par0223	I'd like to put it in one sentence, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0052par0224	Please don't make a fuss, we haven't made it to the agenda yet, Mr. Destici. Here you go, Mr. Destici.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0051par0227	I'd like to point out that if you're paying attention, I call it the political extension of the PKK, the political barrier. If they are not the political extension of the PKK, they will make it clear that PKK is a terrorist organization. Therefore, the matter will be closed. I don't understand why they're being taken over.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0053par0228	Who do you serve? Who are you implying?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0054par0229	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0055par0230	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0054par0232	Mr. President, we're an extension of 6 million. After all, we went to the polls in this country, despite all the obstructions, all the discrimination, despite all the pressures, we chose the struggle for democracy, and we came here. We have friends who come here from very different views, different trends, different challenges. But, when you've made this so personal, I have to ask naturally: You, Mr. Muhsin Yazıkoğlu, are doing politics on the estate of Mr. Muzsin Yazıoğlu, and Mr. Yazıroğlu's wife says in court that he does not want to see you there, that you have betrayed his case and that you have not done your part in the process of judging him. That's what I have to remind you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0056par0235	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0057par0236	Guys, let's not expand before we start arguing. We're going on the agenda, guys. The presidency has presentations to the General Assembly. Members of parliament, the Commission for Public Economic Initiatives also has 1 membership for lawmakers who are not members of the political party group. It is Friday (December 28, 2018) at 18 p.m. of lawmakers who are not members of the political party group who want to run for office. They must apply in writing to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. It's for your information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Court's external audit reports on the spending of 2017 have a review of the results, and I'll have them read it and present it to your knowledge. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly At the meeting of September 27, 2018 of the Supreme Assembly of Turkey's Court of Foreign Control Reports on the expenditures of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 37 of the National Assembly of Turkey, under Article 5018 and Article 69 of the Law on Financial Management and Control, and on the basis of the Court of Control, the answers of the executives have been discussed, and the additional review results are decided to be submitted to the information of the General Assembly. It's for your information. Turkey's Grand National Assembly Chairman Turkey's Grand National Assembly and Court's 2017 Foreign Control Reports Review Results 1) Turkey's Grand National Assembly Foreign Control Report The Court's External Control Report, issued by the Court Expert Controllers appointed by 2017's Grand National Assembly to conduct external audit of the fiscal year's accounts, states in the 2017 Central Management Budget Law, whether the expenditure documents provided by the spending units are in accordance with the law and other legal regulations, are being examined for the accuracy, equality and credibility of the financial tables prepared. During the study, the cost figures shown in the ruler and tables of 2017 were seen whether they were recorded correctly or not, whether their sums were correct, equivalent and consistent, and whether the accounts agreed with each other. In the budget, an estimated number of available grants compared with precise account results, the proportions and conditions of fitness have been checked through a sample of the relevant legislation of the spending documents based on the figures on the tables, which have been researched to determine whether investments in the programme have been carried out. The start-up grant in 2017 was $981,589.000, and was $1,046,676,734.80, along with transfers and additions in the year. As of 31,12,2017, 919,189,404,64 euros were spent, or 87.8%. According to the economic rating, 94.9% of the allowance for personnel costs is reportedly used, 94.3% of the allowance for Social Security Institution Prim Expenses is used, 98.6% of the Cari Transfers allowance is spent, and 94.8% of the allowance for goods and services is spent on Capital Transfers. The payment order documents and accounting receipts, which were archived by the head of the TBMM, and the amount in the accounts related to which they were recorded, are agreed. The income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, The heads of the spending unit and the head of Strategy Development and other personnel have been processed in accordance with the procedures and fundamentals of the processing of financial transactions and the organisation of spending documents related to it and the accounting record, It has been said that the upper management has taken care of the development plan, the annual programme, the organisation's budget preparation and implementation of the budget in accordance with strategic Plan objectives and service requirements, providing effective, economic and efficient access and use of resources. As a result of the examination of the spending documents and supplements, business and transactions have been carried out in accordance with the legislation, the bet has not been submitted with any findings and criticism, but has been recommended only to increase the rate of funding in Capital Expenses. In the Oversight Answer, which is organised by external auditors to consider their proposals, The budget in 2017 appears to be 87.8%, while the average for spending in Cari Expenses pen outside the Capital Expenses pen is up to 96.5%, while the spending rate in the Capital Expenses pen is 38.5%. The main reason that the budget rate in capital costs is low is because the project for the building that was planned to replace the Old A and B Blocks has continued to be prepared and has been saved by reducing some projects, The budget rate in capital costs of the 2019 Investment Programme is said to be a higher level of implementation of resources through effective, economic and efficient use, and measures will be taken as part of the proposals in the Foreign Control Report. II. Court External Control Report The Foreign Control Report, issued by the Ministry of Interior Property Inspectors assigned to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to conduct external audit of the Court's fiscal year accounts in 2017, states on the basis of the expenditures and documents provided under which the expenditure documents provided during the use of these funds were covered by the economic, effective, and efficient expenditures of public resources. The Court's Presidency budget in 2017 said that 257,485,500,00 euros were earmarked, that 217,366,760,86 euros were spent, and that 90.25% of the budget grants and spending figures were earmarked in 2016 were spent in 2017 and 84.42% in 2017. The agency's payments based on payment order documents and accounting transaction receipts and bank statements are agreed, The income-go figures shown on the precise account sheets are correct and equivalent, without spending on the grant, As the Supreme Director of the Court, the Court has made a high effort to ensure effective, economic and efficient use of public resources given by the budget, to monitor the functioning of the financial management and control system, envisioned by Law 5018, to fulfil the duties and responsibilities given by the budget. The spending authority, the executor, the head of the financial services unit and the accountant have made a maximum effort to implement financial legislation and implement the necessary measures, The administration's financial activities, decisions and procedures are carried out within the scope of the Public Financial Management and Control Act 5018 and other relevant legislation. 1. After signing a contract to the second bidder and the second bidder on the tender, and to the other volunteers, there were no temporary letters of collateral or documents that proved that the contract had been submitted to the accounting department, the decontamination file had not been filed. 2. Under the Law on Applying Service Contracts, there is a letter written in the Letter Opening and Document Control Book "when it should be written "when it should be written not there, nor "when it should be written there. " 3. "There is no debt to the contractor before the payment of the claim is made. There is no debt to the SGK, which has not been questioned, 4. The voluntary notification addresses won the tender were not reported to the SGK in 15 days, followed by the contract. 5. About the cost prepared for a service purchase is calculated by price outputs from private companies' websites, 6. To ensure that the originals or copies of documents that are submitted to the tender processing files and are subject to the payment order are submitted in accordance with their legislation, all documents are signed and so on. The necessary measures must be taken to complete the format/form conditions, Seven. Although technical conditions and the subject content of the cost account statements require more than one specialty, it is prepared by one staff, 8. From the day after the pre-financial check was completed, the notice must be made to the willing, Nine. Some of the tender documents prepared by the willing have not been submitted to the EKAP or received from the administration, 10. In some tenders, according to Article 19 of Law 4734, there should be open tenders, while directly procurement is carried out, 11. In some cases of direct procurement, the purchase requires a period of time, but the purchases do not apply to a contract, 12. In the purchase of some of the production jobs that have been received directly and require a period of time, in paying the price of the commitments carried out according to contract provisions, the Productions Deserve Report and Service Deserving Report were not organised, 13. As part of the method of direct procurement, the Service's Rights Report has not been organised to pay for repairs to the maintenance and repairs of vehicles that have been made. 14. With a direct supply bid from a single firm, 37 vehicles were provided with maintenance and repairs using the discount rate made by another firm in 2015. 15. In some purchases conducted directly through procurement, the certificate of examination and admission is not organised, 16. The main basis for market research on various production jobs conducted directly through procurement is that the market price research report is not included. 17. That travel cards are not being filed as part of their handover to relevant users, 18. There's no billing in various payments, no plane ticket receipts, no stamp, no signatures, no e-tip receipts, 19. An employee assigned to Istanbul has been summoned to Ankara without the approval of the authorities, and the cost of the road is not in accordance with the laws of the institution. 20. In accordance with the bill and housing costs documents, it is necessary to arrange bills in accordance with the legislation and to place legal documents in accordance with the payment order, 21. In temporary assignments for some officers and servants with less than a day's notice, the actual round-trip hours are not written in the relevant section of the service manifests, 22. In some domestic interim service notifications, the mover's fee has been declared, but no details of the main materials have been shown in the statement. 23. During the period of inspection, some international interim road notifications show the addendum of dollars, with no TCMB certificate added, 24. Some of the officers who have been assigned temporary duties have been shown not to be submitted to the office of additional documents and other officers who have not been given notices of temporary service notifications that have not been written. 25. The road advance taken by some auditors has not been closed in time and has not been taken care of in other matters, 26. Regarding the execution of an expert witness, "the amount of labor and overtime they spend on experts (time) should be based on the criteria for the application, Evaluation and advice have been made. In this framework, the Supreme Manager's Answer, which is organised by external auditors to consider the findings and proposals of control; 1-) After the tender was signed to the willing and the second bidder, and the other applicants were given temporary collateral letters or documents that proved that the contract had been submitted to the accounting department, they were not placed in the tender processing file, There will be the necessary sensitivity to the transfer of temporary collateral letters to the treasurer's office or accounting directorates after the tender. 2-) According to the Service Purchasing Contracts Applied, the Letter Opening and Document Control Charter "is written in "a word that should be written not in "well-adjusted, but is written in " The report states that the error has been made, and will now be processed by consideration of the issues mentioned in the report, 3-) There is no "SGK debt" to the contractor before the Hakedish payment was paid. The job of receiving services under payment order 3820 mentioned in the report is the job provided with the tender method, which is that the RSK debt interrogation was conducted in the period of payment, so the report was carried out directly in the form of procurement, so there is no need for the RSK debt questioning. 4-) That the voluntary notification addresses that won the tender were not reported to the SGK in 15 days, following the contract, There is no request for technical personnel from the contractor in his contract for the presidential service building, which is why he was bought off the market, which is why he wasn't reported to the head of the SGK. 5-) About the cost for receiving a service is calculated by printouts from private companies' websites, Some service pens to be bought are not found in public institutions unit price tables, and because legislation has allowed them to do price research through websites and create about the cost, 6-) To ensure that the originals or copies of documents submitted to the tender transaction files, or approved in accordance with their legislation, are signed and so on. The necessary measures must be taken to complete the format/form conditions, There will be the necessary sensitivity to the subject, 7-) The technical conditions and the content of the cost account statements require more than one specialty, though they are prepared by one staff, The report recommended the procedure for preparing the documents mentioned in the report, 8-) Since the day the pre-financial check was completed, it is necessary for the willing to be notified, Since the day the pre-financial check was completed, it has been reported to the willing to pay attention to the legal deadline, 9-) Some tender documents prepared by the willing have not been released from the EKAP or obtained from the Administration, Showing the precision required to be placed in the tender processing file of the mentioned documents, 10-) According to Article 19 of Law 4734 in some tenders, the open tender should be made, while directly procured, While the open tender should be made, it has been written by the presidency to warn relevant units of direct procurement to be more careful. 11-) In certain tasks conducted directly under the means of procurement, the purchase requires a period of time, but the purchases are not tied to a contract, In accordance with the relevant legislation, there is no agreement on the purchases at once, and if the purchase requires a period of time, there is the necessary sensitivity to a contract. 12-) In receiving services through direct procurement method, which requires a certain amount of time, in paying the price of commitments carried out according to contract provisions, Productions Deserve Report and Service Deserving Report were not organised, The report shows the precision needed to be tied to a contract in case the transactions were not arranged and the purchase required a period of time. 13-) As part of the method of direct procurement, the Service's Rights Report was not organised to pay the costs for repairs to the maintenance and repairs of vehicles. Since there is no contract with the company concerned about the maintenance and repair work mentioned in the report, there is no Service Deserving Report on paying expenses, 14-) With direct procurement, the offer from the single company was made, using a discount rate with another company in 2015, the maintenance and repairs of 37 vehicles were carried out. There is no harm in the agency's interest to include the offer of the only company in the market research report, which has been implemented in other years, due to the fact that the discount rate in the past years has been very appropriate according to market conditions. 15-) Some of the purchases conducted directly through procurement have not been provided with a certificate of examination and acceptance, According to the proposal mentioned in the report in direct procurement, the examination and admission document will be processed by order, 16-) The main basis for market research of various production jobs conducted directly through procurement is that the market price research report is not put into place, As part of Article 63 of the Central Management Expension Documents Editorial, the main basis for market research is that there is no obligation to include a report on market price research, only the market price research report is placed on the relevant payment orders, and the basis of the documents are kept in the tender files available in the administration. 17-) That travel cards are not scheduled to be submitted to relevant users, The error made regarding the delivery of travel cards to relevant users was signed by people involved in a report, and will be shown the necessary sensitivity from now on, 18-) The bill was paid for in various payments, in exchange for a plane ticket receipt or any stamp or non-signed e-tip receipts, In payment for certain jobs, the receipts will be accepted, and the necessary sensitivity will be shown regarding the documentation on plane tickets. 19-) An employee assigned to Istanbul has been summoned to Ankara without the approval of the authorities and the cost of the road is not in accordance with the law, Under Article 22 of the Central Management Expension Documents Charter, there is no search for the application of the audit staff to pay their domestic interim service routes. 20-) According to the bill and housing costs documents, the regulation of the bills in accordance with the legislation must be provided, and the legal documents in accordance with the payment order must be placed, In accordance with the bill and housing costs documents, there will be an incorrect application for the regulation of the bills and for the introduction of legal documents to the payment order, and for the notice of the relevant ones, the appropriate sensitivity will be shown after this, 21-) In temporary assignments for some officers and servants for less than a day, the actual turn-around time is not written in the relevant section of the service manifests, In the temporary assignments conducted for less than a day, wrong practices have been detected about not being written into the relevant section of the main round-trip-and-turn notifications, and the care necessary will be shown in these transactions by warning the interested ones. 22-) Some domestic interim service notifications have announced the delivery fee, but the delivery fee is not shown in the statement of the essential materials, In some domestic interim service notifications, the mover's fee has been declared, but the original materials are not specified in the statement, so the relevant attention and care will be given by caution. 23-) During the period of inspection, some international interim road notifications show the add-up of dollars, without adding a TCMB certificate, Overseas interim travel notifications show the adder of dollars to the crop that will then be added to both copies, along with the TCMB draft order documents. 24-) Some officers who have been assigned temporary duties have been shown not being submitted to the office of additional documents and other officers who have not been given notices of temporary service notifications that have not been written, There will now be necessary sensitivity in the introduction of tuition statements and the introduction of additional documents to their relevant apartments, 25-) The road advance taken by some auditors has not been closed in time and has not been taken care of in other matters, There will be the necessary sensitivity to closing the road advance, which has not been closed in the duration of the deadline, even if it's an exception. 26-) Regarding the execution of the expert witness, "the payment of the amount of time and work they spend on experts should be based on the criteria, According to the relevant regulations of the appropriation fee, precedents have been determined as well, with an estimate of an estimated fee, since the work is difficult and heavy, with the approval of the authorities and the need to increase the charge of the expert and the amount of time to work, so it is determined only in proportion to labor and overtime, as stated in the legislation of the expert fees. The necessary measures will be taken as part of the proposals expressed and included in the Foreign Control Report. It has been presented to your knowledge. There's another review of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, and I'm going to make it read and vote for you. Turkey's Grand National Assembly General Assembly The establishment of the Inter-Mational Friendship Group between the Thai Parliament and the Turkish Parliament shall be presented to the General Assembly in accordance with Article 33620 of the Law on Organising Foreign Relations of the Turkish Parliament. All those in favor... those who refuse... are accepted. Members of parliament, there is a presidential statement issued according to Article 92 of the Constitution: Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Under UN Security Council decisions 1368 (2001), 1373 (2001) and 1386 (2001) and the results of the Bonn Conference, dated 5 December 2001, it was adopted by NATO in 2001 to help improve the security situation of the government of Afghanistan and to help build its own security capabilities. The Turkish Armed Forces have been in charge of the beginning of Operation ISAF in Afghanistan on October 10, 2001, on the basis of the mandate issued by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey under Decision 722. NATO heads of state and government agreed at the Welsh Summit, which took place on 4-5 September 2014, to launch the Unwarranted Support Mission in Afghanistan after the end of the ISAF. The mission provides training, assistance and advice to Afghan National Defence and Security Forces (ANDSF), which assumes security responsibility across the country. Turkey, which has long-standing brotherhood and friendship relations with Afghanistan, has always supported Afghanistan's national unity, integrity and independence; Afghanistan has been in solidarity with Afghanistan in all areas, which ensures that Afghan people live in peace, stability and prosperity, away from terrorism. Our country, which is currently running one of the largest foreign aid programmes in the history of the Republic, is contributing to the mission under the decision of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, dated 3 January 2017 and 1133. NATO heads of state and government have reiterated their commitment to ensure long-term security and stability in Afghanistan and have pledged to continue their contribution to Afghanistan as part of the mission following the July 11th, 12th, 2018. In light of these appeals, the border, the amount, the amount, and the amount and time of time that the President of the Turkish Armed Forces had been carrying out in Afghanistan, the Determined Support Mission for NATO in Afghanistan and its continuation, and the decision of Turkey's Grand National Assembly for the same purposes, which was issued by the President of Turkey on January 6, 2015 and on January 11, 2017, as part of its commitment to Afghanistan and as part of its accession, I submit to your amendments to the extension of the Constitution on the basis of the President's provisions. Under the decision taken, I will negotiate on the Constitution of the President according to Article 72 of the Civil Code. I'm going to promise the groups and two members on behalf of themselves. Their talking time is 20 minutes each for the groups, ten minutes for the individuals. I'm reading the names of the members of lawmakers who took the stand on the counter: On behalf of the groups: Aydın Adnan Sezgin, Aydın MP for the PARTI Group; Mustafa Hidayet Wahapoğlu for the People's Movement Party Group; Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki for Peoples' Democratic Party Group; Batman MP for the Republican People's Party group; Ahmet Ünal Çviköz, İstanbul MP for the Justice and Development Party Group; Volcan Bozır for İstanbul MP. On behalf of individuals: Engin Altay, İstanbul MP Ali Şahin, Gaziantep MP. Now, the first word belongs to Aydın MP Aydın Adnan Sezgin. Mr. Sezgin, please. [[A round of applause from the good parties]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0058par0392	Mr. President, members of lawmakers, first of all, I ask God's mercy on our soldier who was killed in the accident today in Iğdur, and for the immediate healing of our wounded veterans. I have to point out right away that we're going to vote positive for the thesis. Since 2001, Turkish Armed Forces' contributions and services to peace and stability in Afghanistan along with NATO have been considered a face stream in Turkey's international relations, as part of the ISAF and the Determinated Support Mission. These duties are derived from international legitimacy, from UN Security Council decisions. The Determinated Support Mission is an expression of our solidarity with NATO (P.A.), which is an important part of Turkey's security and is part of Turkey's international identity. But this task, in particular, is an indispensable assignment to Afghanistan, and to the Afghan people, in a very important region of our country's national interests, where we have obviously established deep cultural ties that go back to centuries. There is no need to go into the history of our relations with Afghanistan. The importance of Afghanistan for our country, and the value of our relations with the Afghan people, has been established before Ataturk was established. Aside from the concept of heart geography, Afghanistan is the geopolitical priority of Turkey, it should remain that way. The Turkish Armed Forces have provided an exemplary series of achievements in every mission and region in Afghanistan and in the context of similar international missions in both Afghanistan and the world, and we should be proud of that. At the same time, our civil service agencies in Afghanistan have also carried out important works and processes. The extraordinary services and efficient administrations of Mr. Hikmet Cetin, who has served as NATO's senior civilian representative in Afghanistan in recent years, and Ambassador Ismail Aramez are still respected. Unfortunately, for the past decade, our foreign policy has been driven away from institutional traditions, certain norms, rules of international law, and regulations. Turkey's quality of being a stable-exporting and spreading country has become quite corroded, just as in Turkey, power has removed Turkey from democracy, from rule of law, from human rights and fundamental freedoms, from ethical rules. The sovereignty of democracy and rule of law in the national plan is a guarantee of international relations and diplomacy success, especially for countries in Turkey's position. Yetfih, our policy in Afghanistan is an exception, and our contribution to international cooperation and bilateral aid in this regard is a high coefficient on the active balance of our foreign policy in contributing to regional and world peace, stability, the fight against terrorism. We owe it to the State Department staff and, of course, the Turkish Armed Forces for its achievement, its intelligence, and its skill. The Istanbul Process, led by Turkey in many initiatives that continue to resolve the Afghanistan issue, deserves applause as an attempt to bring together well-intentioned and relevant parties. However, we must accept that his results thus far remain modest. The question of whether this has been caused by the loss of credibility and trust in our foreign policy in recent years comes to mind. For many years, the international community has been trying to restrain the risks and threats created by Afghanistan on the one hand, while trying to stop wild terror, blood, tears, poverty, the country's most dangerous terrorist organizations, trying to prevent drug production and trade, encouraging small steps in the path of democracy and justice, making efforts to ensure the unity of the country, but failing. The central government can only control 55 per cent of the country. Terrorist organisations control 12 per cent of the country's population, rising from time to time. The Taliban organisation has also become able to accept itself as a contact. ISIS (DEAS) is deeply settled in the country and Afghanistan is still rotting in an insurmountable pattern of disasters. Opium production is growing out of control. The Russian Federation, which rightly sees the region as an important risk and a threat to its own safety, is growing in both political processes and land. Most importantly, Afghanistan is in danger of being dragged back into a bloody civil war. On average, 50 Afghan soldiers are killed every week. Contacts and attempts by Afghanistan to reduce the crisis of trust with its neighbours without sides to the internal issues and heavy conflicts between Afghanistan and Afghanistan must be given a more stable and decisive acceleration, preventing further destabilisation of stability in the region and the deepening of the power vacuum, aid and assistance for Afghanistan must be increased in every way. Trump, on the other hand, announced that he would withdraw 7,000 troops from Afghanistan immediately after announcing his decision to withdraw troops from Syria, which is an important figure. Afghanistan today's miserable state is not the result of NATO's international community's existence in this country. The balance sheet would probably be a lot heavier for both Afghanistan and the region and the world if it was left alone. Yes, in this region, the United States and Saudi Arabia have created a monster. This beast, identified with Al Qaeda, has played a cruel role in changing world data, dissolving the peace of mankind. On the one hand, Pashtun's nationalism, on the other hand, the worst example of religious radicalism, has a constant earthquake that they combine to create. Added to that are the heavy effects of the struggle between the flesh and the tribes and the interests. Yes, the United States and Saudi Arabia have caused a great deal of trouble to the world, but does the Soviet Union, in its own way, occupy this country in a certain balance? The harmful politics our dear friend Pakistani has followed so far. Is it not possible to transform it into a genuine political will that can contribute positively to the problem? In addition to the positive efforts that Turkey has made so far, can't Turkey design new formulas by reviving its own diplomatic memory? For example, can't the United States, Russia and Turkey pioneer the movement of collective powers and minds on the ground in Afghanistan? So the result can't be achieved by a productive peace and reconciliation process? If there is no real cure for Afghanistan, that region, which is considered our territory, will lead the world to new turbulence, starting with the Turkish republics. Turkey has diplomatic energy to achieve effective results in such a solution, as long as this energy is not used in a wasteful, inefficient way. A boiling and bleeding Afghanistan wound should be able to be ended without causing greater danger. Members of parliament, Syria has often been subjected to the analogy of Afghanistan, as well as the war next to us. There has been a process in which this analogy carries very specific realities. This threat continues now with a bit of a change of appearance. In fact, this analogy was a strong possibility that, from mid 2012, it had become a source of intense suggestion and warning, unfortunately, the AK PARTY's power had ignored them and did not want to see reality in the land. He underestimated the determination of countries who have different policies in Syria. Today is the time to repair and restrain the effects of the Syrian crisis on our national security interests, stemming from the policies of the AK PARTI government. During the national Defense Ministry budget talks, on December 17th, we said that we would not be polarizing matters that concern our national security interests. We emphasised that the birth of Menbic, the east of Fırat, the east of Fırat, were delayed in the moves towards these parts, that we, as a PARTI, would support possible operations, and that the United States should not be shadowed. Trump's decision to withdraw US troops from the region is, of course, good. Trump has repeated his thoughts on this decision over and over again. There is always a race between the decision to reduce 7,000 troops from Afghanistan and that decision. As is known, the issue is discussed in the United States. We'll observe the decision's execution carefully at the maximum. However, even the resignation of the US Coordinator for Anti-DeASY, the untalented, probative McGurk. At this point, the United States is a new example of the failure of the United States to engage in great matters with unsightly, visionless stranges. If the withdrawal takes place, some conspiracy theorists will have to rewrite their conversations from beginning to end. However, the work does not end with the withdrawal of the United States, what about the weapons, equipment in the hands of terrorist PYD/YPG? Will these remain in the area as long-term threats? It seems that some of them are destined to remain, and how can the risks that they will create and trigger be prevented? In addition, other forces with competing opinions and interests will continue to exist here. There's an open-ended situation, and it's not yet possible to say that the risks we're dealing with will be reduced. We want to draw attention to that first. The decision by the United States to withdraw its troops has a serious responsibility on our shoulders and on our position, if the U.S. Secretary of Defense has a link to the essence of the rhetoric that highlights the importance of our relations with NATO and the importance of transatlantic ties, reminding us of the return to institutional traditions in our foreign policy and alliance relations. For example, DEAŞ is deep in Syrian geography, and it is a great and dangerous test to go there and neutralize the DEASH. There will surely be other dangers, other equations and pressures. Such responsibilities and tests are a burden far beyond any local elections; maximum care, caution, precision, measurement, balance, and accuracy require avoidance. We'll have to take on a different policy and a different strategy. In other words, it is imperative that power stay away from the bad habits it has brought to this day. Otherwise, it is inevitable that we will fall into a vortex that holds far beyond the risks and threats we face so far. Therefore, without fail, we need to be able to properly determine how far we can go with our dealings and partners. We need to get away from some false hosts like Ihvan. To sum it up, we need to get rid of the two-way, inexhaustible attitude that's been going on so far. Iran is another factor. Under predictable scenarios, Iran should be expected to be a source of great difficulty for Turkey. Was there not among the basic arguments that we had developed ahead of the Astana process and tried to explain to the world that Iran was building an accent, a belt, that was suitable for its own preferences and interests? On the other hand, Iran's view of the future of Syria is very different from ours. These constants of Iran are difficult to change in the coming period, and very importantly, what kind of equation will be associated with the Damascus regime and the Damascus army? What kind of equation would be built on land? In any case, the effort to establish a national consensus on the ground of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey must be launched immediately before such action and action plan. If the government's explanations are really serious, the next view is more threatening than Operation Firat Shield, and the Operation Afrin is far more likely to be long-term, and there is a possibility that there will be strong reflections within the home. In this frame, it will require a different understanding and vision. Turkey's Grand National Assembly is the best place for this vision and the most positive contribution to it. In view of the inflation rate of the 2019 budget, the National Ministry of Defence budget was reduced by 2018 per cent, according to lawmakers, while Turkey is prepared to contribute to increased risks and threats due to its various mistakes, while Turkey is prepared to contribute to increasing the amount envisioned in the bill. Unfortunately, that offer was also rejected. Now, if we run into an open-ended problem, the budget of our National Ministry of Defense will likely be subject to questioning. Congressmans, we've come a long way from Afghanistan. But during the meeting of the National Defence budget in the General Assembly, we said we did not want to make a claim on the preference and outcome of the S400 project. We wanted to imply that the S400 could not be taken or taken away at this time. Perhaps new circumstances strengthen that view. Mr. Foreign Minister said a few days ago that the system would not harm the F35 (F35) and that it would use it independently from NATO. We don't know how much that is possible, but it's possible to see Mr. Secretary of State's statements as a sign that the revelation of the question is understood by power. A reasonable and political solution must be found. Members of lawmakers, I'm also going to make a brief mention of Idlib, who's always giving dangerous signals. There is still no concrete answer to where the heavy weapons in Idlib will be evacuated, terrorists, violent militants, and which inventory will be recorded. Under current circumstances, Idlib poses a serious threat to any scenario and precautionary planning. Let us hope that this serious threat will be eliminated as a result of the power finally catching up to the most reasonable solutions.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0059par0415	Let's finish it, please. Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0058par0417	Members of parliament, the country is often voiced a beka problem. The biggest guarantee of Turkey's stay is an improved democracy, a real law state and a maximum expansion of human rights and freedoms. I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0059par0420	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Movement Party Group, Bursa MP Mustafa Hidayet Vahaboglu will speak. Here you go, Mr Vahaboglu. [[A round of applause from MHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0060par0425	Mr. President, it is on behalf of the President's Party of Turkey that the valuable MPs, the President's Office of the Turkish Armed Forces, have taken the initiative to participate in the mission of foreign armed forces for the same purposes, as part of NATO's Determination Mission for Support and Continuation in Afghanistan, and to participate in a mission that is remembered for the same purposes, under which the Turkish Armed Forces have been deployed for two years from January 6th. I hereby celebrate the anniversary of Gaziantep's deliverance from the occupation, and salute our Veteran Assembly. I'd like to start by sharing a memory with you. In the late 1970s, with my admiration and interest in my desire to learn, on the weekends, I would have joined Alparslan Türkesh Bey if he had a conference, if he had a conversation, if he didn't have a program, I would go to the Association of Enlightenment and Propertyists, where I was over 50 years old -- and I was in my 20s -- I would listen to people with certain public experience, world experience. I'd be in a corner, waiting for them to pass on information they've been saving for years, trying to get some shares out of there. On December 27, 1979, the Soviets occupied Afghanistan, and two days later, on Saturday (December 29th), I had the opportunity to listen to a professor whose name I can't remember. Three days ago, my country was occupied by the Soviets. Are you a Turk to overcome my curiosity when it comes to the QA? Where did you learn Turkish? I didn't realize I was starting a new conversation with that question. Ataturk had brought young people from the Balkans to East Turkistan to study from the region, and the Afghan Dean was one of them and studied at the Veterinary School at Ankara University, married a Turkish girl. At the same time, he said many youths had studied in Turkey and were involved in high-level public service, politics and trade in Afghanistan. To be an example of the relationship, I would like to talk about a report in the daily Judgement Milliye, dated May 21, 1928, the size of Turkey's view of Afghanistan. Afghan King Emanullah Khan came to Turkey, calling Ataturk King Emanollah of Afghanistan at the banquet in his honor: "The relations and ties between our ancestors, whose roots are based on Central Asia are very old. The indelible pages of history are filled with endless memories of those relationships. It will be seen there that the Afghan nation and the Turkish nation, side by side, have walked to the same goal and achieved common glory and victories. Afghanistan's tough and tough nature and the positive intelligence, courage and heroism of the Afghan nation, and especially the high personality of the elite ruler of the Afghan state, are a monument to certainty and power in the face of any postponement. As president of the Turkish nation that truly loves you, your nation, and your country, let me make it clear to you that it is our special hope to see your attempts to raise and exalt Afghanistan in a short time. What a strange epiphany of history, what a meaningful coincidence and resemblance to world events. In 1919, when your ruler was fighting for sovereignty in the midst of the heroic Afghan nation, in the middle of Asia, we were fighting here at the same time, in the east of Europe, in the eyes of the entire civilized world, shielding our breasts from the impacts of our sovereignty and freedom. I wanted to remind those who said, "Why do we have soldiers in Afghanistan?" In fact, this fight continues for both countries. In December 5, 1978, the local collaborator took advantage of the opportunities of his friendship with the government, good neighbourhood and co-operation agreement with the government, adding even bombs that were rigged for children, radio, bird-shaped children, who thought that he would invade Afghanistan, where he would reach the Indian Sea, to increase his ground strength by threefold as a result of the righteous resistance of the Afghan people, and increased his ground strength to 150,000, which, in 1984, was not enough, to reduce the yellow rain and liquid fire to the children's attention -- yet the Soviets, radio, the bird-shaped children -- were unable to succeed, and failed to break the Afghan people's resistance -- according to a 50 thousand Ritavae, which, according to one, had gone down to 50 thousand Rite Rite. The US-led invasion project of Afghanistan, based on the attack on the World Trade Center 2001, resulted in failure, failure, as in Vietnam, where it failed, despite chemical weapons known as orange gas. In all cases, local collaborative rulers such as Hafizullah Amin, Babrak Karmal, Necibollah are in charge of the so-called occupations. I'd like to draw your attention to an assessment grade presented to Duma in 2006. In this note, the Russians say that in Vietnam, we actually fought against the United States, but there were Vietnamese against the United States. In Afghanistan, the U.S. fought with us, but they were facing Afghan resistance. They called it. For Afghanistan, Russia and the United States, besides the geopolitical position, the country is also targeted by rich rare element reserves such as oil, natural gas, coal and copper mines. As with the Taliban and the latest DEAC example, global quarterbacks and power of attorney fighters continue these wars through professional killers. The possibility that the DEAS, which will be expelled from Iraq and Syria, will retain Afghanistan should not be ignored. The possibility of being targeted by the DEA is not to be ignored, especially by the Shiite regions in Afghanistan and Christian groups and the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces, which so far have been embraced by the Afghan people. Mr. President, valued lawmakers do not begin in the physical limits of state security, and cannot secure a country with conventional, nuclear, biological, or chemical weapons. A typical example of this has become concrete in the new national security strategy of the United States, which was announced in 2017. This strategy is built on four legs, consisting of protecting US lands, American people and lifestyles, raising American prosperity, maintaining peace by force and increasing American activity; Russia's Federation and the People's Republic of China must be described as the main rivals of the United States; we need to see that almost every country government they can't control; we need to see that it can be put on its target by describing it as a threat to its neighbours; and that it can be blamed on the territory of every organization that is considered to be the main rivals of the United States. Global quarterbacks, like hungry wolves, have all the riches they need underground and above-ground, even every country that they can control if they can't do it. As energy comes at the head of the food, minerals, rare elements, water, other strategic substances such as these countries' appetites, must not be forgotten. In Afghanistan today, when soldiers from countries fighting Afghan resistance are on different missions, foreign scientists are combining through Afghanistan's geography, saying, "What can we find?" they add their nights to their day. Turkey is extremely lacking in this regard. The Afghan government deals with a minimum of 50 years of business licenses. The prosperity level in countries we know as rich and powerful and even envy, as in Afghanistan, survives because of the poverty of the exploited countries. In contrast, the Turkish Armed Forces are there for security and the peace of the Afghan people in friend and brother Afghanistan. Turkey moves in Afghanistan to be equally close to the entire population, regardless of its ethnic origin. Meanwhile, the Turkish troops are assisting Afghanistan's national security forces, and assisting the Afghan people in security, stability and development, not outside the area of responsibility, and are not involved in mine removal, anti-terrorism, anti-drug activities. Turkey operated the Kabul International Airport during the International Security Aid Force, which ended on 31 January 2014, providing support for Afghans through regional development teams in the district of Shibirgan and Vardak Province of Cevizcan Province. Besides, they've had a lot to do with the growing of the Afghan army. The Turkish Armed Forces are still serving as part of the United Nations Security Council's stable Support Mission, which was launched on 1 January 2015, on 12 December 2014 and 2189. This mission, which is being carried out, is the duty of our military elements to extend, non-combative tasks. As part of this mission, the capital Kabil Education Support and Advice Command, including the protection of Hamid Karzai International Airport, the counselling of Afghan educational institutions, the headquarters officer of the North Education Aid and Advice Command, and the assistance of advisers to the Afghan 209th Corps, are still serving around 700 Turkish soldiers. I would also like to address another issue as we consider and support the limited requirements of the presidency with foreign armed forces, which are included in the same article, as well as the two-year extensions of the Turkish Armed Forces, which serve as part of the Determinate Support Mission in Afghanistan, on January 6, 2019. Precious lawmakers can privatise countries, especially in today's terms, for reasons such as increasing efficiency, transferring new technologies to the country, providing new capital, raising competitiveness to the desired level, reducing the financial burden on the state. In every country in the world, there are facilities that contribute significantly to the defence or economy of that country, in the event that they are even partially destroyed, or kept from operating for a continuous or temporary period of time, that can have extraordinary negative consequences in terms of national security or community life. Sadly, in terms of peace, there are parts of them that have difficulty understanding and understanding the meaning and importance of them. For example, we may not understand the importance of facilities such as railways, land roads, bridges and gates, fuel pipelines, ports, airports, radio, radiolink centers, dams, power plants, refinerys, strategic mining and processing plants, while living in normal life on a difficult day. Military factories, maintenance centers are among them, and they operate without notice, without notice. But these are strategic facilities. On December 20, 2018, Decision 481 of the Privatisation Administration issued in the official newspaper has been decided to privatise all goods and service production units of the 1st Main Nursing Factory Directorate of the National Ministry of Defence, the General Directorate of Military Factory. This facility, located over 1,804,000 square metres of land within the Arifeh district of Sakarya province, has been established over 50 years and has been subject to its experience. The factory produces Storm Obuses, day and night vision binoculars, the world's highest and longest-strength tank and caterpillared vehicle pallets, the modernisation of leopard1 and leopard2 tanks. Its efficiency is a high-profile facility that produces and sells to our own Armed Forces and strategic countries in which we are collaborating. Besides, his client's producing ready-made goods. On the contrary, it is not possible to determine the value of information and the technology developed, nor is the damage to this facility. As it is known, the primary goal of the private sector is profitability. Private sectors don't operate where there's no profit. But the government's priority is not to profit, and it shouldn't. The private sector, after a while, will withdraw from certain productions, delay some or cash out the land where the facility is established, citing the need for capital. In fact, the appeal for suitors in this facility is that there are 1,804,000 square feet of land built on it -- zero risk, plenty of winning lottery. The age of running this factory's administration is also contrary to the Article 1 of Privatisation Law 4046, which determines institutions that can be adopted within the scope of privatisation. Therefore, the privatisation of this factory could also mean privatisation of a unit of Turkish Armed Forces. By giving up this privatisation decision, it is possible to use the company currently running the Altay tank project by collaborating and contracting and producing tanks. For these reasons, I salute our Veteran Assembly with the thought that it would be beneficial to reconsider.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0061par0438	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Batman MP Mehmet Rüç Tiryaki will speak. Here you are, Mr. Tiryaki. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0062par0443	Mr. President, I have made a pledge to send elements of Turkish Armed Forces to NATO's Delegated Support Mission (ISAF) in Afghanistan, to be sent to the Turkish Armed Forces for the same purpose, to participate in the mission that is remembered by foreign armed forces through our country, to be committed to Afghanistan, to be in Turkey as part of the country. I salute you all. Now, I have a few things to say about the thesis. Before we go into that, I'd like to say a few things about freedom of thought and expression, and that's because just yesterday, two important artists were taken into custody because of their opinion. Look, we may or may not agree with the ideas of these two artists, but you know, those who say a thousand times more than these words have been released by the courts of this country to express their thoughts freely, to be set free. The courts of this country have declared an acquittal to a mafia father who says, "We will swim in their blood." Only the academics who signed the peace declaration were punished, and the thoughts of the mafia father, who said to the peace academics, "We will swim in their blood," were judged under freedom of expression. In the same country, it is unacceptable for such artists as Müjdat Gezen and Metin Akpınar to be able to start an immediate operation at the weekend because of a speech that can be criticised within the integrity of their own speech. Now, this issue of freedom of thought and freedom of speech is a really important issue because we're going back and forth every day. See, the European Court of Human Rights says that the most important, most fundamental right after life is freedom of thought and expression. Why? If there is no freedom of thought and expression in a country, there is essentially no freedom of religion and conscience, because no one can live free of religion and explain their conscience. Again, in a country where there is no freedom of thought and expression, there is basically no freedom of organization in that country. It says the European Court of Human Rights because organizations that we know can be used collectively; political parties are like this; unions are like this; associations are like that. If there is no freedom of thought and expression, then there is no freedom of organization in a country, in that country. If there is no freedom of thought and expression in a country, there is no right to a meeting and a demonstration march in that country, because what people meet for, what they march for, is to express their thoughts collectively. But unfortunately in this country, freedom of thought and expression cannot be freely used, because of their criticism, dozens, hundreds of people are taken into custody every day. Official figures suggest that an investigation into the average 500 people per month has been launched against the President for defamation. Now, we've come up with a new invention about this meeting and demonstration walks. Under Article 8/C of Law 5442, the governors think they can ban everything, everything, even a funeral service, and even go to a condolence house after a funeral and even ban reading Fatiha. I witnessed at least three of them in Batman, where I was a MP; the governor did not allow people to be read in condolences; he did not allow people to go to the condolence house. Look, we're talking about the right to a meeting and a demonstration march, and I'm not going to talk about the 34th amendment of the Constitution, I'm not going to talk about the European Convention on Human Rights, I'm not even allowed to talk about press statements that can't be assessed. So the governorship is sending police officers... you're going to make a statement about something; look, you're not walking, you're not meeting in a big square, you're not shutting down the city's major arteries, you're not blocking the functioning of public institutions and organizations, you're just holding a press conference; consider the example of our press conference in the Capitol; the governorship is sending security guards; you can't make a press statement, you can't make a press statement, you can't. I'll just give you a few examples of what I went through in a month or two. The detention of our MPs on November 4th -- we call it a political genocide operation, you may not participate -- was the anniversary. We wanted to make a statement in front of the prisons, I went to Sincan Closed Prison to make a statement, hundreds of security guards had arrived. Look, there were 10 of us. The TOMAs, military vehicles, police, vans, half a bus, hundreds of security guards have arrived, and for what? So we don't have to issue a press release. Look, there are dozens of press releases in front of the same prison almost every day, dozens of TVs broadcasting live there because the defendants of the July 15 coup attempt are being tried there, and there are dozens of MPs going to those courts, and they have made a statement in front of the door. But we're not even allowed to make a press statement in front of the prison with our three-party friends. On the same day, I wanted to make a press statement in front of the party building, look, not in a square, with my party member friends, my executive friends, in front of the Ankara province building; dozens of police have blockaded the building, wouldn't let us make a press statement outside the door. That's what this country's report card for freedom of speech is about. Let's go one step further, the cops are breaking into our party buildings. The hunger strike within the party buildings is one of the most peaceful forms of action. Look, we're talking about a form of protest that won't affect social life in any way; the hunger strike is not a form of action invented in Turkey; it's a form of protest that has been implemented in dozens of countries around the world for decades; you can find right or wrong, humanly correct, but you can criticize it, but it has joined the hunger strike. This country's report card for freedom of thought and expression is so dramatic. And when those mothers are in custody, they're confiscated, because they're a threat to each other. You can deny it all you want, but it's done for as many other purposes as you want. Say, "I've spoken to the mothers whose tulbents have been confiscated, whose heads have been opened." Turkey's certificate of democracy is in this situation. Now, we can talk about this for a long time, and I just wanted to say that in a few headlines. This is a negative picture for all of us. Ten years from now, when they come back 20 years later, what kind of Turkey is there? From now on, I'd like to tell you a few things about sending troops to ISAF. Now, let's rewind the story first. Afghanistan is a country that has historically lived the same fate as Mesopotamia, a country that has lived the entire history of occupations. Macedonian King Alexander the Great, Sazar, Akhuns, Gazans, Harzemshahs, Mongols, Mughals, Afghan lands have been occupied by dozens of communities. Although he declared his independence to the British in 1919, it didn't last very long, as you all know, the Soviets' famous intervention in Afghanistan... So, what happened in Afghanistan after the Soviet intervention in Afghanistan? Afghanistan has entered a terrible slaughter spiral. After that, dozens of jihadists were in Afghanistan, and NATO, the United States and Westerners supported these jihadist organisations in some way. Perhaps the foundation of these jihadist organizations, the jihadist organisations that spread throughout the world today, was laid in Afghanistan. Let's remind you of one. To these jihadist organisations, there are articles written by those of us in such Islamic communities -- everyone living in the 80s -- with hundreds of beauty in them; you have all read examples of them. In fact, our President, Gulbeddin Hikmetyar, has photos of him at the bottom of his knee in Afghanistan. Now, those jihadist organizations that are being beautified, those organizations that are being supported because they're resisting the Soviets, are the ones that are bleeding the whole world today. Today in Africa, Syria, Iraq, the foundation of organizations that have bled all over the world has been laid there. A new historical process took place in Afghanistan, along with the 9/11 attack. Osama bin Laden is behind these 9/11 attacks, the leader of Osama bin Laden al Qaeda. Al Qaeda also lives under the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and because it feeds, coalition forces under US leadership launched a major operation on Afghanistan. The first live broadcasts we saw were the bombing of a country with missiles -- and that's when the Tomahawks, we've always heard the names of these missiles -- a major operation took place in Afghanistan. So, what happened for 17 years? This is 2001. Later, after 2006, the NATO-led ISAF replaced these coalition forces. So, 2001-2018, what happened in Afghanistan in 17 years, other than regime change? The Taliban are gone, another regime is in place. Apart from that, other than blood and tears, these international organisations, coalition forces, what did NATO take to Afghanistan? Nothing. Now, these international organisations publish numbers, we've all seen them; this is the human development index, poverty, women's employment; children, infant mortality rates. In all of these, one of the worst few countries is Afghanistan, one of the countries where mankind is almost extinct and extinct is Afghanistan. For 17 years, we will solve the problems of the world's largest, most powerful countries from all over the world. He said, "Which of these have they found solutions." Now who do you think wants to live in Afghanistan? Does Afghanistan have the slightest appeal for any of us? Of course not. Now, there's something else that's interesting here, and I'd like to say that the U.S. intervention in Afghanistan is not generally reflected as a negative thing; no member of the Justice and Development Party or any minister, the President, says nothing about US intervention in Afghanistan, and even the same government considers it normal for us to be involved in the operation with the United States in NATO, but the United States does not want it to be in Syria. So there's no contradiction here? So is the United States good in Afghanistan bad in Syria or good in Syria bad in Afghanistan? If there is no imperialist intervention in Afghanistan, why would there be an imperialist intervention in Syria? All of you have cried out for joy, and a lot of people have shouted, and millions rejoice that televisions, radios, newspapers, the United States is withdrawing from Syria. So let's ask the same people: Do you have the same reaction to having soldiers in Afghanistan? Then what do you call people like us who don't think like you? You're not anti-empireists. We're not anti-empireists, are we? In Afghanistan, yes to the United States, no to the United States in Syria; then those who oppose it are not anti-empireists. Now, I said pain and tears. I mean, when you say pain and tears continue, not sometimes, but yesterday, there was a suicide attempt in front of the public service, at least 43 people lost their lives, dozens were injured, and it happened only yesterday in Afghanistan.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0063par0459	Do you say anything to the U.S. in Syria?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0062par0460	Because of these wars and operations, 17 years -- nearly numbers, no one knows the official figures of this, but 5 million 700,000 people are estimated to have left the country. Many of them live in Pakistan, Iran. He lives in the poorest slums of Pakistan, Iran, poorer Pakistan, poorer Iran, or third countries, Europe, other countries of the world. It is said that 170,000 of them have come to Turkey and have applied to the United Nations so far, so the number of people who have come is much more than that, but the number of people who have applied to Turkey's representative of the United Nations High Commissioner of Refugees has been said to be 170,000. And do you know what we do to 170,000 people? These are people who are applying to the United Nations, they want to go to third countries, they don't come to stay in Turkey. We don't give them refugee status. I told you before in a speech. Turkey gives refugees to people from the West, so the Germans, the French, the British -- they're already in line -- they're coming to Turkey, we give them asylum, but we don't give asylum to citizens of any country from eastern Turkey. Both of the international contracts signed by Turkey on this matter have Turkey's reservations. So, what do we do? We're trying to make it easier for him to go to a third country, but we're trying to get them back to their country. More than 5,000 Afghans were said to have been extradited from April to today. These are the unofficial figures again. There is a figure that Amnesty International explains: 2,000 Afghans are said to have been held in custody, 2,000 Afghans. These are the people who want to escape the war in his country, the poverty in his country, the fear of being killed, and we're trying to send them back. Let's go one step further, you know what we're doing? I'm telling these people who don't speak Turkish... because they're in international reports, not based on my own observation or knowledge, but I've seen documents of this, but international organisations have reports of this, saying that these Afghans, these Afghans, are being signed to return to the country. Look, these people who are experiencing a terrible drama, they're taking refuge in our country. We're bragging that we're harboring 3 million Syrians, and we're trying to keep 2,000 Afghans in custody and return them, and we've sent back 5,000 so far. This country, for my sake, is a country capable of harboring 170,000 Afghans. I think there's a lot to be done about it. Now, we're going to say no to this thesis in light of all this. The reason why we say no to this thesis is because we will have said yes to this painting of shame, so if we say yes to this statement, we will have contributed a bit to this painting of shame. But if we really want to stick together with the Afghan people, there are other things we can do. Instead of sending these soldiers, instead of the money we've spent -- because this country, this administration, is spending money that can't be really wild -- we can spend it on 170,000 Afghans; we can spend it on solving their human problems, human problems in Afghanistan. As long as we don't want to contribute to this drama. That's why we want the House to say no to this thesis. It will bring nothing but blood and tears to Afghanistan. Yes, even if we say no to this thesis, NATO and the United States will continue to send troops there. We are not the country to end this, we are not the country to end this intervention, but we may not be part of this sin. Now, I'd like to say one more interesting thing. In fact, Afghanistan does not have such rich underground resources, so it does not have oil, it does not have energy sources; however, there is a strange interference between humanity and all countries in Afghanistan. There's a lot of dissertations written about it. Some say Afghanistan was occupied to prepare for further intervention. There are those who say the Soviets are interfering with regime change for this purpose. There are those who say that the United States actually has troops in Afghanistan, not for Al Qaeda and Taliban regime change, but for further intervention in Iran or another country, and that they want to continue to exist in this country. So there's no underground source here. A public defender here who spoke before me says they're looking for all parts of the felic felic felic country, but if it was 2018, I'm sure they would have found it. There's no underworld wealth, Afghanistan's being invaded for other political purposes. Now, the famous French politician Talleyrand is one of the architects of the 1815 Vienna Congress. I'm not much of a diplomat, but it is said that the Vienna Congress of 1815 is a congress where the foundations of international diplomacy are laid. Talleyrand has a famous saying, says Talleyrand: "You can accomplish much with bayonets, but sitting on them is not so comfortable." Seventeen years of practice has shown us that sitting on these bayonets in Afghanistan is not comfortable. Finally, I'd like to connect my words with this, Benjamin Franklin. He says: "Democracy is the voting of two wolves and a lamb for dinner, and freedom is the opposition of a fully equipped lamb for voting." I say, "We will either approve of this occupation in Afghanistan or support the freedom of the Afghan people."
tbmm-2018-12-25sit01spe0064par0467	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a 15-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0064par0001	Congressmans, I am opening the Second Session of the 40th Union of the Turkish Grand National Assembly. (3/452) We continue the talks of the main presidential counter. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, Istanbul MP Ahmet Ünal belongs to the Riotist. Here you go, Mr. Quickie. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0065par0007	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the Republican People's Party on behalf of the Constitutional People's Party on behalf of the President's Office of the Determination Support Mission led by NATO in Afghanistan. I hereby salute the High Council. Mr. President, today is an important day; first of all, the anniversary of Gaziantep's salvation. I also regret the anniversary of the yellowwood tragedy. I also offer my condolences to the family, the Turkish Armed Forces and the nation of our martyr in Iğdır. At the same time today, I would like to extend our condolences to the families of our Afghan brothers and all Afghans who lost their lives due to a terrorist attack in Afghanistan yesterday. December 25, Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk's friend in arms and litigation, the hero of Lauzan, and the second President of the Republic of Turkey, Ismet Inönul. I bow before the memory of the saint. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking of current history, I'd like to share some information to remind you of the importance of relations between the Republic of Turkey and Afghanistan, which has been fighting for more than a quarter of a century. The bridges of friendship between Turkey and Afghanistan were thrown out during our Great Leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk. After it was founded, the first head of state to visit the Republic of Turkey was King Emanullah Khan of Afghanistan. The King came to Ankara with his wife on May 20, 1928, where Western countries were reluctant to open an embassy, and was a guest of Ataturk for a week. The first foreign guests of Ankara's first and only modern hotel at the time are Emanullah Khan, his wife and the Afghan delegation with him. In his speech in honor of the King, the Great Leader Ataturk said of our friendship with the Afghan people: "How strange history seems to be, how the world events are, and how they are. You are the sovereign, in 1919, at the head of the heroic Afghan nation, when we were fighting for sovereignty in the middle of Asia, at the same time, here, in the east of Europe, in front of all the civilized world, we were fighting with our chests under guard. There's no need to talk about all the grief and suffering that you and we've been through. But those painful moments for nations who are in love with dignity and liberty must always be remembered as the means to wake up for those painful reasons. The main reason for strengthening and confirming the historical bonds of friendship between the Afghan nation and the Turkish nation must be sought for the same strength and faith in the principle of sovereignty and freedom to protect the honorable assets and lofty ideals of both nations. Afghanistan and Turkey have common history in historical destiny and the struggle. The association with Afghanistan was established at the time of the Agreement of the Four Sharks, the Agreement of the East, and the idea of the Sadabat Pact, which was signed by the foreign ministers of the entity on July 8, 1937, was also referred to as the "Asyasya Pactı" (Asya Paktı), Turkey, Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran. Participants in the Pact agreed on the following issues: States will continue their normal relationship in a good way. They will abide by the decisions of the League of Nations for the peace of the world and pledge allegiance to the Union. The countries that are in charge of the treaty will not be involved in each other's internal affairs using the treaty as a front in any way. The understanding and tolerance reached in internal affairs will also continue to be valid in the protection of the previously drawn and accepted general boundaries. One of the main reasons for signing this agreement is that the border disputes of the parties can be resolved somewhat. The parties will act unitedly on the basis of common clauses in the matter of harming each other's interests, protecting each other. In addition to not being in a military or political attack on each other in any way, states in the Pact will never agree to be involved in such formations. The 7th article of the Sadabat Pact (Sadabat Pact) included the commitment of four countries to each other against the security issue that is of great importance in the region today, and it said: "Every one of the higher states, within its own borders, has committed to preventing the establishment of the institution of one of the other, or the establishment of the armed gangs, armed gangs, armed or elements, who are trying to harm the order and security in the land of this other state, to ensure that even this article is prepared by the precognitiveness and predictability of the law itself. The Sadabat Pactı and Turkey guaranteed the eastern borders. All actions that are contrary to the peace of the world are destabilizing. For the protection of this idea, the pact cemented the Middle East peace, and regional friendship was tried to be absolute. Friendship between Turkey and Afghanistan was not limited to the Emanullah Khan period. After the fall of Emanullah Khan, our Ambassador to Kabul Yusuf Hikmet Bayur presented the letter of confidence to Mehmet Nadir Khan on June 24, 1930, and sums up his meeting with Ankara in these words: "I gave my trust on June 24th." During the interview with the King, our oppressor and our lord, Reisicumhur, said, "We know our head." The Afghan people knew him as their own president. Mr. President, esteemed lawmakers, it is imperative today that we maintain the solidarity of the two peoples based on these historical brotherhoods under any circumstances. It was first adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on January 6, 2015 and extended two more years on January 3, 2017, as part of the NATO-led Delegated Support Mission. If I should open the required issues, it is important that Turkish Armed Forces elements be sent abroad as part of NATO's determined Support Mission for Support in Afghanistan and its continuation, and that foreign armed forces, for the same purposes, are returned to Afghanistan via our country to participate in the mission remembered for the same purposes. NATO's Determinated Support Mission was established after the ISAF, International Security and Aid Force, ended. So this mission is not a warrior mission. The Deliberate Support Mission was established to provide training, counselling and assistance to Afghan national security forces, which will assume security responsibility throughout Afghanistan. The goal of this mission is to ensure that Afghan national security forces take full responsibility for security throughout the country. However, valuable lawmakers must remember that in 2015, the draft text of the Determinated Support Mission submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey was scheduled to be carried out for two years. The statement was included. The fact that this mission continues its mission in almost four years is not consistent with the original plans in Afghanistan. I'd like to point out three important developments that require us to reconsider our decisions regarding the elements of the Turkish Armed Forces in Afghanistan. First of all, NATO forces have struggled with Al Qaeda and Taliban during their tour of duty in Afghanistan. Today, however, we are hearing reports that the United States, the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban will begin talks to ensure peace in Afghanistan. So that Taliban rulers even started working on it in an office in Qatar. Zalmay Halilzad, the special representative of the United States of America, conducts contacts in Afghanistan, Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates and Qatar to boost peace talks with the Taliban. This also leads to questioning the event of the International Security and Aid Force and the Determinate Support Mission. Second, Afghan President Eşref Gani announced a peace plan in February 2018, including peace talks with the Taliban, and recognizing Taliban as a political party. Although the country's fragile situation continues and Taliban is under control in many parts of the country, it is an important development that the channels between the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban are opening. Finally, the statement that the President of the United States, Trump, will attract half the American troops in Afghanistan is one of the factors that can affect the balances in Afghanistan. In this case, the burdens and responsibilities of other countries that have power in Afghanistan will also increase, and the American military presence in Afghanistan will drop from 14,000 to 7,000. The continuation of peace talks and the beginning of the withdrawal of American troops should also bring Turkey's preparation for the new painting in Afghanistan. Dear President, members of lawmakers, in light of these developments, Turkey's presence in Afghanistan must be reconsidered. If there is an agreement between the government of Afghanistan and the Taliban, Turkey will need to redesign its Afghanistan policy on the basis of this agreement. According to the official page of the Determined Support Mission, 563/63 of the 15,997 soldiers serving in the mission as of June 2018 are members of the Turkish Armed Forces. 39 countries support this mission. Working under NATO umbrellas in Afghanistan and in a mission that will benefit the peace of the region is an activity that needs to be received positively. In light of recent developments, Turkey will need to reduce the number of Turkish Armed Forces elements in the NATO Determination Mission. We need to underline this already. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, since we're referring to the withdrawal of United States troops in Afghanistan, we need to consider carefully the withdrawal of American soldiers from another country, our neighbor, Syria. As of December 2018, Syria is entering a new era. First of all, it is important that the start of a new military movement in the region does not lead to any negative. It is important to point out that the withdrawal of United States troops should be taken into account that the US-led coalition's fight against ISIS on Syrian soil is completely over and that it does not mean that all coalition forces will be withdrawn from Syria. In fact, it is noted that the other countries who joined the coalition, such as France, have yet to declare that they do not intend to withdraw their troops, and French President Emmanuel Macron has even said that the United States of America does not like the decision. As the Republican People's Party, we have come from a far-reaching approach to the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political unity of Syria. We also think that the decision of foreign military elements on Syrian soil to withdraw over time as in the example of the United States would contribute positively to the Syrian decision on the future of Syria. We, the Republican People's Party, in Turkey's neighbouring region of the Middle East, which constitutes Turkey's geography, including Syria, are in favor of resolving all existing problems with non-military means and weights on diplomacy. This holistic approach also makes it necessary and mandatory for him to engage in dialogue with all actors. In this regard, it is also important to provide dialogue between Syria and Turkey in accordance with the Adana Covenant spirit. Once again, I'd like to stress it. I would also like to remind you that peace talks in Geneva and the work of drafting the Syrian constitution are even more important in this context. Turkey must succeed in transforming the United States' decision to withdraw from Syria into an opportunity within the framework of regional ownership, good neighbourly relations and non-interference in domestic affairs. Our position is clear: We want Turkey to lead the Middle East Peace and Co-operation Organization, or OBIT, to establish the OBİT (OBIT), in order to resolve the problems peacefully, without being warmongering. It appears that an important and critical period is about to begin. Turkey is preparing to assume a new mission in Syria. As a result of the withdrawal of US forces from Syria, Turkey says it will take over the fight against ISIS from the United States. It is clear that this decision must be carried out carefully by military tactical and strategic operational planning. Because the river basin, with the remains of ISIS, is located far from the border of Syria. As we prepare for this type of action, the US will need to receive effective logistics and intelligence support. We want to hope that these preparations are being carefully done based on sound foundations. The decision by Americans to withdraw from the region without the full extent of ISIS must be carefully assessed as to what merits are behind it. According to the latest reports, the Syrian regimes have entered Menbic from the southwest against the Free Syrian Army, which is moving from the north towards Menbic. As in Idlib, Turkey is on its way to a face-to-face encounter with Syrian regime forces. These are critical developments that need to be taken care of. It is our duty to make these warnings. Mr. President, I'm afraid the Middle East has turned into a bloodbath today, as it did yesterday. Countless jihadists have emerged, regional stability and security have been eliminated. Turkey has been deprived of its ability to be an impartial region in the Middle East. In Syria, we saw a sad turn of events. In the coming period, we hope that sanity will dominate our Syrian and Middle Eastern policies. Yesterday, the roommate of the assassin who staged the Reina attack appeared, appeared on the news, and you've seen it. The suspect caught with a fake Syrian identity in Seyhan district of Adana has been found to have been operating on behalf of Al Qaeda terror organization in Chechnya in 2011, entering Turkey after being searched in 2013, and returning to Syria for a brief period of time, a year later, to act on behalf of the same organization. Furthermore, there is information that the suspect who was released to Egypt in 2017 on suspicion of a warring terrorist, has been brought back to Turkey with a fake passport last January and has been illegally sent to Syria to fight alleged jihad on behalf of terrorist organization Al Qaeda, the Fatih El Damascus front and the Committee Tahrir al-Sham terrorist organisations. This person is also reportedly preparing for action in the new year. This is the last concrete example of how the wrong policies followed in the Middle East made Turkey the target of terrorism. Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I would like to point out that the Republican People's Party is going to vote positive this time, despite all the negatives that we are involved in, both in Syria and in the Middle East, in the hope that the conflict will turn into a peaceful way. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0066par0037	Dear friends, now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Volcano Bozır. Here you go, Mr. Bozır. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is 20 minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0067par0041	Mr. President, I have taken a pledge on behalf of the EC PARTY Group to participate in the mission of foreign armed forces for the same purposes, which is being sent abroad as part of NATO Support Mission and the continuation of the Turkish Armed Forces in Afghanistan, which will be carried out by the President, on behalf of the President of Turkey and on the basis of the provisions that will be possible. I salute the High Council. Mr. President, in light of the international developments we have faced in recent years, it is clear that Turkey is unable to remain silent and monitor a proactive and effective foreign policy regarding these developments that affect its geopolitical position and international power and influence across the world. A long-standing friendly relationship with countries in different parts of the world stemming from our country's radical past remains the priority of Turkish foreign policy; showing the solidarity required by these relations has become even more important in the face of global and regional developments in recent years. Turkey's historical relations with Afghanistan and the Stable Support Mission in Afghanistan are part of that priority. Turkey and Afghanistan are two sister countries with long-standing historical ties. Our country has always supported the national unity, integrity, and independence of Afghanistan; it has always been in solidarity with Afghanistan for Afghan people to live in peace, stability and prosperity. Our country has established its understanding of the alliance with Afghanistan in 1921. Our country, which has been aiding Afghanistan since the first years of the Republic, is also running the largest aid programme in our republic's history in Afghanistan. Our support for Afghanistan will continue with this understanding. To sum up our support efforts, it is possible to count the following issues: Turkey has supported the modernisation efforts of Afghanistan, and has played an important role in developing state institutions in basic areas such as property in Afghanistan, military, culture, education and health. In Afghanistan, the total value of our assistance programme since 2004 has exceeded $1.1 billion. More than a thousand projects have been carried out in every province in the country. Our country continues its support in all areas, especially in education and health, primarily for young people and women. In the field of education, more than 3,000 Afghan students have been granted the opportunity to complete higher education in Turkey on scholarship. For the 2018-2019 education period, Afghan students were granted 307 higher education scholarships. The project at the Turkish-Afgan University will be an important step towards further relations between the two brothers in the area of higher education. Turkey has pledged $150m in development aid to be used for project-based use for the 2018-2020 period at the Brussels Conference on Afghanistan in 2016. In 2018, he continued to support Afghanistan, as part of the Heart-Turkish Process of Asia, in which our country was co-chaired for the 2nd time. When the Istanbul Process was launched by our country's initiative in 2011, it was the only dialogue platform that could bring all countries in the region and countries in Afghanistan together at the same table. The process remains so today. Mr. President, it is important that the international community continue to support Afghanistan, security, capacity formation and development as well as Turkey's contributions. The progress of the international community, particularly NATO and the United Nations, in Afghanistan, is yet fragile. Therefore, the support of countries in the region and the international community must continue until peace and stability are restored to sustainable foundations in Afghanistan. Our country has also joined the International Security and Help Force (ISAF), which was launched in 2001, under NATO leadership to ensure stability in Afghanistan. As you know, the International Security and Aid Force, which was established in 2001 under the UN Security Council's relevant decisions and the results of the Bonn Conference, was taken over by NATO on 11 August 2003. The Turkish Armed Forces took part in the ISAF from the beginning of the operation, with the Turkish Grand National Assembly's decision, dated October 10, 2001, and carried out its contributions in a comprehensive manner after NATO took over this operation. As part of the mission, our country has long received important tasks by contributing to the ISAF command and the Gazi Military Training Centre at the Kabul Regional Command and the NATO training mission in Afghanistan. Vardak and Cevizcan have established two zoning teams in Vardak and Cevezcan. In addition, an intensive training programme covering thousands of personnel for Afghanistan's police and military has been carried out by our relevant institutions. Our contributions have been a consistent indicator of our long-standing solidarity with Afghanistan and obligations stemming from the North Atlantic Agreement. Operation ISAF, which has been under NATO leadership since 2003 and is the longest and most comprehensive action outside of Euro-Atlantic geography, was completed on 31 December 2014 in accordance with NATO state and government heads' decision at the 2012 Chicago Summit. It was also intended to allow Afghans to take the lead in security as a means of running for progress in the country, while Afghanistan continued its guidance and training for national security and defence forces. Turkey is one of the four leading countries under this Determinated Support Mission. In the north of Germany, in the west of Italy, like the responsibilities of the United States of America in the south and east, Turkey has claimed the responsibility of the framework country in the Kabul region uninterrupted since 2015. In addition, the business and security responsibility of the Kabul International Airport has been taken over by our country since January 2015 as a run for our country's responsibility. The decision to continue our responsibility to Kabul International Airport in 2019 was made in October 2018 at the NATO Defence Ministers' Meeting, and was announced by Mr. Secretary of Defense. Our training programmes for Afghan security forces and military in Turkey and Afghanistan continue as well. As part of the financial support given by all allies to support the fiscal sustainability of Afghanistan's national security and defence forces, the country contributed $60m for three years during the 2015-2017 period. The continuation of commitments to aid national security and defence forces in the 2018-2020 period was one of the key decisions made at the NATO Warsaw Summit in 2016. It was announced at the Warsaw Summit, where our country's financial contribution in the period 2018-2020 would continue at a total of $60m, including $20 million each for three years. In this case, our contribution to the 20 million dollars promised for the year 2018 has been transferred. We already have 469 personnel from our country in Afghanistan as part of the Determination Support Mission. Mr. President, despite all efforts, the security situation in Afghanistan remains fragile. There is no peace yet, and the attacks continue. You know that 43 people were killed in the attack yesterday in Kabul. However, I find it helpful to point out the positive developments. The parliamentary elections held on October 20, 2018 were an important step. The successful implementation of the presidential elections in the spring of 2019 is also important in terms of the environment for political reconciliation in Afghanistan. It is clear that permanent peace and stability in Afghanistan will be achieved only among Afghans and will be provided with a political agreement that will be supported by the region's countries and the international community. To this end, Turkey supports peace and reconciliation efforts under the leadership and ownership of Afghans. In Afghanistan, security and stability are essential for regional and global peace and prosperity. The need for NATO's support for Afghanistan is still necessary. At the NATO Summit in Brussels, which was carried out on 11 July 2018, the Allies reiterated their commitment to ensure long-term security and stability in Afghanistan, stressing that the Determinated Support Mission has successfully carried out national security and defence forces' training, assistance and advice activities. We must not abandon or abandon Afghanistan, which is of great importance to our country, at this delicate and fragile time in which it is passing through, neither at a bilateral level nor within NATO. As part of NATO, it is important that Turkey continue its leadership for aid and support of Afghanistan. Mr. President, I'd like to point out some issues regarding recent developments in Syria, as the high-profile lawmakers address the speakers before me. The decision of the United States of America to withdraw from Syria has a very decisive role in the leadership and diplomacy shown by our President in the process. I'd like to emphasize that one more time here. Because the phone call made on December 14th led to an important decision that changed the course of the entire process. As a result of this phone call, the process of the withdrawal of the United States of America from Syria began on December 18th. This makes it necessary to reassess many balances in the field and to negotiate new elements by nature. At the moment, our work in this direction continues to be intense. Under the latest developments in Syria, there is significant activity at the border line, but we will continue to remain on the field and at the table. The most fundamental principle of Turkish foreign policy and security policy is already being on the table and in the field. When we said that we would continue to be at the table and in the field simultaneously, there were really important examples of this in Syria. In the Astana-Sochi process, the most important images of being on the table and on the field were in Operation Olive Branch and Fırat Shield, in Cerablus, Afrin and Idlib, and in all other areas. We're starting to get the results of this on the table and on the field. As my dear colleague, who spoke before me, the power in diplomacy is no longer a force of diplomacy unless it is supported by military and state power, so Turkey is developing the opportunity to gain space in the diplomatic field as well as with its military achievements and decisive attitude. Therefore, just diplomacy, but no military action. Let everything be resolved in the field of diplomacy, but let Turkey not be strong. There is no way to achieve any success in diplomacy when it is carried out by reason. He also referred to Idlib as the speakers before me. The latest situation in the Idlib region is that we already have 12 military observation points in this area. We continue to investigate our military presence here as part of the contract, where our soldiers will continue to remain. With local elements, they will provide security and stability around Idlib. In some circles, speculation has been made that with the withdrawal of the United States from Syria, the DEAS will find a new place of life. The speakers before me also expressed some statements from the Assembly's bench in the context of these speculations. In the fight against DEAŞ, as a member of the international coalition, I would like to rephrase that we will not allow this to happen in Syria or Iraq territory or anywhere else. Once again, I would like to underline that Turkey is the most intense and decisive country that has ever fought with this terrorist organization. More than 3,000 DEAS, Turkish Armed Forces and the Free Syrian Army, which are immediately on our border at the Battle of the Fırat Shield, have been neutralized within the framework of Operation Firat Shield, creating a very important environment, the first coup against DEASK and the beginning of the end of the DEAŞ. From that day forward, there was not a single DEAC on the Cerablus-El Bab line after Operation Fırat Shield. In addition, based on the safe zone and the peace provided here, 180,000 of our Syrian brothers and sisters in our country have decided to return to their homes and live in peace today. In an environment in which some European countries boast of taking 1,047 refugees into their homes, the fact that 180,000 Syrian brothers have been deployed in this secure area also reveals how accurate a policy has been followed and the importance of operations. In the Afrin region, there is no such thing as DEAC elements. This shows how important it is that Turkey's action in Afrin, especially in fighting terrorist organisations, saves that area from another terrorist organization, the PYD. The city of Afrin, with 500,000 inhabitants, we will not cooperate with you. After two days of the testimony, 80 thousand residents of Syria returned to their territory and returned to their homes, as the area of Cerablus had been cleared of the PYD terrorists today.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0068par0062	They weren't Afrines.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0067par0063	As a member of both the Geneva and Astana process, Turkey is also making efforts to resolve the Syrian crisis through diplomatic means, and one of the most important consequences of the Astana process is the establishment of the constitutional commission. In fact, one of the key decisions made at the four-way summit in Istanbul on October 27th was the establishment of the constitutional commission before the end of the year. And so, as of last week, this target was fulfilled. Political, diplomatic processes related to the Syrian crisis will also contribute very seriously. Mr. President, in accordance with this framework that I've drawn, I've been trying to put to you both about our region and Afghanistan and its environment, and as a matter of fact, we've agreed to vote in favor of the AK PARTI Group on the deployment of the Turkish Armed Forces to take part as part of the Determinated Support Mission, which is important for the peace and stability of Afghanistan and non-existent. I salute the General Assembly with respect and love.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0069par0067	Thank you. Now, we're going to talk on behalf of the individuals. Istanbul MP Engin Altay. Here you go, Mr. Altay. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0073	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressmans, I salute the General Assembly. We're meeting with a presidential thesis. Since 2001, Turkey, along with international forces, has made great sacrifices for its contribution to peace at the point of trouble in Afghanistan. From 2001 to 2014, an international force, known as the International Security and Help Force, tried to maintain peace in Afghanistan. Of course, here's the thing: Mr. President said the day before, Russia gives a Muslim a gun, America gives a Muslim a gun; one bores Allahu akbar! the other dies. The other squeezes Allahu akbar! The other one dies! The other one dies! So we all have work to learn from here. And now, of course, as part of the Determinate Support Mission, Turkey, I believe, will perform a mission in Afghanistan with the elements of our Armed Forces around 560. Mr. Vice President has declared the party's understanding of our party and that we are going to vote hard on this issue to General Kurula and our great nation. Now, of course, we're talking about this thesis here for the peace of Afghanistan, for the peace and quiet of the people in Afghanistan, but let's see that the peace of peace in Turkey is going on every day, one day or another -- for this reason -- in the unlikely direction. Now, dear friends, I'd like to transfer three quotes to you, Mr. President, if I may. I'd like to start with the memory of the late Solomon Demirel, who was also my fellowman, Yaşar Topçu. Mr. Yasar was Prime Minister of Demirel in 1979. In a small town on the coast of Antalya, a citizen publicly cursed the late Demirel in the middle of the coffee shop. Since he was Prime Minister, according to the penal code at the time, prosecutor resen launched an investigation. In law, we call that an insult in the form of substance abuse. He had him arrested, arrested, and put away because it was a big insult. That day at the party, Chief of Staff Talat Bey Demirel told me that Demirel had called me. I did. He asked if there was anything important? I'd also like to report nothing important, but I'd just like to point out that in a district of Antalya, a citizen insulted you in the coffee shop, said some heavy, loose words. They arrested the citizen. The court asks if you are complaining. I told him the situation. These judge and prosecutor friends sometimes miss the top of the cantar. Would a citizen be arrested for insulting the Prime Minister? We're sitting here, we don't know. Who knows how we bore the man with our practices, so he called us "gay curses." And then he turned to me and said, "Go straight back to Antalya, that county as a lawyer and get that citizen out of jail and get him out of jail. All of a sudden, a citizen of a country doesn't insult his prime minister. Who knows how much we've bothered him with the work we've done, how he's overwhelmed, how he's cursed at us. It's a matter of approach, of course. So it's not Turkish tradition that politicians are tolerant, it's a tradition in the world. Now there's an example. There's another one. But the late Mahzuni is the Prime Minister, but the late Mahzuni Sheriff does a song for the late Nihat Erim that says, "Let the erim melt/Sirem be released." We know that, and I've heard this -- of course, there will be a trial, Nihat Erim says:.... the artists and citizens criticize the prime ministers...... it is also a matter of approach. Let me give you another example of an approach. Let's skip the French, let's give it to Turkey again, and France has that kind of tolerance. At the time when state artists were disbanded -- Mrs. Aylin -- was it here, again, in the good PARTI -- that some artists accepted this with great pleasure during the Ironel period, while some artists also rejected the award, saying, "Will there be so many government artists?" and they make negative assessments, an artist does that. Years later, the artist who rejected the prize given by Demirel is taken to the hospital and Demirel will be informed of it, saying that he had to deal with this artist, a great artist raised by Turkey, a great artist, who is currently serving as Isparta MP in our parliament -- who is now a member of the Parliament -- who has asked her to take care of this artist, and everything is done and is done, and that artist Aylin Hanım, who you now care about, had once criticised you, turned down state art. [[Applause from CHP and GOOD PARTY]] Many of our MPs have had a trial with me, and our arguments are multiplying, thank God, alhamdulillah, and my God is giving more and more. Now I'd like to show the General Assembly some cartoons about past political leaders. There's the Iron groom, the late Erdal Inönu in the bride's dress. Down here, you see Turgut Özal. Turkey has seen this. There's a satirical cartoon of Demirel, Ecevit, and Erbakan. Turkey has seen this. In this way, the deceased, Ozal, has a cartoon on top of the citizen; Turkey has seen it. Such cartoons were published in the Lemon of the late Ozal, which is you, if it were you. They didn't get sued or anything. Now, dear friends, if we want peace in the country, if we want to be in a national context, the politician has the obligation to be tolerant and to read the message of people, especially artists, correctly.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0071par0086	It's transmitting a pulse.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0087	Just a minute, brother. No insult, no insult, of course. I've said what Mujdat Gezen had said on this stand a hundred and ten times. I said... what did Müjdat Gezen say? He scolds everyone, he shakes his fingers at everyone, and he tells people, "Know what you're doing!" Look, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, you can't test our patriotism. Ask, that's it. Recep Tayyip Erdogan has no way of testing anyone's patriotism, including his children. On the one hand, what I understand is... oh, I said something here in the budget, you were making a lot of noise there, and it went loud. I said, "If Recep Tayyip Erdogan tries to be removed from his position in a non-democratic way, I will take the lead there before you." [[Get out of the AK PARTY rows!]] Who the hell is that? That's a shame, that's a shame!
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0072par0092	You said you did.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0093	I'll... I'll take the front. I said, I agree. I'm a man who denies any kind of impact, and I'm a man who's got a rifle in his mouth and a mechanism running. Okay? Now, I said, let's hold on to the rope of democracy, there's no other rope, if we lose democracy, there'll be chaos in the country, and the only mechanism that will put Recep Tayyip Erdogan in peace in that chair is democracy. If today Erdogan has to go out on the street with 3,000 people, it's because of the weakness of democracy, my dear friends. If we had a steady democracy, Recep Erdogan would come out on the street with 30 guards, not 3,000 people.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0073par0095	Excessive. There's a limit to the exaggeration.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0096	Yes, dear, in the afternoon, here's 300, 400, 500, and a thousand, but that's it. For God's sake, there's a thousand guards at the Mermerli Salon on Tuesday. Could it be a president who came into the House with a thousand bodyguards? No. Democracy, democracy, democracy. During the time he was elected to Erdogan, he was the only power, the only ability, the only leverage, that would hold him in that seat for five years. But Erdogan, with his intolerance, with his hatred, with his arrogance, and with his practices... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] May I, Mr. President?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0074par0099	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0100	...talking Turkey is fast driving it away from doing it. If Turkey doesn't talk, if it can't talk, there's chaos, we can't understand each other, our prejudices grow like mountains, and if we talk, we destroy prejudices. It's the only way.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0075par0101	An invitation to a coup...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0102	Whoever's calling for a coup, God damn it. But should I tell you who's destroying democracy, God damn him, too? We don't want any trouble, brother. There's a fact. There's nothing in Mujdat Gezen's house anyway, a word that everyone should say, what Mujdat Gezen said, everyone. When Metin Akpınar said it, I did not read in this text that there was an intentional call for a coup, that there was a coup intended for a coup. Besides, we're reading from the PATIENTs. My dear, you're well-behaved, you're well-behaved, you're well-read. (CHEERING) You have doubts. From here again, from this House, before you... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I was going to call Mr. Erdogan, and the president shut me down.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0076par0105	I'm hungry, you've got no excuses.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0106	I swear to God, Mayor, make this call and we'll do it. Mr. Erdogan, the only way to stay safe there for as long as the nation has given you is to take care of democracy, to strengthen democracy. Like this, with fear, with this, you'll ruin your peace with this, and you'll ruin everyone's peace. I salute the General Assembly, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0077par0110	From the definition of democracy to the coup d'état.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0070par0111	We don't buy armored vehicles for the coupgers, you take them, don't make me talk.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0077par0113	I'm not talking to you. Open that speech.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0078par0114	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0079par0115	Mr. Rich...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0078par0118	Mr. President, we have listened to our esteemed MPs, Mr. Altay. To be honest, I must say, I admire your ability to come here in the first place. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Now, I'd like to make a few things clear. He expressed himself in his speech, meaning: "If there is anything directed toward the attack, it will be me. " When I listened to his speech - I listened to his speech - in the budget negotiations - it was already on my mind. That's why I'm glad we're united here. So I find the point that comes years later important in terms of Turkey's democracy. Now, at the point where...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0080par0122	It was like that years ago.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0081par0123	One cut, one cut!
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0078par0124	For once, I think you're missing what happened in the AK PARTY while you're following your own agenda, you're missing what our President did. I'd like to make a reminder that perhaps Mr. Altay would have been able to say there if he had had had the time: on 1 August 2016, Mr. President withdrew 4,000 cases from here in terms of criminal and legal litigation. We're not talking about 1, not 2, we're talking about 4,000 cases. We talk about criticism all the time here. We have no objections at all. I also watched the speech made by Metin Akpınar (Metin Akpınar) from beginning to end. Criticism has its criteria for reading intent. So according to this AK PARTY, there's no other, according to CHP...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0082par0127	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0078par0128	The criteria for what intent is can only be within the framework of the law. So when we listen to one conversation, we're going to decide, we're going to look at the law, not another approach that we don't like. If you look at it in the eyes of the law, the most fundamental thing about these talks is that it's already devalued democracy. I, Mr. Altay, would like to remind you that not only does power need democracy, but opposition needs democracy. For all of us to be able to speak, each of us has to be positioned in the definition of democracy -- both the economy and the power. When you look at this conversation, what you're feeling is that, in terms of power, legally, it's not a way to go through democracy, it's a way to suggest another way. When it's looked like this, I think it's a troubled conversation, and the law will decide what it is. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0083par0135	Yes, he will now speak for himself, Ghaziantep MP Ali Şahin. Here you go, Mr. Hawk. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0084par0139	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of myself about the presidential administrator who has come to our House for two years to renew the contribution of the TSK elements to the Determination Support Mission, which was carried out by NATO in Afghanistan. I hereby salute your high council and our nation. Today is the 97th anniversary of the salvation of our veteran city, Gaziantep. As a son of the Gazi city, I salute our veteran city, all our martyrs and veterans. Again, this is Afghanistan. Unfortunately, we lost 43 Afghan brothers last night in Afghanistan after a suicide attack in front of the government building. I wish God's mercy to 43 Afghan brothers who lost their lives, and an immediate healing to the wounded. When the esteemed MPs describe the geographer Afghanistan, the heart of Asia defines the heart of Afghanistan; when we actually open the map and look at Afghanistan, in the middle of an entire Asia, we find a heart-shaped map. The strategists or historians consider Afghanistan to be Asia's watch tower, Asia's control tower, and they say that Afghanistan, on the other hand, controls Asia (Afghanistan), its neighbourhood to India, on the other hand, its neighbourhood to the former Soviet Union, to the new Russia, is really an observation tower of Asia. In this sense, it also has a very important strategic presence in Turkey. Given our historical missions, our historical ties, Afghanistan is a border outpost of influence and culture geography for Turkey. In fact, today's Ankara is Kabul, today's Gaziantep means Grave Sheriff, today's Toros means the Toros mountains are as close and precious as the Hindu Kush Mountains. Dear friends, from this point of view, when I think about where our boundaries are from time to time, I come to the conclusion that Turkey and this nation, the ancestors of this nation, have been martyred in exactly 78 places on earth. This message tells us that the boundaries of our great nation in this geography are all geography between the east and the west and the south, where the last drop of our ancestors' blood drips and gives their last breath; these geographys form the boundaries of our influence, culture and civilization. As Turkey, we have three important geographys, three important limits. The first is Turkey's border, which is 780,000 square miles of life today, which is our nation's borders. Our second frontiers are the borders of the community, which is our borders of civilization. Our third frontier is the human limit. From this point of view, this Parliament is the Parliament of all human geography, not only of the people living in this geography, but of a whole community of geography, who find themselves oppressed and feel that it belongs to this geography. Dear friends, the subject of our thesis, the Turkish Armed Forces, as in many parts of the world, are also taking over the mission in the sister country, Afghanistan. However, the presence of the Turkish Armed Forces in Afghanistan must be separated from the armed forces of other countries who have served there. The Turkish Armed Forces are never seen as a foreign and invading element in Afghanistan. Therefore, despite the past 14 years, the Turkish Armed Forces are the only non-violent and occupying force not considered to have been attacked in Afghanistan. Therefore, military troops from other countries choose from time to time to patrol vehicles and from time to time to camouflage the Turkish flag, the Turkish flag, the flag of this saint nation, to do their patrol duty safely. At the same time, the Turkish Armed Forces have taken on many humanitarian missions there. Education, health, restructuring of the government of Afghanistan, and restructuring of Afghan security services have also taken on important missions. So the uniform of the sons of this country is just a military mission in Afghanistan, more than a military mission. When we get to this point, I want to share with you a historical anecdote, a case, to show you how a Turkish soldier's uniform can be a deterrent on earth, how it can play a role at the point of stability. In the 18th century, the Germans were sitting on one side of the Rhine in Mülheim, Germany, and the French on the other side. Every year, the French cross the German part of the river and take all the crops away. The weak Germans, who were unable to secure their unity at the time, did not have the ability to resist it. Every year, the Germans write the cure to the Ottoman Sultan and ask for help. The letter says: "The great Sultan, the French persecute us every year, taking away our crops: You are the sultan of an empire that distributes justice to the world, and the Caliph of Islam. Release us from this persecution, send troops, allow us to harvest our crops, even this year. Only a soldier's suit is enough, and with an answer letter, three sacks full of soldier's clothes are sent. Confused Germans take the sack and read the letter. ▪ French are cowardly men. We don't have to send them a new one, they just need to see our new one's clothes. Put on your men the clothes of the Ottoman soldiers in the sack, and pass the harvest time around the river where it will be seen. This is enough for the French who see from across the street. The owners of the vineyard immediately take on Ottoman soldiers' clothes. In the harvesttime, they begin to walk along the river in their new clothes with great excitement. The next day, news from across the street will cause the Germans to scream for joy. The French, who think the Ottomans are coming for help, leave their villages and flee into the interior. This event lays the throne in the hearts of the Mülheimites, and then they put their new clothes on and visit them in the Karlsruhe Museum of Mülheim. His deterrent role, played centuries ago by Ottoman soldiers, is today played in the steppes of the Turkish soldier, his uniform, and his flag. It is fitting that we should be honored with our ancestors and with our soldiers. Dear friends, there's not much time left, and finally, I want to point out that it seems that we need to solve the Muslim neighborhood's problems by creating Muslim neighborhood solutions. We have to find solutions to Muslim neighborhood problems through Muslim neighborhood children's Muslim neighborhood mechanisms. With this solution mechanism, I'm sure we'll have developed a serious solution mechanism not only to Afghanistan, but to the problems of not only Iraq, but to the problems of an entire Middle East, an entire Africa.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0085par0151	Just one more minute, Mr. Hawk.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0084par0152	I hereby ask that the presence of the Turkish Armed Forces in Afghanistan be a blessing, and I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0085par0154	Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0086par0155	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0085par0156	Let's vote on it. Let's vote on it. Dear friends, negotiations have been completed on the presidential paper. I will now submit the thesis to your votes: those who accept... those who do not... are accepted to the counter. Good luck with that. Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0087par0163	Mr. President, I think I should at least make a statement on our behalf, since the opposition parties have been referred to the position against the coup. Since May 27th in Turkey, coups have been in different formats, in the form of a manuscript, in postmodern or other formats. Any intervention in politics in every extraordinary and non-democratic way, together, without discrimination, regardless of which power it is made and who it is done by, it is to oppose the coups that means. But there are still those who celebrate May 27th in Turkey who consider it a holiday. In Turkey, there are still those who do not see the 12th of March as a coup, even though three young men were hanged behind it. There are people who don't see February 28th like this. So let's say that politics has yet to prove its maturity. In particular, I would like to remind you that Necip Fazil has used the expression "Dagger" from Yogurt to government. So the fact that politicians are more interested in inviting soldiers than the fact that the soldiers are interested in getting into politics, I think it's very decisive. In the coming days, maybe we'll argue more, but in Turkey, there's a sign hanging in various cities. There's been a closing order on one of these, but now the signs are changing and similar organizations continue.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0088par0168	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0087par0169	It is a sign called "Personal Operations." We understand the private movement of the state's military, the police's police, but the fact that the signs that have been hung on almost all cities as a special action, what they serve, what chaos they can cause, what they're set up for, I think it's important that this Assembly know what they're set up for, and it also makes sense to fight the coups from the right place. Warning about impacts is one thing, calling is another. We care about the warning, the deforestation, and the call for democracy, but whether it's in the way of the coup call, whether it's in the form of creating the environment, creating the conditions, building an authoritarian regime, we're against it. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0088par0171	Mr. Autonomous has a very short request for words. Here you go, Mr. Özer.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0089par0174	Thank you, Mr. President. In our province of Antalya, there is a hospital with third-digit infrastructure and standards within the closest distance of our region, including Kumluca, Finike, Demre, Kash, Elmalı and Belt districts. As the Kumluca Chamber of Commerce has justly requested, the Special Medikum Hospital is located within a region of 400,000 people and is within 100km of its nearest health centre. However, despite its technical infrastructure and capacity, the hospital is unable to provide adequate service for our construction of the region. The Health Department doesn't approve of the third digit registration here. We'd like to know why cardiac vascular surgery and cardiology staff are not available. Also, why is it not allowed to use existing beds in the intensive care unit, which is currently on the sidelines of the emergency need? No institution or organization has the right to victimize our citizens living in the region. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0090par0177	Yes, my dear friends, now the good PARTI Group has a proposal given according to Article 19 of the Civil Code. I'll read it and process it, and I'll put it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 25/12/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. Deputy Director of the Good Party It has been suggested by Balıkesir MP İsmail Ok and his friends that the meeting of the Council of Parliament, number 10/416, which was given to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 7/11/2018 to determine the measures needed by investigating the socioeconomic problems of our minimum-paid citizens, should be held in front of other proposals on Tuesday (25/12/2018). Mr. Zekalalioglu will now speak on behalf of the well-proposed PARTI Group to explain the reason for the proposal. Here you go. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0091par0192	Mr. President, we've put together a group proposal to draw some more attention to this issue before the minimum wage price is announced today. The minimum wage has been announced, we like the price, we like it anyway. The economy was under a serious burden, and we liked the price, so it was expected to be $1,800, $2,020. We've come up with a number that matches the numbers that we've explained before, so we've pronounced the number of $2.020. So, we submitted the motion, and the motion was in vain with the number explained. I took the stand so I wouldn't have to thank you, thank you, that's good. We're just showing sensitivity about this, about our subcontractors, and I'll give you that. The inflation rate cannot be reflected, so they are forced from 4+4. In the considerable numbers, your brothers and sisters who are subcontractors have serious victims of inflation awareness. Well, there's about a million people in that sentence. There has been a significant 4+4 per cent victimization of these people -- if you calculate the loss of dollars. They've given us the opportunity to repair a significant sacrifice in that sense. I was going to tell you about the minimum wage, it's come to a reasonable level. Let's just say that. Hopefully, you'll have a fix on that, and I'll thank you for that. Thank you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0092par0196	Thank you. On behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group on the proposal now is Sepil Kemalbay Pek Göpegü, İzmir MP. Here you are, Mr. Kamalbay. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0093par0201	Thank you. On the 48th day of the eternal hunger strike, I salute Leyla Güven. Again, the anniversary of the Roboski massacre. I want to honor those who have lost their lives here. Dear friends, the speaker just said he liked the minimum wage and said thank you, but I made a promise to say the opposite. This minimum wage is an unacceptable minimum wage. We all know what conditions the working class, workers, lives in Turkey. We also know the conditions for the minimum wage. The minimum wage is determined by a government, the employer's representatives, and the union, which represents workers' representatives. He's got a threesome. In this article, when we look at it, if we view the two sides as the employer's side, as the capital side, and the other side as the relatively working side, the minimum wage is already fairly unfair. Turkey has a major economic crisis, and war policies continue at full speed again. We've just been briefed here. What does that mean? This means that the worker is actually shrinking bread at the laborer's table. With inflation increasing in the coming days, poverty in this minimum wage will increase, as the exchange rates play out. Look, today's minimum wage of $2.020 is not really an increase, it's a decline. Earlier, $425 was available at the minimum salary of 2018, and now $379 is available at a minimum wage set in 2019. As it turns out, there's been a fall, so how good is that, and how are we supposed to applaud? It's always said that there's a growth in AKP rows, that Turkey has grown up, but in fact, it's always shrinking from this growth to the workers, just like in my example here. The minimum wage, for once, must be exempted from taxes, and a human minimum wage must be determined. The minimum wage is even lower than the TİK numbers. The minimum income figures, according to the TİKİK, are worth more than 2.020. Again, assuming that the figure specified by TİSK is close to 2,000, we can say that what capital wants is actually happening here. This is a minimum wage, as in the budget, without conscience or justice, and represents a great poverty.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0094par0209	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0093par0210	The bill of the crisis appears to be billed for minimum wage in the war. What can we do here? What we need to do is, in fact, we can and can study some solution proposals to improve the lives of workers, the quality of life, the quality of their lives. First of all, we need to change this trifecta, and we need to develop a fair decision-making process here. For him, it is necessary to change the position under the name of the Asgarial Price Tespit Commission to determine a system where unions, confederations are strongly involved and if necessary, the right to strike, the right to a collective contract, and here, at minimum wage, workers, workers, workers need to increase their ability to negotiate. It is not the minimum wage of a single worker; in fact, it is necessary to determine income according to his family. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] From this point of view, we see that the share of the minimum wage is reduced to hunger and poverty again. We need to change this situation, and for that, we invite this Parliament to serve. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0095par0216	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, İzmir MP Kani Beko. Here you go, Mr. Beko. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0096par0221	Mr. President, the current minimum wage, which will be valid from January 1, 2019, is set at $2.020, including a minimum income reduction (AGI). First, the minimum wage -- except for the AGI -- is 1,829 TL. It is absolutely impossible to accept the explained 2.020 lira. That's a very low number for us. It is stated that the minimum wage is not a living fee, but is far from the standard and practice of the world's minimum wage, one of the basic universally accepted social rights. Turkey's Statistical Agency calculates the minimum amount of food and non-food expenditures required for a worker's livelihood per year to the minimum Price Appropriation Commission, and this year, unfortunately, it is far behind that figure. This year, TÜİK gave $2,213, while the minimum wage registration commission set a number below that. A fee below the TİK number does not fit the definition of minimum wage. It has been determined by the TİK that the employee described in the relevant law is not paid to meet the mandatory needs of food, housing, clothing, health care, transport and culture at a minimum price of the day. Workers expect a salary that can satisfy their basic human needs. In a country where the hunger limit is 1,900 lira, the poverty limit is over 6,000 liras, $2.020 is definitely not enough. The minimum wage in Turkey is calculated for a single worker, which is contrary to international standards. While the minimum wage is set, the worker's family must be considered, at least for four people. The minimum wage for employees and civil servants must be determined. The minimum wage must be determined by living conditions and increase in national income. You get 30 billion dollars in taxes from minimum wage, you give the employer 176 billion dollars in tax exemption. The minimum wage must be calculated yearly, completely excluded from the OPA and tax. The minimum wage must be $2,200 net. As Republican People's Party, we will pay a net $2,200 salary in all our municipalities. We'll give them a three-month difference in the new municipalities we're going to win. In addition, he will only work for income tax in two months of minimum wage year. If the income tax slices are not determined by minimum wage this year, the minimum wage will enter the 20 per cent tax zone starting next July, and inflation will increase by the time it reaches that month, while the minimum-payer's salary of $2,020 will drop by July.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0097par0227	Let's finish, please, Mr. Beko.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0096par0228	In addition, this year the difference between the net and the brunt of the minimum wage increased from 426 TL to 538 TL. That's the most important cost of minimum wage. I think we need to find a solution to this immediately. However, compared with minimum wage levels in 2017 and US dollars, Turkey is among countries such as Mexico, Hungary, Slovakia, Lithuania, Latvia, where minimum wage is lowest in OECD countries. And unfortunately, the share of the national income workers is not enough. Paid employees and employees of their own account received 38 per cent of the national income in 2002 and were reduced to 36 per cent in 2017. According to OECD data, Turkey is the 18th in OECD countries in terms of the ability to buy minimum wage. On the dollar side, the minimum wage was $425 net last year, and this year it was $381 net. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] The common mobile system in some countries in Europe... my dear friends, due to the economic crisis, inflation and tax, the losses on the salaries must be prevented. So I believe that the secular mobile system, as in Europe, should be implemented in our country. I give you all my regards, my love. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0098par0234	Thank you. Now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Ankara MP Orhan Yegin... Here you go, Mr. Yegin. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0099par0239	Mr. President, I salute the esteemed MPs, our beloved nation, and our Veteran Assembly representing it. In the early 2000s, when our people had lost hope in economic, political, and future, the AK PARTI had become a hope, the hope of their nation and has maintained hope in the eyes of our nation for many years, with its speech, its actions, and its practices. AK PARTY is the name of a policy, a solidarity that has always turned its direction towards its nation and was raised by its people. The EC PARTY has implemented regulations which have increased from the prosperity and stability of which it has managed to achieve, without growing, short-income, pensioner, civil servant, to all lower-income income rankings. Precious MPs, minimum wage, employees, employers, and government are determined by a committee representing the state as a result of several days of talks, and today, as I stand by the Asgarial Price Tespit Commission -- the minimum salary of the employee and employer's side -- has been explained by Mr. Secretary as $2.020; well done. This number cannot be paid to the person working in this country for less than 2.020 TL. It means something. Is that enough or will that satisfy all your needs? Of course, we don't claim this; our people, our people, are worthy of greater beauty, we believe in it, and we strive to make it happen. Thank you for the statement which has given Mr. Zekalalioğlu the right. Dear lawmakers, we need to take a look at yesterday to understand what happened today. In the days when the EC PARTI came to power, we see the minimum wage, which was net 184 liras, rose to $2,020 today, up from that day to $11. In terms of exchanges for net minimum wage, the minimum wage, at the end of 2002, was $1.65, $11.1.00, raised to $384 at an proportional rate, even from $5.30, which is now considered to be moussed by everyone. From inflation perspective, as of November, annual inflation was 21.62, and was expected to land even further in December, while the minimum wage increased by 26.05 per cent from the previous year to this year. As we endeavored to increase wages, we also tried to remove some of the costs of this section and improve the quality of its services, trying to make it feel more comfortable than before.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0100par0247	Mr. Yegin, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0099par0248	When he couldn't find the medicine he was looking for, even if he owed money, he couldn't find the cure, today we provided free access to every drug. We used to have those books on the table for free today while the neighbor used to travel to the stationery and borrow money for his kids' books. In the past, we came to a state approach where we couldn't pay for his medical report card, his photocopy, his surgery, his birth, his knife, everything, and they were held hostage in hospitals, and today, even in private hospitals, we've come to a government approach that offers a lot of services without a report card or photocopies, no bonds, no checks, no hostages. We've done it all with the love of the nation, the love of service. Is that enough? It's still not enough. This nation, our people, is a nation worthy of the best of all things, of all beauty, of all things. With the support of our nation, I salute the General Assembly, we will distribute all the bad accounts, destroy all the traps, overcome the obstacles, grow the country with more investment and production, and offer more services to our nation at higher standards.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0100par0251	Thank you. Now, I'd like to put to your votes the recommendation of the good party: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The People's Democratic Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 25/12/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal of our group to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. On 24 December 2018, Kars MP Group Deputy President Ayhan Bilgen proposed that Assembly Research Article 1185, given to the Grand National Assembly on the operation of Roboski, which killed 34 of our citizens, be held before other proposals on Tuesday (25/12/2018). Ağrı MP Abdullah Koç on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group to explain the motive for the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Coach. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0101par0267	Mr. President, before I begin speaking, I salute Leyla Güven, the will of the people of Haqkari, the will of millions, on the 48th day of his hunger strike against isolation in his prison. Dear friends, we don't accept and condemn the application of the Turkish Parliamentary Assembly's statement on the release of the word "murder" in order to bring this massacre to the parliamentary agenda as the Roboski massacre. Dear friends, 34 lives and 34 citizens were bombed by fighter planes in 2011. Seven years have passed since this massacre, but no steps have been taken to prosecute the perpetrators. Since the time of the massacre, 3 Chiefs of General Staff, 5 Minister of Defence, 7 Minister of Interior, 4 governments have changed; even the regime has changed in this country, but more justice promised to millions during each election has remained locked up in polls. The injustice has been inflicted on the consciences of the Roboski massacre, as has been done in any massacre. Once again, let us remind those who have forgotten that seven years have passed since the bombing of their families and 34 young people in the Uludere, by the warplanes of power. During that time, both our party and the demands of the people held hostage in prison today were the end of punishment, and the discovery of the perpetrators in this massacre. As this massacre was not brought to trial by military and political responsible, pressure and arrests against families who lost relatives in the massacre did not stop. Unlike the perpetrators of the massacre, Ferhat Encu is being held hostage in prison today while the perpetrators are being rewarded with punishment. For the truth of Ferhat Encu continued with courage to shout in the faces of those who protected the perpetrators. For seven years, the inhabitants of Roboski have faced attacks by military forces and Special Forces. The perpetrators of this massacre were taken into custody by soldiers, civilians, bureaucrats and the political will of the period. Although the chain of command of this massacre was known as a result of private war policy, none of the responsible have been taken into account. For this reason, the commission, which was established in parliament, mostly by AKP MPs, made an effort to cover up the massacre, and reports were written to cover up the massacre. By 2016, it was said by the media close to power that the people who committed the Roboski massacre were soldiers who carried out July 15th, and that the government was not responsible. In fact, I'd like to point out that then Minister of Energy Berat Albayrak made statements on a TV channel about the coup attempt on July 15th, and stated that the Roboski massacre case would be reviewed. So, what's happened since then? Aside from bringing the perpetrators of the Roboski massacre to the trial, Diyarbakır Chief Public Prosecutor's Office has issued a mistrial on the case and the case has been sent to the General Staff Prosecutor's Office. What did the D.A. do? The D.A.'s office has put the murder case on the shelf by order of non-obstruction. In other words, an administrative investigation has been conducted to clarify the massacre, a parliamentary investigation has been conducted, and a trial has been launched, but the perpetrators have always been protected. The Roboski Memorial, which was built in Diyarbakır for 34 people who were murdered in Roboski, was destroyed by the appointed trustee with ladle and business machines. The destruction of Roboski Memorial was also an expression of your approach to the Roboski massacre. Finally, I would like to point out that it is not possible to ignore, forget, or cover the crimes committed against humanity without the statute of limitations. No matter how long the Roboski massacre goes on, we will never back down from bringing the people responsible for this massacre to justice and making them punished, from our struggle for accountability, from expressing it. With all due respect.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0102par0276	Ankara MP Tekin Bingöl will speak on behalf of the Republican People's Party Group on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Bingöl. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0103par0280	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute you all. Seven years ago, there was a massacre in Roboski. In the beginning, it was interpreted differently when the sufferings of the living were so fresh, they were implied to be terrorists. But when it came out, it turned out they weren't terrorists, they were 38 Uludereli, Roboski citizens. What were these citizens doing? In the region, it has been discovered that not only in Uludere, Roboski, but in the border lengths, many towns and cities have been trafficked, trying to earn their bread at the expense of their lives. Smuggling is a product of desperation, poverty, unemployment, and greed, which is the shame of this country. My dear friends, knowing that no man would be torn apart in those minefields at the cost of his life, knowing that he would lose his limbs, he wouldn't do that smuggling. In Roboski, those 38 citizens were smuggling a few litres of diesel, a few litres of tea, to sustain their life, and no one questions it. But what happened? Then this file was brought to a point where the dead remained dead, just like the children in Suruç, like those who lost their lives in the mine, just as those who lost their lives in the Gar massacre. My dear friends, the burning odors of all of our human rights will always be heard under the roof of Parliament, if we don't find the perpetrators, if we don't find the real ones behind the scenes, if we're satisfied with the pawns alone. What needs to be done is that all these events must be investigated. Dear friends, I'm afraid the segregation has reached a point where everything in our country is being torn apart, even the pain is being torn apart. If there's a Flaming moment behind a pain, it never appears. If there is a Kurdish mother behind a catastrophe, a pain, her cry, her cry is never heard.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0104par0286	Mr. Bingöl, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0103par0287	The voice of a Turkish mother whose heart was burning as a result of a disaster by a poor Turkish brother. If we don't try to bring this all to light, I'm afraid that in the course of 90 years of republic history, the tears that have been shed behind all the past governments, the mothers' sufferings will continue with this understanding, and I'm afraid that the massacres, disasters, right-of-life violations will continue, and that will be a shame for all of us. For him, my dear friends, without distinction, there is one thing we must all do: we will overcome fear, we will boldly put our whole heart on the line, and we will vote positively for the investigation of these things so that they will never happen again. What happened after the Roboski massacre? The file's been put in such a state that there's nothing to be done in return for that file right now. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] But those four bombs cost the lives of 34 people, 19 of whom were children. Something else was done, dear friends, the file was destroyed, but the blood money was paid and those families were tried to be silenced. Those who looked for their bread in the minefields were so proud that they turned away their blood money, never stooped to it. Now, what I'm saying is that what needs to be done is to really take these research proposals seriously and defend these issues. I salute you all.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0105par0294	Now on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group, Istanbul MP Smurf Ünal. Here you go, Mr. Ünal. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0106par0298	Mr. President, I have made a commitment to the People's Democratic Party group proposal. I salute our Veteran Assembly and our beloved nation. Dear lawmakers have taken a close interest in the relatives of our citizens who lost their lives seven years ago, and have been very sensitive at the point where 34 of our citizens lost their lives as a result of air operations against the Iraqi border of Şırnak province of Uludere seven years ago. Dear lawmakers, the main reason for the Uludere incident is in fact the ongoing terrorist incidents in the region. In other words, Roboski was one of the first and largest of the plots by the terrorist organization to show Turkey as a country that has done civilian massacres, including the government and the government and the government and some of the government officials connected to the government and military officials who wanted to put the state in a difficult position after a treacherous coup attempt on July 15th, and the people involved in the coup were given the most severe punishments by the independent and impartial Turkish judiciary, so in other words, Roboski was one of the first and largest of its plots by the PKK. Dear lawmakers, our security forces are now in the region to fight terrorism. Without terrorist activities in the borders of our country, especially in the Southeast District, using the cross-border of the separatist terrorist organization, such action would not be necessary. Therefore, the PKK is responsible for this incident.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0107par0302	Isn't it the killer's fault?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0106par0303	It also judges the final decision of those who are responsible for the taking of this incident and the raising of a chaos in our country, and those who are responsible for the building of stones on the road to the July 15th traitorous coup attempt.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0108par0304	Who made the decision? Did he give it to you?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0106par0305	Those who adopt and discuss the terrorist organization's separatist goals should know that Turkey's indivisible integrity, despite the separatist terrorist organization, all traitors and those who use them, will be protected, protected.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0108par0306	Are you taking the massacre?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0106par0307	As I put an end to my words, this hand would like to express once again that it is only the duty of the judiciary to find and punish those responsible for the incident, that we are against the group's proposal, and I give my regards to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0109par0309	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0110par0310	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0109par0313	Mr. President, in fact, when we listen to the speaker's speech, there's a lot of emphasis on our motion, as if it would be supported. If they really think that he played a role in this act to damage Turkey's image, as he claims in his speech, I think it's also important for the enlightenment of July 15th. Air operations -- it's in the ME commission report -- do not operate without confirmation from land. We have confirmation from the ground that they are civilians. This is already in the House Commission report. If we don't want these kinds of issues to be abused, there are real perpetrators, they're punished, and no one takes advantage of them. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0110par0315	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0111par0317	Mr. President, very valuable MPs, when we look back at the birthdays and age of the young people who have lost their lives, I mean, it's hard not to be sad, you're really upset. But it's one thing to be here knowingly saying it's done. Now it's important to use the phrases. When we look at the legal process related to illumination -- Mr. Ayhan Bilgen, deputy president of the group, will know very well -- you're looking at the process of applying to the Constitutional Court, which is interestingly untraceable, so the court has given a 15-day deadline, but within that time the necessary documents have not been completed, and there is one lawyer -- not one lawyer, not two -- who is now your MP, and yet the process has been rejected by the Constitutional Court for lack of documents. Now, once again, it's about law, judicial mechanisms. In this mechanism, I think it's very important to follow the process correctly. What the government's doing isn't blood money, so there's a victim. To families...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0110par0319	Let's finish it, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0111par0320	Before, I don't want to say similar events, but there are points of interest, of course, which are different, in this sense what happens to families is a support, a help. It's very different that he is a very hands-on case, but the picture that occurred when the incident took place is that the PKK directs the people there, of course, that some of the issues in the case remain a question mark, and when we look at all of them, I want to stress that the solution is in favor of the law in any case. If the intention really is to follow the process, you have to follow the judicial processes seriously. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0112par0322	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0113par0323	Mr. Bilgen, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0112par0325	Mr. President, I don't want to extend it, but it's very short, just to say that we have established a commission within the party due to negligence in the process of the trial, and no matter who's responsible, our deputy, our manager, or the bar manager, we consider it at least a conscientious responsibility to share it with the public, and let me make it very clear. But there's no ongoing trial process. The Constitutional Court and the ECHR process, you know, is a process that operates on individual application rights. But right now, there's no trial process. As a result, the civil court has referred the matter to the military court, and the military court is currently not conducting any judicial proceedings, any investigation process. So, we think that the Constitutional Court, not just the ECHR, but the original effective first court process, should be run. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0113par0330	Dear friends, I submit the proposal to your votes that those who accept... those who refuse... the motion is not accepted. The Republican People's Party Group has a proposal in accordance with the 19th Amendment, which I shall read and process and submit to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory council cannot meet on Tuesday 25/12/2018 (today), I respectfully submit the following proposal to the approval of the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. A parliamentary research proposal issued by İzmir MP Atila Sertel and his friends to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey on 20/12/2018 to investigate the unsolved murders is 629 rows (629 rows). lu) has been proposed to meet on Tuesday (25/12/2018) in front of other proposals. To explain the motive of the proposal, the proposed Republican People's Party Group has been named İzmir MP Atila Sertel. Here you go, Mr. Sertel. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0114par0344	Thank you, Mr. President. Precious lawmakers, we lost Ismet Inönou (Ismet) today forty-five years ago. There is no salvation in the land if the righteous in a land are not as bold as the wicked. I remember Ismet Innu, the hero of our War of Salvation, with respect and mercy and gratitude. Dear friends, Turkey is a country where unsolved murders are very common and the perpetrators cannot be found. Uğur Mumcu, Abdi İpekçi, Cetin Emeç, Ahmet Taner Barracks, Marine Threeok, Adnan Coffeeci, Eşref Bitlis, Kazım Çillioğlu, Gaffar Okkan, journalist Hrant Dink; we count all of this among the unsolved murders. Speaking at the OCE Commission last day, the name of the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu came up. Our beloved Zonguldak MP Deniz Yavuzyılmalmaz, if there were radar in Maraş, the chairman of the Great Union Party of Sivas MP, the late Muşin Yazıoğlu, told him that if he was injured, he could be reached and held alive quickly. A member of the EC PARTİ MP accused the Republican People's Party of politics through Muhsin Yazıoğlu. Whereas our friend and I, as a political tradition, as people from the left, as people from within the revolutionary struggle, as people who approach people humanly, as people from us, as we do politics, as people from you, and as advocates for the right to life of all people, I came to this stage to prove that the cause of death was not fully investigated. My dear friends, in the 23rd term, in February 2011, a commission was established in this Parliament. The motion has been made to establish a research commission that killed Muhsin Yazıoğlu and five others. On behalf of the CHP Group, Hakkı Suha Okayi issued this motion; on behalf of Justice and Development Party Group Deputy Nihat Ergün, Mustafa Elitaş, Nurettin Canikli, Sadullah Ergin, Bekir Bozdağ and Milliyetian Movement Party, Mehmet Shandir and Oktay Vural supported this motion. At that time, this Parliament issued a broad report of the research commission, which you can now find in the transcripts. When the report of that research commission was published, of course, there were questions asked to the family of Muhsin Yazıoğlu, the chairman of the Great Unity Party for him. Your family had demands: providing adequate examination of the wreckage of helicopters, explaining the lack of helicopter radar logs, providing full audio coverage of helicopter crash and search and rescue activities. You will remember Ismail Sun, who was a reporter for the Islamic News Agency, and after he survived the accident, he spoke to 112. He spoke to other people over and over and over again, and when he was asked where he was, he couldn't be determined. Forty-eight hours later, the villagers arrived at the wreckage of the helicopter, 48 hours later. Speaking on behalf of the EC PARTY, our friend made a claim on behalf of the commission that Ramazan Akyrek was in the intelligence service at the time and that they were the reason why the helicopter accident was unreachable. Of course, in 2011 or 2013, Ramazan Akyerek was accused of the murder of Hrant Dink, while he was then police chief of Tripoli, because there was no problem between the AKP and the AKP. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] I'm ending it, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0115par0352	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0114par0353	The same person was accused by this friend of the late arrival of the helicopter crash of the late Muhsin Yazıoğlu. From here, I address all party groups from the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. Is it true or true what the AK PARTY MP said? I address the person who claims that the terrorist organization is behind these murders and the friends at his party and other party groups. Come, let's accept this murder once again with the Council's unanimous approval of the investigation commission. Let's find out what the criminal organization is like Hrant Dink, Muhsin Yazıoğlu and other unsubs. On behalf of the Republican People's Party, I propose this. I salute the House. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0116par0358	İstanbul MP Yavuz Aşelioğlu will speak on behalf of the PARTI Group on the proposal. Here you are, Mr. Sekalalioglu. Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0117par0361	Mr. President, on behalf of my group, I am the one who is considered worthy to be kind and to speak on this matter. Many years with the late President, since his youth, he's been blessed. I don't know how many words can be said in a three-minute conversation behind the President's back. In three minutes, I'm embarrassed to be able to make a statement to your rights, to your law, to present a few things. A hero who dedicated his life to his country, his people, his religion, his state. The president of the Ülkü January is a country, son of the nation, in an effort to meet a will that is lawful for his country, for his nation, for his nation, for his state, at every stage of a life that has been desired by the nation. Every time you want the government, every time you think your government needs it, your blood, your soul, your future and your opinion, your dedication is a hero. And a believer in what he thinks his people need - that he will be there in every [single] atom's weight, and he will have [the provision of] Paradise for himself. What would you like to be? If I were a snowflake, I'd want to fall into Mecca. A man of faith who says, A dedicated human from the Adriatic to the Great Wall of China who weaves the dream of a Turkish world into every stage of his life. It's the story of a man who loved his government's service every time he needed it, a man who never found his state in his life, when he needed it. The late Necip Fazil invited an entire youth in his address to youth to place a case stone the size of the Anatolian continent at its doorstep. A case the size of the continent of Anatolia is a diseased Muhsin Yazıoğlu, but God has made his efforts so glorious that he has placed it on a stone the size of the continent of Asia Minor. When he needed her in a troubled stone, he watched over the people who had always served him. But he couldn't find his state in the mountains where he was left unclaimed in a glorious farewell that would be the subject of my many reproaches and pleasantries. Once he needed his government, he couldn't find his government there. It's still the House's responsibility that you haven't found your government there. So let me just remind you that in these three minutes only such a responsibility should be carried by this House. Enver Pasha went to his stone with a plague the size of an Anatolian continent.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0116par0364	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0117par0365	When I used to make a statement through the late Muhsin President Erdoğan, I used to say that Mr. Tayyyıp Mustafa Kemal is a fortunate man and Mustafa Kemal is a very political man. You, Enver Pasha, are a fortunate man. In every narrow passage of politics, I'd always say that your share would fall through a Bardiz pass. Her farewell and her glorious farewell were in a snowy mountain with sadness. On that snowy mountain, perhaps he needed to see the state he had served for a lifetime, where there was no state, where the government fell under that snow that day. Not only for the Muhsin President -- I am grateful to our friends at the CHP -- the state must be governed by the responsibility of revealing everything, rather than being crushed by political, social complications by the unknown. It's better than the complications of anything that's out in the open, discussed, known, that makes us pay for anything that's hidden. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Let me finish, Mr. President.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0116par0368	Complete, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0117par0369	To pay the price, to account for the wrongs -- including the nation -- to face them, to account, to create a mercy basin for our government, rather than to face complications that will arise from the secrecy of its intellectuals, its elites, its intellectuals, its politicians, its politicians. So, including the Muhsin President, it's our duty as representatives of this nation to clarify all the work that's going to be a matter of hoarding, hidden, on the sidelines. To pay off this debt, we have to be sensitive about it so there's no exclusion, no polemic issues. I'm saying it's an honorary duty for this House to go through with the Covenant. Thank you, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0116par0372	Thank you. Now, on behalf of Peoples' Democratic Party Group, Antalya MP Kemal Bulbül... Here you go, Mr. Nightingale. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0118par0377	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, while it's very difficult to express such a delicate, heavy, clear, exhausting issue in three minutes, I would like to say that we most certainly support this motion from the Republican People's Party. Hilmi Dedebaba was also a victim of an unknown crime. Since Hilmi Dedebaba, we know that the Alilar have been reported in Turkey from right to left, from Kurdish to Turkish, from state official to the President, from police commissioner to another officer, almost every person has been killed in cold blood, and this concept has been said in order to cover up crimes, serial massacres, serial killing. Behold, Uður Mumcuna of the Adnan Coffeemakers, Turan Dursunlar of the Adgut Özals, Gaffar Okkans, Muhsin Printers of Muhtin Ali; and Turan Dursunlar of the Bahiye Trioks, Musa Antirs, Metin Gökpeler of the Adnan Coffees, Turgut Özals, Gaffar Okkans, and Muşsin Printers. And those who were slain during the travel actions... when they are now referred to as the Gezi (Travel) terrorist action, the people who were killed by a terror look on the Gezil (Travel) have not even been found, nor have their murderers, nor have they had Ali Ismail (Ishmael), nor have Berkin (Ismael), nor have Ahmet Atakan (Atakan), nor have they, nor have they, nor have they, nor have they, nor have they. In the 1990s, 17,000 unsolved journalists, politicians, writers, people, innocent, oppressed people, etcetera... If you'll excuse me, dear friends of mine: I was taken into custody from my home in 1998 when I was the head of the Ankara HadEP Province, and the car that was supposed to go to Ankara Security Directorate was heading towards Lake Chief. I said, "Where are we going?" I said, "To the Ankara Police Department." This is the direction of the Ankara Police. I said, "We're going to go for a little walk." They took me to a woody place near Lakehead and put me in the middle of a house -- I don't know if it's a house or a shack -- and they locked the door on me. After staying there for about an hour, they took me back in the car they took me to Ankara Security Directorate and to the Forensic Medical Examiner's Office in Ankara, a man who came across the street who was very well-dressed and beautiful, opened up to me, and said to me, "We saved his life." The one before me, too, was kidnapped from Faik Candan, and a week later, his body was found in an apartment shaft. [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] Mr. President, if I could have a moment...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0119par0384	Sure, go ahead.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0118par0385	Thank you. Now, in this context, see, I was only detained because of my speech at an event, and I was acquitted from that case by the DGM republic's attorney at the time, and I took it to the European Court of Human Rights after the legal process was over in Turkey, and I won the case. There was only one conversation I was about to make, and I was about to go to murder and murder in custody. Oh, I'm afraid we didn't find the legal compensation; I shared it with my lawyer, etcetera, and we didn't find it. Now, what we're dealing with here is how deep is this structure? He thinks he's deep, but this structure is shallow, this structure is a fool, this structure is a murderer, this structure is a killer. Let us expose these fools, murderers, murderers, Musa Anters, Uğur Mumculers, Muhsin Yazıoğlus, Turgut Özals, Adnan Coffeemakers -- from the right, from the left, from the Kurdish, from everywhere -- and let us perform our moral, conscientious, political duty to humanity. I pay my respects, thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0120par0390	Thank you. On the proposal, İstanbul MP Abdullah Güler on behalf of the Justice and Development Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Guler. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] Your time is three minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0121par0395	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of our AK PARTY group following the Republican People's Party's proposal to investigate unsolved murders. I hereby salute our great coven and our beloved nation. Also, today is December 25th, the 97th anniversary of the release of Gaziantep province from enemy occupation. We celebrate this blessed day for all of our Gaziantep citizens. Dear MPs, since the CHP is involved in the group proposal, I would like to inform the General Assembly on a few particular issues. In one winter of 1993, the late journalist Uğur Mumcu was killed in front of his house in January, and a parliamentary research commission was established in our Veteran Parliament in the 20th Year of the Second Legislature in order to clarify the murder. (10/86) The main Parliamentary Research Commission report has been submitted to the Supreme Assembly and has been evaluated. When we review this commission report, we see that the Commission has made very special assessments in 16 main topics, specifically for these unsolved murders. In 1993 -- the year of perhaps the darkest and most different political killings in Turkey's political history -- began with Uður Mumcu, Adnan Coffeeci, Eşref Bitlis, our 8th President Turgut Özal, and later, we see many different political murders, including the martyring of 33 of our soldiers on the road to Elazıg-Bingöl, the killing of Major Cem Erfik If we bring to the attention of such assessments reflected in the report, there have been reports that there is not enough co-ordination among the intelligence units, that there is not enough protection for the deceased Uður Mumcu, that the investigation is violated, that the chief prosecutors and prosecutors in charge have committed acts and acts that undermine confidence, that there are weaknesses in the forensics institution, that the security forces who conduct the investigation cannot use the technology necessary for the age of the age, that there is not enough use of the technology for the operation, that there is not enough surveillance, that the evidence has not been done, and that there is not enough attention to the collection of evidence, and that there is no need to take testimony. Dear MPs, considering the third joke of our Constitution's Article 138, there are many things that have been brought to justice within the framework of the Constitution that have been asked about the use of judicial authority in the Legislative Assembly. As our AK PARTY... Up to now, more than 10 dignitaries have been offered group proposals to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey by different political parties. Present, we now know that the Commission for Human Rights Review of these issues within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is equipped with special powers in this sense, to investigate, to investigate, to do necessary research. This Commission is prepared to submit a report on any allegations that human rights has been violated... [[Microphone turned off by automatic device]] ...it is the duty of Turkey to enlighten the Grand National Assembly. I salute the General Assembly by expressing these issues. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0122par0406	Thank you. I now submit the Republican People's Party group proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... The proposal was not accepted. The Justice and Development Party Group has a proposal in accordance with Article 19 of the Civil Code, which I shall have read and process and submit to your votes. Here you go. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly Since the advisory board cannot meet on Tuesday 25/12/2018 (today), I would like to submit the following proposal to the General Assembly under Article 19 of the Civil Code. AK PARTY Group Vice President 25, 26 and 27 December 2018 Tuesdays, Wednesday and Thursdays, where the audit issues are not discussed, the agenda is "Controversy of law proposals and other jobs from the Commission, This section of the agenda's 27, 37, 28, 33 and 29 legal proposals in "Objects of Law and Other Affairs From Commissions" shall be placed in the rankings 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively, and the order of other tasks shall be considered according to this. On Tuesday, December 25, 2018 (today) until the meeting of the 27th Law Proposal was completed; On Wednesday (December 26, 2018) until the completion of the first chapter talks of the 37 Numbered Law Proposal on Wednesday; On Thursday (December 27, 2018) until the meeting of the 37-order Law Proposal on Thursday (December 27, 2018) was completed; On Friday, December 28, 2018, Friday (December 27, 2018) on Friday (December 27, 2018) outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days, in case the talks were not completed during Thursday's merger. Until the meeting at 00 and the meeting of the audit issues, which were not discussed in this merger, until the meeting of other jobs from the Commissions and the meeting of the 37 Numbered Law Proposal, and the completion of talks from the Commissions; On Saturday, December 29, 2018, Saturday (December 28, 2018) on Saturday (December 27, 2018) outside of the General Assembly's weekly working days, in case the talks were not completed during Friday's unification of December 28, 2018. Until the meeting at 00 and the meeting of the audit issues, which were not discussed in this merger, until the meeting of other jobs from the Commissions and the meeting of the 37 Numbered Law Proposal, and the completion of talks from the Commissions; The Law Proposal No. 37 is to be considered under Article 91 of the Civil Code and to be the basis of the chapters in the accompanying form; It's recommended. Proposal request? No. I submit the proposal to your votes: Those who don't agree... Motion accepted. Now, according to Article 37 of the Civil Code, there is a direct motion to be taken into consideration, and I will have it read and processed, and I will submit it to your votes. Turkey to the chairman of the Grand National Assembly With respect to the agenda of the General Assembly in accordance with Article 37 of my main Law Proposal (2/852). A motion to make a statement on the motion? No. I submit the motion to your votes: Those who don't agree... The motion is not accepted. In accordance with the decision taken, we do not discuss the issues of control, and we move to the part of the agenda of the law proposals and other tasks from the Commissions. We will begin negotiations with Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Sentop's Government of the Republic of Turkey and with the Foreign Commission Report (the Foreign Affairs Report (2/1409) in accordance with the Agreement on Avoiding Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking and Approvement of Letters. Commission? He's in position. The Commission's report has been suppressed and distributed by 27 rows. Proposal on the whole thing? No. The negotiations on the entire proposal are complete. I submit to your votes that all those in favor... Those who don't agree... The terms of the proposal have been passed. THE CONTROL REPUBLICATION OF THE REPUBLICITY OF TOURITY IS CONTINUED TO CONTINUE TO CONTINUE THE CONTROCTION OF PROTECTIONS OF PROTOCOL AND MECCIDENTS TO PROTECTIONS TO PROTROCOPES AND PROTECTIONS MADDE 1- (1) was approved on December 18, 2016 in Tripoli, with the approval of the government of the Republic of Turkey and the Agreement on Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking. On behalf of the 1st article, Bursa MP Ahmet Kamil Erozan. Here you go, Mr. Erozan. Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0123par0457	Mr. President, Mr. Commissioner, with your permission, I will define both the agreement and relations between Turkey and Qatar by the word "strange." When I thought about which of these two odd things to start with, I thought I'd start with relations between Turkey and Qatar. There's a particular reason why I mention this because the relationship between Turkey and Qatar is a kind of relationship that develops in the shadow of private relations between Mr. President and Qatar Emiri. We're talking about a relationship where mutual generosity comes up and we can't explain it very easily. The most recent point of this is, you know, a Boeing 747 plane. I call it an airplane, but it should be described as an airplane tanker, because if you pull it into an airport and fill it up, the amount of gas this plane buys is 225,486 litres, or 225 tons of gas. If you were to fill this 225 tons of gasoline in the U.S., the price would be $280,000. If you convert today's wolf into Turkish lira, the tank of this plane will be up to 1.5 million Turkish liras. Whose money is this filling up with? With taxes from us and the citizens. Why do you think he was so generous, Qatar Emiri? Where did he need to turn to such a gift? We actually wondered, and at the time, we asked Mr. Vice President: Is there a current list of gifts and grants that Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, president of the President and/or Justice and Development Party, lists the gifts and grants he received during his term of office, shows by whom they were given and whose values they were given, and can be shared with the public? Did the gift and grants received by President Erdogan become his own property, or was the presidency registered to the blacksmith? Three: Are personal gifts and grants reflected in the statement of property? Is it possible to provide an example of any gift and the records of a grant that wasn't registered to a property statement because they weren't personal? While the Vice President was sitting here during the budget talks, I was prepared to answer any question. He said, "I am prepared to answer any question." In fact, this was directed at him from the heart of the question that needed to be answered. These questions were raised on October 9th. Fifteen days later, October 24th, two months later, still no answers. So I am hereby calling on Mr. Vice President. Another matter, Mr. Fuat Paşa Yalı. Have you ever heard of Mushir Fuat Paşa Yalı? Mushir Fuat Paşa Yalı is today the last of the state of the Republic of Turkey in the Bosphorus. One day, two people from national real estate will come to this compound, and what about Hayrola? The property is yours, why are you here? This building will be sold. We've come to value it, says Milli Real Estate. No, it's yours. We can't tell who it's going to be sold to. They left -- we don't know what it's worth -- two days passed, this time two people from Qatar's consulate came in, and fortunately after they visited the building, they said, "This is a very small building for us." I'm moving on to something else. You know, the Turkish Armed Forces have a base in Qatar. This base started with 300 people, and by the end of this year, it's going to be a brigade level. Who does this brigade serve? I'll tell you. Some time ago, there was a coup attempt last year on 5 June 2017 in Qatar. This coup attempt was blocked by the Turkish Armed Forces. So the Turkish Armed Forces are in Qatar, a guard regiment of a Qatar Emiri, and this is done with our money. Adeta Turkish Armed Forces personnel are protecting Qatar Emiri, a mercenary there, and that's what we call Middle Easternization. Because even if you go to Saudi Arabia, the King of Saudi Arabia cannot entrust himself to his own citizen, his guard regiment is also Pakistanis. It's a weird relationship like this. Let me get to Syria. As you also know about Syria, it has come to this day with another project that envisions the transfer of Qatar's gas to the Mediterranean through Turkey. Today, today, another address is on the agenda. One of them is one of the key stones of our defence industry in Sakarya, the 1st main care centre in the Ministry of National Defence. There are also those who have announced to us that this industry site is also on the agenda for the removal of its contract to an address and transferring it to a private company, and interestingly enough, its shareholder is Qatar again. Now that you mention it, I'd like to talk to Qatar, a little bit about Syria in connection with this gas pipeline. Although Trump has made a decision to withdraw US troops in Syria, we must also view this decision as a challenge, even though those who welcome a positive military action towards the east of Fırat. In other words, the United States wanted to announce to the world that the PYD/YPG, which it grew and raised and described as an ally to its future policies in the region, could now stand on its own two feet, and that it could perform the work expected of these forces in the absence of US soldiers. It is another fact that even if the U.S. troops withdraw, the subcontractors will remain in the area, and all US troops who will withdraw from Syria will not return to the United States and be moved north to Iraq. It should be remembered that the supporters of the PYD and the YPG are not just U.S.A. Other countries with military power in the region are likely to find a way to compensate for the forces that the United States will reduce. It is also interesting that Mr. Erdogan, who threatened friendly fire while US soldiers were in the area, called for military action, postponed the operation after Trump had decided. Apparently, Mr. Erdogan considers an operation to the east of Fırat as an element of the local election campaign, and I regret to inform you that he is willing to face a conflict for the sake of the success of these elections. It is understood that the date of the operation will also be determined according to the requirements of the campaign. Now, I'd like to move on to what I call this strange agreement. If you ask me, this agreement is unconstitutional. Why is it against the Constitution? This agreement consists of a deal, a protocol, and a letter supply. In fact, this should have been two letter reviews. Why? There's someone in this, the authority, who's in charge, I guess, who's in charge? Minister of Finance. Is there a minister of finance in Turkey today? There is no Minister of Finance, there is no Minister of Finance and Finance. Is there a government in Turkey today? There is no government in Turkey today, there is a government here. Therefore, another letter supply would have to be added to the crop, and in the framework of the recent constitutional amendments to that letter supply, the authority here should have been written not as Minister of Finance, but as Minister of Finance and Finance, or as Minister of Finance and Finance. It should also be noted that the word "government" is no longer the government of the Republic of Turkey, but the government of the President of the Republic of Turkey. So even though the President sent it here, the presidents are mortals, human beings, and they can make mistakes, but our friends at the time, all of them, because they came from the President, they stopped trying to make that mistake. So I salute you all with this on the record. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0124par0473	On behalf of the National Movement Party Group, Erzurum MP Kamil Aydın. Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0125par0476	Mr. President, I have made a pledge on behalf of the National Movement Party Group to discuss the relevant bilateral agreement. I salute your high council. Respected lawmakers, it is impossible to talk about independent formations and structures that are irrelevant, isolated from the world, while distances have become a global village as a result of increasing transportation and communication in the 21st century. So an economic, commercial, social activation, or terrorist activity on the other side of the world is also very clear on the other side of the world because of the domino effect. Thus, in order to avoid the problems and hardships created by such an individual interaction, the international institution, institution and structures, which are based on multilateral, regional or at least bilateral agreements, must be worked in harmony with them. Here we are discussing the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey and the Law Proposal for the Right to Agreement Against Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking between the Law and the Law Government of Qatar, which we are meeting today. Honourable lawmakers are wise to take a short look at the common world conjunctivation and the state of Turkey in particular in the international relations that we are trying to briefly express in terms of understanding the meaning and importance of close communication and co-operation. As it is known, in the 90s, the two polar world order, which felt its presence in every context with its distinct lines after the cold war, became monopolitic by the collapse of the East Bloc or the Iron Curtain. As of today's point, it is now the focus of a new, multipolar, power-centered structure that has failed the world's balances of power and political predictions in this sense. To read this orientation closely, we see very clearly that the struggle for powers has been constantly and rapidly transformed into instruments, tools, and vehicles that are used. We know that during the cold war, conventional weapons that we witnessed became biological, chemical, cyber, or all of them mixed into hybrid structures, with new dimensions such as trade, economy, communication, technology, perception, manipulation, and disinformation. So, in today's world, where multi-centered competition prevails, we witness the emergence of different troubled areas and different quests for solutions, trends. In this context, a global migration caused by social, economic, commercial, and human tribulations throughout the world, and terrorism is at the head of these new, troubled areas. Today we bear witness that over 50 years of international structures, such as the European Union, the United Nations and NATO, are being shaken and questioned because of the differences caused by these problems. In a few concrete instances, it has recently been decided that the growing area under the NATO umbrella has been divided into security expenditures of 2 per cent of NATO's budgets from all member states, especially at the point of increasing spending due to increased number of countries. Unfortunately, although this decision has been made, we have witnessed NATO's failure to provide solutions to a number of expected problems, primarily because the countries of the European Union are acting on the idea that their own defences will take it to an army. On the one hand, China and Korea have increased nuclear trials along with Iran, and again, the unilateral destruction of Iran's nuclear agreement with Western countries in 2015, has caused other European countries to double down in this context, and they have exhibited a side in the continuation. On the other hand, the U.S. government's unilateral embargo to Iran and its desire to do so in the same way from other Western countries has also sparked a number of contradictions, a number of controversy within a structure, although it exempts eight countries, including Turkey. On the other hand, the fact that China, of course, is, new, that the struggle that I've just expressed has been drawn into different areas, especially in economic competition, has been the name of a formation that has disturbed the other union. Members of parliament, in light of this international framework that we are simply trying to express, while the state of the Republic of Turkey is aware of its geopolitical conditions, trying to do its part by producing proposals for solutions to the global problems we are trying to count above, it is also trying to overcome the problems it faces in its region. To put it under a few headlines, I'm afraid the problem of migration, which is also a global feature, has become our top priority. Because Turkey has paid a very high price for immigration. Members of parliament, I would like to express to you a few concrete examples of our recent history, especially in terms of regeneration of migration, that, you know, in the 1980s, Turkey was suddenly in the midst of a huge wave of migration, with its political, social, cultural and economic burdens, because of the persecution of the Todor Jivkov people there. We witnessed a second wave of migration in the early 1990s. Again, we have not forgotten the problems of our country, which escaped the Saddam regime in Iraq and saw a port to escape its tyranny and to seek refuge in our country, with hundreds of thousands of people coming to our country and opening its arms and providing all kinds of aid and support. The third dimension of this wave, I'm afraid, has grown to a higher level in recent years. A new wave of migration, which has been expressed with depositor millions of cases in Syria, as well as the migration from the east through Afghanistan, is not a situation that can be overcome. Respected lawmakers, in addition to this migration, there's also a terror spiral that we've been exposed to for over 35 years, which we've had to fight. Sir, our country, which has been attacked by different terrorist structures, shows its every effort, effort, struggle, determination and determination. In fact, in this context, one of the reasons why international institutions have lost credibility is because they need to be helped with relevant materials, but we've witnessed that they're stuck with the problem of an allied country as their own, when it should be doing what it needs to do, in our recent history, and even beyond that, to help, aside from the fact that I want to cast a shadow, we've testified that they don't prevent us from providing ammunition and logistic support to the structures we're fighting for. Respected lawmakers, we also bear witness that Islam, especially after the 9/11 attack, was served with a very subtle arrangement, was made into an arctic structure with terrorism, making it an internationally-sized Islamophobia and a Turkophobia in private. This is another important area in our country, where we have to fight the nation. Why am I saying this?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0126par0490	Here you are, Mr. Aydın.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0125par0491	Thank you very much. In fact, we need to get down to its historical origins. So Islamic or Turkophobic behavior isn't something that's very recent, it's not something called September 11th or the 1978 Midnight Express that started with the Midnight Express, but it's a phenomenon that actually goes all the way back to the Crusades in the Middle Ages. Why? Because in the light of justice, tolerance and charity that was brought back to Jerusalem after the Islamic geography of Saladdin Ayyubi, which had even banned the smile of Jerusalem during the occupation of Jerusalem in those centuries, there was a long period of time when a French general, who was not affected by such behavior, visited Damascus at the beginning of the 20th century, was first visited by Salahaddin Eyubi. And today, unfortunately, we are witnessing that this happens in a more postmodern format, especially in Western Europe, where 17 million Muslims are present, and they can't even tolerate it. Well, those who know about the Solingen disaster know. While the memories of our living, burned relatives still remain fresh in our apocalypse, there is no day to add that a mosque is not to be torched, a Turkish workplace is to be bombed, a family is to be harassed, raped. In the last United States of America -- it was reflected in the media over YouTube -- we witnessed our son being subjected to a major attack, even in a jointly used sink -- without permission to use it.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0127par0495	Mr. Aydın...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0125par0496	Can I have another minute, please?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0127par0497	Sure.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0125par0498	Respected MPs, as the National Movement Party, we would like to express that in light of all of this, the state of Turkey, the last link of an ancient state tradition, must fight diplomatically in the spirit of national unity on international platforms on the one hand, and, on the other hand, maintain its strength and determination to continue its struggle within the border and beyond until the last terrorist is destroyed without anyone waiting for guidance. In this sense, we must not look at those who have made mistakes in the north of Iraq with their policies; rather, we must continue to fight in the proactive structure of Menbic, and in the east of Fırat. Those who have come from thousands of miles away to make artificial excuses for their existence there must know that Turkey will not tolerate any artificial construction in the name of its security and support. In this scope, I would like to say that we would support this bilateral agreement as the National Movement Party, and I would respectfully welcome the Grand Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0127par0500	Thank you. Now, on behalf of the People's Democratic Party Group, Adana MP Tulay Hatimlari Orç. [[Applause from HDP rows]] Here you are, Mr. Hathimsons, fasting.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0128par0504	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I'd like to start with the Cabaret of Clever Alasya and Metin Akpınar. They carried so many lines of irrational prohibitions that they were forbidden to eat, to drink, to sit, not to get up, not to get up. Last he says to the doctor: "Ya, everything is forbidden, what kind of doctor are you? I am not a doctor. I am a spokesman for the government," he says. Now, the mentality that called them to the courthouse halls yesterday, detained them, took their statements, caused them to face the same criticism that they had done to the climate of the 1980 coup, not the judges, but the judges who were acting as the government's spokesman, showed it once again. Dear friends, the Middle East is a boiling furnace with its most familiar definition, and it's really a ring of fire. Of course, in that ten-minute period, we won't be able to mention anything, but I'd like to continue with a few basic issues. Look, in this complicated situation, we need to take a special look at Yemen. You know, we are great governments and philanthropists, and in Yemen, people are starving and thirsty, and the operation of Saudi Arabia, which has been carried out against the Husi people, seems to be over, but it is not over, it does not seem to be over. But even though there was a very serious human drama going on there, although hunger and children's deaths were clearly seen, no one is reaching out for support, and behind that, Prince Salman of Saudi Arabia, the 2030 vision of Arabia, is set on complete blood and conflict. Trying to play for the leadership of the Gulf countries, Arabia continues its brutal massacres against the Husi. In our case, we will reduce the fire of the dollar in Turkey, which is not only the humpback of Arabia, but also by the idea that if Turkey does not have a serious reckoning about it, the Spooner's murder, which will always be his hump, as if nothing happened, as if it had never existed, as if it had never existed, by the Saudi Arabia, from the United Arab Emirates, from Qatar. In the idea, you do nothing and you watch. Look, today the Spooner's murder was committed on this land, and it has to be illuminated. Dear friends, yes, today we will talk about Qatar. There's been an offer of law, we'll discuss it. But I'd like to point out a few points about Qatar: Saudi Arabia, or rather, after Trump's campaign to Saudi Arabia, a line was drawn to Qatar, who drew close to Iran with economic concerns and other concerns. Arabia, having enjoyed the joy of Trump's visit, asked many Gulf countries to impose embargo on Qatar. In fact, in 48 hours, they asked diplomats to evacuate it, giving time for Qatar diplomats to withdraw from it in their own country. Finally, Qatar, yes, is drawn to Turkey with security concerns and economic concerns. But in return, what has Turkey done? He sent his own soldier there, and his predecessors referred to it. Why are you sending the Turkish soldier to Qatar? Why do you send the children of the poor people who serve in Turkey and the children of the poor families to Qatar? Is this the foreign policy that Turkey will run? On the other hand, in return, the land of the Black Sea is to be retreated to the Qatarian princes. In Tekirdağ, Marmaeregı, Çororı and Kapaklı districts, many treasures are wanted to be sold to princes, under orders. When Qatar Emiri Es-Sani arrived in Turkey, he and the President who attended the opening of Tripolispor's stadium decided that we could buy the Çaykur Rizespor Club there. The Black Sea, because it's beautiful, of course it can be liked; on one side is the green forestland, and on the other side is the Black Sea. But, dear friends, Turkey sees no harm in selling its own land and property to those orders because in return, a government that sees no harm in accepting flying palaces as a gift will see no harm in selling this country's land piece by piece. Dear friends, the matter of a very hot agenda and the eastern part of Firat. Yes, while Turkey was preparing for an operation, Trump surprisedly stated that US troops would withdraw from Syrian territory; in return, the operation was given a break. I would like to ask you clearly: Will Turkey not intend to change its strategy on this matter? How do you view the eastern part of Fırat as a red line, and how do you think to destroy the Kurdish people who live there, who have built the war in Syria, who have built their entire script on the destruction of ISIS, especially the coalition forces Russia and Iran, who have fought the most serious fight against ISIS, and we can't make any sense of that. You can still tell a people who live there, who don't come by parachute, who are native to birth, who are the ancient people of the country, that you're not going to destroy terrorists from here. There's nothing understandable about it, and there won't be. Look, Turkey has established a commission consisting of Russia, Iran and the United Nations as a garantator country in Geneva, on December 18th, this commission has begun its work and the Syrian Constitution will be rewritten. When this constitution is written, there is a demand that all the people who live there can maintain their own existence on the basis of the principle of equal citizenship, a constitutional guarantee for the peoples there. Unfortunately, the mission defined by this committee... I would like to share with you in particular: the work of the Constitutional Committee should be directed to a constructive engagement and compromise that aims to reach the general agreement of its members so that the Syrian people can provide the broadest possible support. But here, not amongst the peoples of engagement and reconciliation, but on that desk, on the land of Partial Syria, they are the countries that have the right to save themselves. One of them, unfortunately, is Turkey. So what we're saying from here is that nobody pulls the covers on themselves. The people who live there are left open, cold, dying, losing their lives, paying the highest price, because you're sitting behind a desk, drawing them to you. So we want to express that at this time when the 31 March elections are coming, even on the eve of each election, the power that exists now is fighting terrorism to cover its own weariness and weakness. Under the name "Presently or beyond the border, it explodes major events. We would like to say once again that this operation, which you plan to do to the east of Fırat, is the AKP's campaign to win elections. Look, you're going to the U.S.A. retreat. It's a swamp, what are you doing there? Why are you taking Turkey's soldiers there, we don't understand them. Today Trump will sit in the White House and enjoy watching Turkey go there while he sips his wine and the people of the same geography slaughter each other. You here, as brothers, have made fighting with each other a state strategy. Dear friends, the only solution in Syria is the broadest social understanding, the solution is to come to a conclusion with the common decision of the Kurds, the Arabs, the Armenians, the Suryans -- all peoples as a collective dynamic -- and to rewrite a new constitution based on peace, brotherhood.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0129par0515	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0128par0516	As I end my words, Ibn Haldun says geography is destiny. This fate doesn't always have to be a brother fight, blood, tears for the geography we live in. Look, the Sykes-Picot Agreement was drawn with a ruler of boundaries. Now we're waiting for the same Sykes-Picot. The River Firat is your red line, east and west. The Firat River has found life in Turkey, Syria and Iraq's harsh lands and has been torn to pieces. Let the peoples live in the same way as the river of Firat. Not Sykes-Picot, but peace and brotherhood shall feed this land, this geography. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0130par0519	Mr. President...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0131par0520	Mr. Rich, come in.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0130par0523	Thank you, Mr. President. Very valuable MPs, Mr. Oruç, we have a point to object to at the collage speech, but I absolutely need to say two of them. One of them said they are not judges. They are not judges. At the beginning of his speech, he considered that he did not see them as judges regarding the trial process, and he continued to relate to the 1980 coup. I'd like to point out that a process of judgment is a very grave mistake, which is currently in existence, in relation to never and to the 1980 impact of a trial, which I find even the analogy -- even the analogy is unbearable. Turkey just got out of an election yesterday. WHAT will the EC PARTY fear after a spectacularly successful election in the near future? I find that hard to understand. In fact, I think those who use the word "fearful" the most are afraid of themselves. And then I'll say, "When we hear the need to look again -- what we're talking about -- what we're talking about -- we're actually talking about a contract with Qatar about preventing tax exemption, tax exemption." I mean, at least hearing one relevant sentence when we're talking about it, I think it's the right of this Assembly. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit02spe0132par0526	Thank you. Guys, I'm taking a ten-minute break from the merger.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0132par0001	I now open the Third Session of the 40th Union of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey. We continue the talks of Law Proposal 27. Commission? He's in position. Talks were kept on behalf of groups on article 1. On behalf of the Republican People's Party Group, it belongs to Eskişehir MP Utku Çakırer. Here you go, Mr. Cacharouser. [[Applause from CHP rows]] Your time is ten minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0133par0012	Mr. President, dear lawmakers, I salute our High Council. Before I begin my speech, I remember the 2nd President of the Republic of Turkey and the great statesman Ismet Inönou, who brought our country into multi-party democracy, with gratitude and gratitude in the 45th year of its departure. My dear friends, we, the Republican People's Party, feel that this agreement would serve the economic interests of our country, the interests of our business people, the well-being of our fellow citizens, so we did not oppose it during negotiations with the Foreign Commission, and we also maintain that view here. However, the fact that we are not opposed to the agreement does not mean that we approve and approve of foreign policy, which is the sole rule of the man who established the separation of forces and is unable to protect our national interests. Consider the policy on Qatar: My dear friends, we have experienced the reflections of recent closeness with Qatar. We've seen bilateral agreements passed through our Foreign Affairs Commission. Only in the 26th term did the 8 agreements with Qatar pass through the Commission, some of which were accepted by the General Assembly. Of course, we favour good relations with the world, especially our neighbors and countries in the region, but I would like to point out that the momentum in our relationship with Qatar is parallel to the civil war process in Syria. My dear friends, Qatar, are the biggest supporters of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Middle East and of all other organisations associated with it. In Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood of Egypt supports Hamas, also known as the terrorist organization of the United States and the EU, and Libya supports Libyan Dawn, which is also close to the Muslim Brotherhood. Qatar's biggest partner in the support of ihvan, and his partner is the power in Turkey. This partnership has shown itself in Syria at most in recent years. In Syria, two countries mobilized to replace Assad's regime with Muslim Brothers; money, logistical support, manpower, weapons, all of them, all of them, but all of them, went to civil war with gasoline in Syria. That's what we're all paying for today as a nation. Another ideological-based alliance arose in the region when such a passionate closeness arose, and Saudi Arabia, Egypt, and the Arab Emirates side by side. During their crisis with Qatar (Katar) on the grounds that the Gulf countries supported terrorism last year, Qatar was Turkey's biggest supporter. Under the embargo, Turkey provided the basic food supplies for Qatar, such as milk, water, and not enough, it became a guarantor for Qatar's security. We set up military bases in Qatar, and made a fast deal in Parliament, and sent our soldiers there. Qatar Emiri left this blockade with minimal damage thanks to Turkey's support. At what cost did we do that? Look at what we said in this Parliament in those days: this military base agreement is open. We said, "It's unclear how long our military will stay." We said, "Look, such a base could damage Turkey's good relations with its neighbours, it could cause regional tension." As a matter of fact, that's exactly what we said. During the Gulf crisis, the removal of the Turkish base was at the beginning of the conditions the countries imposed on Qatar. We said it that day, and we say it today; it is not the duty of Turkey to protect Qatar (Katar) or any other country, but to guard it, not to do so. This can't be a fundamental foreign policy. And what were those who ruled this country doing when we as the Republican People's Party issued historical warnings? Look what happened next: Qatar Emiri gave President Erdogan an ultra luxury VIP plane to show his gratitude, a Boeing 747 Jumbo Jet. It's said to have seven bedrooms, two private rooms, conference rooms, a small hospital. My dear friends, this plane was actually for sale -- it cost $2.5 billion unequipped, it cost $4 billion equipped. Our congressman, Gamze Taşcier, presented it with his papers. The same company later sold the plane. He also made a statement, but the presidency insisted that it was not bought. While Qatar was giving us a plane, President Erdoğan said: "We are friends with Qatar. We are friends with Qatar. He thanked Qatar for his strong support and solidarity. Yeah, that's what Qatar said, so Qatar was our friend on a dark day, but there's also one thing that's been tried to be overlooked, forgotten, and I'd like to bring that to your attention today. A strategic agreement was signed in the Eastern Mediterranean. US oil company Exxon signed an agreement with Qatar state oil company on April 5, 2017. With who? With the Greek Cypriot administration. They agreed with the Greeks for the search and drilling rights of natural gas in part 10 in the so-called southwest of Cyprus Island. My dear friends, what's the big deal? If he agreed, he agreed. We can't call it a deal, it's a bad deal. What's wrong with it? One of the main parameters of Turkish Cypriot policy is that natural gas sources around the island of Cyprus belong not only to the Greek side but also to both sides. Without a permanent solution to the Cyprus issue, there can be no permit for those who have been here without the consent of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus. Yes, that is the basic foreign policy of Turkey. That's what we call it, but the deal was signed with this fundamental principle inadvertently, and it came into effect on November 15th. Exxon announced the deal, and he never hid that his partner was Qatar Oil Company. So, Ankara, the palace, what did the State Department do against it? I didn't personally see the president's statement on this matter. The State Department made an interesting statement. It says that the start of natural gas search activity on the off-spot of Cyprus is not contributing to the stability of the region. It can also change certain delicate balances in terms of the solution of the problem. The foreign spokesman also warns the companies, saying: "This is how we repeat our warning to the companies involved in these single-sided search and extractions of the Greek Cypriot island, that sharing the natural resources of Cyprus is a matter of the essence of the Cyprus issue. Did you notice anything missing from this statement? Yeah, there's one thing missing, and he's naming Exxon, but he won't name his partner, and his partner Qatar Oil won't mention it, not even Qatar's name is mentioned, as if Qatar's not involved, but there is, as a government company. That's the way it is now, but we're friends on the black day. But that's how our dark-day friend can sell Turkish Cypriots and their brothers. Now, I'd like to make two calls from this bench. Vice President Fuat Oktay said during the budget talks: "This plane has been given as a grant and a gift, no protocol has been made." He said one more thing: "This plane has not yet been processed in the inventory. This plane is not just in the name of my own person or party, but in these days of crisis, I am making this call on behalf of all our citizens who are uncomfortable with such a grant; since there is no payment, there is no protocol, there is no procedure yet, so return this plane to Qatar. The Republic of Turkey does not need a flying palace, even if it is a gift or a gift. These people have the power to buy the planes of their executives representing the state of the Republic of Turkey with their own taxes, with their national budget. As a matter of fact, we have a VIP fleet of 12 planes for that purpose. Believe me, in Turkey, the seven-bedroom plane went back. There's no one to worry about. If we return the plane, what will become of our relations with Qatar? I also called during budget talks: the presidency or the State Department must return this plane by conveying the very right expectations of our people. What is the expectation? We would like to hear from our Qatari brothers and sisters who have been protecting our homeland: "We are giving up this agreement with the Greeks until there is a permanent solution to the security, rights, law of our Turkish Cypriot brothers and sisters. We expect Qatar to recognize the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, the independent state established by the Turkish Cypriots. In fact, the most costly solution for Qatar is that he doesn't need to donate a flying palace to show his gratitude to Turkey. For the Turkish people, the people will never forget that Qatar would take the lead in the world by recognizing the Turkish Cypriots. Qatar would be a real black-day friend to the entire Turkish nation, not only for a party, but for a party, if he were to call off this dirty deal. My dear friends, in the final part of my speech, I'd like to mention a significant loss in our foreign policy, which is that we don't have ambassadors in very important regional capitals for Turkey. In fact, this is the result of a kind of euphemism with Qatar. Look, we don't have ambassadors in Cairo, we don't have ambassadors in Damascus, we don't have ambassadors in Tel Aviv, we don't have ambassadors in Jerusalem. Yes, not in Jerusalem, my dear friends. How can we defend the rights and the law of the Palestinian people when we don't even have an ambassador there? Someone's blowing up now, criticizing the Republican People's Party's policy on Palestine, but I'd like to remind you that the first official relationship between Turkey and Palestinians was thrown out by the president of the Republican People's Party and Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit. The official opening of the FCÖ office in Ankara took place on October 5, 1979, during the Prime Ministership of the late Ecevit (Ecevit). Turkey thus became the first NATO member to welcome the FKÖ. Arafat came to Turkey for the first time to open this office. The late Ecevit, who greeted him as Prime Minister, said, in fact, for all our people...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0134par0028	Mr. Cakirözer, let's finish, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0133par0029	I'm finishing, Mr. President, thank you. In fact, the deceased Ecevit hailed Mr. Arafat. As Ecevit did so, he was against the United States, against Israel, but he didn't hold back a millimetre. Now, you cannot have ambassadors in Jerusalem, you cannot go to Gaza. Were you able to lift the embargo? As for those who did not leave ashes in the barbecue, when it came to their alliance with Israel, by God, there was no reduction, no reduction. We call it the rights of the oppressed Palestinians, let's call off the Blue Marmara Agreement. We say, "I'm afraid you're not listening to any of them." It is very important for a healthy foreign policy, for a foreign policy to protect our national interests, to have ambassadors in regional countries, important capitals, to protect our national interests, to protect Turkey's interests. I salute you all with such thoughts.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0135par0035	Thank you. Talks on Article 1 have been completed. I submit the item to your votes: Those who don't agree... Article 1 is accepted. Before we go to the 2nd article, there are demands of words according to the 60th article, and I will try to meet them. Mr. Yilmakaya, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0136par0042	Thank you, Mr. President. Gazi city Gaziantep killed 6,317 children, with no help or support from anywhere, if I die, I will become a martyr, if I stay, I will be a veteran. Gaziantep has made a mark on Turkey's history with the spirit of a national struggle, and has always been a defender of independence, freedom and democracy. I sincerely celebrate the day of the salvation of all my Gaziantep, who had an important place in the victory of our national struggle for salvation of our nation, on December 25th, with the right pride and pride of being a Gaziantepian on the 97th anniversary of the liberation of the enemy's occupation, for the importance of our nation's great struggle for independence. On this occasion, I remember once again the glorious martyrs and veterans of the great epic that honored the nameless heroes of the national struggle, especially Gazi Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, Ismet Inönu and their comrades in arms...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0137par0048	Mr. Rootsal...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0138par0050	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, about 500,000 teachers are expected to be appointed in our country, where 91 education schools are located. These teachers demand at least 40,000 appointments in February, with a fair distribution of quotas to KPS points, not contractual, staffed, not interviewing, and majors. Furthermore, for our disabled teachers who have successfully completed their schools despite all obstacles, the quota for 500 is extremely low. These disabled teachers will not be able to be appointed despite high scores. This requires a fair distribution of quotas for disabled teachers. Again, family integrity must also be established by the right of appointed teachers who have to work away from their family, whose spouse, their family, and their children, who are homesick. We call to the Minister of National Education: No ministry of national education, no ministry of national persecution, let the teacher be comforted and valued.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0139par0055	Mr. Tujaki...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0140par0057	Thank you, Mayor. The Ministry of National Education issued a statement on November 15th, announcing that it would distribute 3,600,000 textbooks to 3,600,000 students in areas controlled by the Fırat Shield and Operation Olive branch in northern Syria. The ministry says it will send these books with AFAD logistical support to El Rai, on Syrian territory across the district of Elbeyli. The statement says Turkish teachers will distribute Arabic grammar, science, English, mathematics, physics, chemistry by drafting books; Afrin, Cerablus, El Bab, Azez and Mare districts. Three weeks ago, as a member of the National Board of Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, I asked the Ministry for a copy of the books, my advisors call twice a week and remind me of them, but there's no improvement. I'd like to ask you, what is the ministry hiding? Can't the books that go to El Baba, Azez, Mare, Afrin, Cerablus, come to Parliament from the Ministry of National Education?
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0141par0060	Mr. Eyeball...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0142par0062	Thank you, Mr. President. A few days ago, a citizen named Kadir Sakçı was killed for speaking Kurdish and his son was injured. In order to clarify the case, our MP Mensur Iş, Co-Chair Eren Keskin of the Human Rights Association, members of the Commission against Racism and Segregation, visited the family, and the family's testimony is that he was killed because he said he was Kurdish, but the Governor of Sakarya considers the case as a forensic incident. I would like to address all of our people, the community, and all of you, together we can prevent the consequences of this segregation, otherizing, polarizing political climate. It's time for all of us to say I'm Kurd.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0141par0064	Thank you. Mr. Özkaya...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0143par0067	Mr. President, thank you. Last week, false accusations were filed against our aunt who died in a fire in Afyon Dinar. For the first time, Roman brothers and sisters were built into 110 private dwellings within 300 square metres of the land in 2011. The dwellings were all made by Roma and the Prime Minister at a discount of more than 30 per cent. Our aunt Hanife Runzar was given a private dwelling in 2012, but she didn't buy it by selling it to a third person from the notary, and her son didn't buy the dwelling, so he came to the area of the slum where the slum was. Therefore, we expect both our government and our governor's governor's administration to give all the help we have and all the needs they need from the Social Aid Foundation, but we expect our governor, our governor, our governor, not to be falsely accused, but to apologize to the concerned public official. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0144par0070	Mr. Nightingale...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0145par0072	Mr. President, thank you very much. I have taken this statement from the HDP desks on the assessment that the MP had made regarding the fatal incident that took place in the Ditch district of Sakarya. Dear MPs, I also felt the need to take this promise as someone who knew the situation very well as a Sakarya MP and a man who was born in the Ditch, a man who was from the Ditch. Sakarya is a province in Turkey that represents the consciousness of being a nation, the spirit of living together in unity, in its best form, living within itself. There have been many attempts at provocations in Sakarya, but everyone living in Sakarya is connected to this nation, to this country, and is a follower of all the values that make this country. This is a province in the east, west, south, north, Ottoman balance, from the Caucasus, Balkans, from the country, from many places, where people are together, related, quote, quote, quote, quote. At this point, we will never, ever accept this kind of assessment regarding Sakarya. This is not the case of a murder, and this is not a murder of ethnic origin or differentiality. The perpetrator of the murder was the result of a sudden encounter when he went in there with another person of interest in the case of a suspect. We know the perp, we know the suspect, we know the family who died, we know the victim.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0146par0077	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0145par0078	Both families are people who have lived in our Ditch, in the Ditch, for many years, in good association, but they do not know each other. They faced each other at the time, and there was absolutely no ethnic debate, and that is not the case in the Ditch. I condemn the abuse of the matter. Nobody sunbathe in the shade. From here, from Sakarya, such material does not come to anyone. The statement made by the Anadolu Agency has also been shared with the public yesterday. I'd like these statements to be based on. My respects to all of you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0147par0081	Here you go, Mr. Bilgen.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0148par0083	Mr. President, we don't want any difference to turn into a conflict, a hate speech and a hate crime, but in the past, unfortunately, there are bad, bitter examples. With these painful examples, we are never in an approach to accusing a city as a whole, but we are closely monitoring the attempts to intervene in the details of the case, to alter the testimony. We both don't want to take too long to discuss this issue in terms of family safety and somehow not becoming a new tension, but we're sensitive to the fact that some of the bad cases that have happened in history turn into sparks, turn into greater tensions, but in the detail of the case, we know very clearly that the person has a beef with the barista. The people who were killed were actually just trying to intervene, and he asks: are you Syrian? No, we are Kurdish. They answer, and then he starts shooting and killing. So if you want, if all the parties are supporting us, we'll do our part tomorrow to investigate the matter.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0147par0086	Here you go.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0148par0087	If all parties support it, we'll do our part tomorrow to investigate the matter, to establish a joint commission in the House. It's not our intention to raise tension, it's that these things never happen. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0149par0090	Your Excessive...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0150par0092	Thank you, Mr. President. Today (December 25th) has been five years since the terrorist group's low coup attempt against the nation on December 17th-25th. December 17-25 was the date of the cover-up of a network of betrayals that had been placed in the inside of the state for 40 years. Our leader, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, who made the AK PARTY and the AK PARTY that they couldn't beat in the chest, has been staged in a series of plots, plots, plots to overthrow our President, Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdogan. They wanted to do what they failed in the travel protests in the December 17th-25th coup, but the operation against the nation was again blocked by the will of the nation, without the traitors reaching their goal. We as the EC PARTY, under the leadership of our President, Mr Recep Tayyip Erdogan, say that we will always hold the trust of our nation, that we will never give the traitors an opportunity, that I salute the General Assembly.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0151par0095	Mr. Paylan...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0152par0097	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, it's Christian Christmas Day. I work as a Christian MP in the House. Look, Mr. President, Congresswoman Mebusan was on holiday on Christmas and Easter holidays as well as on Ramadan and the Victim's Holidays. We knew each other's holidays, we knew each other, and in those days we respected each other, we used to vacation the coven. We celebrated each other's holiday, all the holidays were known in the country. But look, where are we? We have Christian citizens back home, we have Christian lawmakers, and Congress works. I'm calling on our House to consider this situation, and I'm calling on the Presidential Court to consider it. At least in the coming holidays, as in the Muslim Ramadan and Victim's Holidays, I say that our House and our country should consider it. My respects.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0153par0101	Thank you. Mr. Gülaçar...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0154par0104	Let me make a brief assessment of the incident in the ditch. From the moment we found out, Fahrettin Sakçı, the elder of the family, called our brother, and then we went to his house to pay our respects. First, we pray for God's mercy on our brother who passed away, and for his son, Burhan Sakskım, and for the urgent and good health of our Lord. The killer may have been made to testify in this manner, but as far as we know from our own family, there is no hostility as to the family and the people of the region, who have lived in the Ditch for 30 years. But from social media accounts, it's as if the issue spoke in Kurdish, because of the Kurdish act of murder like this...
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0153par0106	Let's complete it, it was one minute, it's over, Mr. Gülaçar.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0154par0107	Sir, I'd like to ask you just one more minute to make the point.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0153par0108	Here, let's finish this, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0154par0109	Mr. President, in order to bring this matter to this point, we've been following the prosecutor's office, especially since the apocalypse has been torn up in social media accounts close to the PKK, in this sense that there will be sabotage, a different, new form of action in the Kurdish and Turkish brotherhood in the region. We're with our family till the end. We, Kurds and Turks, are brothers and sisters, and no power can break or break our brotherhood. I salute our coven.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0153par0112	Mr. Altay, please.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0155par0114	Thank you, Mr. President. At the time of the opening of the General Assembly, on the occasion of Christmas Day, we celebrated the Christian world of the world, and in private the Christmas Day of our Christian citizens at home. Mr. Paylan has made a point. We have three Christian MPs in our parliament that I know of. That is why we are discussing our demands on the 2nd and 3th amendments of the law proposal we are discussing. I hereby congratulate you again on Christmas Day, sir.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0153par0116	The group had congratulated the vice presidents at the opening this morning, and I must say, you weren't here, Mr. Paylan. Dear friends, I'm having you read article two: MADDE 2- (1) In the history of this Law publication, it takes effect. I submit the clause to your votes: those who accept... those who refuse... the substance is accepted. MADDE 3- (1) The President governs these laws. Those who accept Article 3... those who do not accept Article 3... shall be admitted to Article 3. Now, before we vote on the whole proposal, Mr. Nazır Jahangir Islam is demanding the tone of the game, as required by Article 86 of the Civil Code. Here you go, Islam. Your time is five minutes.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0156par0129	Thank you. Mr. President, my dear friends, I am a Sakaryan, so I studied the incident in the Ditch and called the family and offered them my condolences. I insisted on looking for a political side, getting confirmation from different locations, not a political incident, so I wasn't happy about it either, but at least I could find some consolation. An act of a sociopathic personality, a person who could kill me because I'm Bosniak, so to speak, a person who teases me to the right and to the left. The injured boy is fine now, he's discharged, so there's no life-threatening danger, I can tell you that. Yes, so, hopefully, I hope this will never happen again, but we must all support this wish with our politics. We are especially concerned about the case of Fatih Orange these days, the Metin Akpınar and Mujdat Gezen and the religious professor Mustafa Ozturk, and we observe that we have a real problem with freedom of expression as a society, which is fed by political power. Now, my dear friends, the meaning of the word is another matter: the word is the word, and the word is the word. We all have the right to answer and answer it freely when a certain idea is thrown or a certain claim is made, but more importantly, we have to accept the comment of the person who gives the comment, without being observed correctly or wrongly. I'm saying we have to, and I'm saying for that, it's a moral obligation in a sense. I don't want to stress the book here, so I want to go through the mind that binds all of us, but if there's a common book that connects us again, they hear the word and follow its beauty. There's another issue here, the rule of law. Look, it doesn't matter if a president who's protected by immunity tells people or people and doesn't get hurt, he doesn't get hurt, he doesn't get immunity, but the important thing is that the same words don't happen to a citizen when they're made by a citizen. That is the measure of the rule of law and the state of law, dear friends. Now, of course, we don't agree with content, even if it's a reference, like a coup, a threat, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. But I've watched Mr. Metin Akpınar. He's giving a number of warnings to the community on his own experience, that his tongue may have escaped a bit that way or that way, but I haven't picked up a threat from there, let me be honest. I'm more sensitive to blows than you are, and I'll tell you that, or I'm just as sensitive as you are. After all, dear friends, see, a wonderful reaction came to a comment by the theologian Mustafa Ozturk, in a book published five years ago. In fact, it's not really his comment, so go back to the old ulama, the ancient Islamic philosophers, and you can find the original interpretation of that interpretation, too. I don't want to take it too long, but mine was a surprise conversation, I'm aware of that. But in the end, we have to respect the rule of law and the state of law, the freedom of expression. My respects to all of you. Thank you.
tbmm-2018-12-25sit03spe0157par0138	[[Applause from CHP and HDP rows]] Thank you, Islam. Dear friends, the entire proposal is subject to an open vote. I submit to your votes that the open vote should be carried out by an electronic voting device: Those who don't agree... Sustained. I'll give you three minutes to vote. In the meantime, I'd like to request that members who can't get into the system ask the technical staff for help, but who can't get into the system, to deliver the ballots to the presidency within three minutes scheduled for the vote. I'm starting the voting process. [[A vote was voted on by electronic device]] Dear friends, the Tekirdağ MP Mustafa Şentop's Law Proposal is open to ratification of the Agreement through the Agreement to Avoid Double Taxation and Obstruction of Tax Trafficking between the Government of the Republic of Turkey and the Government of Qatar: ▪ Number of votes used: 280 [[x]] Thus, Proposal number 27 has been accepted and legalized. Good luck with that. [[AC PARTY APPLAUSE]] The issues on our agenda are complete. According to the decision taken, it is Wednesday (December 26th 2018) at 14 p.m. to discuss law proposals and other tasks from the commissions, respectively. I'm closing the meeting at 00.
